New Zealand 's cricket team has scored a morale-boosting win over Bangladesh in the first of three one-day internationals in New Zealand .
Despite Bangladesh 's highest total ever in a limited-overs match , the Kiwis were able to win the match by six wickets in Auckland .
Opening batsman Jamie How led all scorers with 88 runs as New Zealand reached 203-4 in 42.1 overs .
The score was in response to Bangladesh 's total of 201 all out in 46.3 overs .
Mohammad Ashraful led the visitors with 70 runs , including 10 fours and one six on the short boundaries of the Eden Park ground .
The win was encouraging for New Zealand , which has suffered disappointing losses in its recent tours of South Africa and Australia .
The second one-day international against Bangladesh is Friday in Napier .
Skier Marco Buechel of Liechtenstein has won his first World Cup downhill title on a snow-shortened course in Val Gardena , Italy .
Buechel finished the race in one minute , 27.99 seconds , just 0.02 ahead of Austrian Michael Walchhofer ( 1:28.01 ) .
Erik Guay of Canada finished third , 0.20 behind Buechel ( 1:28.19 ) .
It was Buechel 's second World Cup win ever - he also won a super-giant slalom in Germany two years ago .
American Olympic hopeful Bode Miller of the United States finished eighth and recaptured the overall standings lead .
Miller now has 442 points with Walchhofer second ( 420 points ) and Norway 's Aksel Lund Svindal third ( 417 ) .
Snow and strong winds delayed the start of the race by more than one hour .
The course was also shortened by more than one kilometer and several jumps were removed .
Two years ago , war broke out along Israel 's border with Lebanon .
The conflict known as the Second Lebanon War started after Hezbollah guerrillas attacked an Israeli patrol and seized two Israeli soldiers .
On July 14 , Hezbollah returned the bodies of the two Israeli soldiers in a prisoner exchange with the Jewish state .
No Israeli town was more affected by the war than Metullah , the closest Israeli town to Lebanon .
Jim Teeple recently visited the town where many residents say they want a lasting peace with Lebanon .
Iraqi police say at least three civilians were killed and nine wounded Saturday when a roadside bomb struck a vehicle south of Baghdad .
A police official said the attack occurred early Saturday in Iskandariyah , 60 kilometers south of Baghdad .
In central Iraq , the U.S. military says coalition forces captured two wanted individuals and three suspected terrorists Saturday during an operation northwest of Muqdadiyah .
U.S.-led forces also detained six suspected militants during another operation Saturday in Bayji , targeting an associate of al-Qaida in Iraq senior leaders .
The military says the targeted person is suspected of a logistics network responsible for supplying weapons and supplies to foreign terrorists .
He is also believed to have many contacts within the southern belt terrorist network , which facilitates the movement of foreign terrorists and suicide bombers .
The European Commission Sunday confirmed that the deadly H5N1 strain was found in a dead bird .
Turkish Cypriot authorities say they have quarantined a 10 kilometer area around the village where the dead bird was found and killed a large number of birds to stop the spread .
Authorities in the Greek Cypriot south say they have taken all steps to prevent the virus from spreading across the border .
Also Sunday , Hong Kong officials say they found an infected bird near the border with mainland China .
Bird flu has killed at least 81 people in East Asia and Turkey since 2003 .
The International Committee of the Red Cross is calling on Israel to allow Palestinians from the Gaza Strip to resume visits with relatives held in Israeli jails .
In a statement Monday , the Red Cross says Israel suspended the visits last year after Hamas militants took control of the Gaza Strip .
The Red Cross had been organizing the visits since 1967 .
The organization says that because the visits have been stopped , the families of more than 900 detainees have been deprived of direct contact with their detained relatives for nearly a year .
Red Cross officials say the detainees depend on the visits not only for psychological support but for material assistance such as clothing and blankets .
The Red Cross says that while it understands Israel 's security concerns , it strongly believes those concerns alone can not justify a complete suspension of family visits to detainees .
Four Palestinians were killed and at least 18 wounded in a violent feud between rival clans in the Gaza Strip .
A Hamas security force commander was shot to death Saturday in the early morning hours in the Khan Yunis refugee camp .
The Hamas military wing accused a rival clan in the Gaza Strip of ties to the killing .
The attack triggered a gunbattle that killed two members of the rival Fatah family and one bystander .
News reports say both factions say the killing was motivated by a family feud , and was not connected to the power struggle between President Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah faction and the ruling Hamas party .
The Hamas-led government condemned the violence , saying the Palestinian government is committed to a power-sharing agreement reached with the Fatah faction of President Mahmoud Abbas ealier this month .
Palestinian leaders are currently lobbying European countries to promote the unity government and end international sanctions .
South Korean news media say North Korea Saturday aired a pirate recording of the opening World Cup match between host South Africa and Mexico .
Yonhap news agency quotes South Korean Broadcaster SBS as saying the North Korean Central Broadcasting Service showed a recording of Friday 's game , despite its lack of broadcasting rights .
An official is quoted as saying SBS has World Cup broadcasting rights for the whole Korean peninsula .
The official said SBS will decide on measures after determining how North Korea obtained the footage .
Meanwhile , South Koreans nationwide celebrated the victory of their team in their opening World Cup game against Greece .
Despite rainy weather , fans crowded parks , squares and stadiums across the country to watch the game on giant screens and celebrate their team 's ( 2-0 ) win .
Cuba 's health ministry says U.S. filmmaker Michael Moore 's new movie , " Sicko , " will be good publicity for the Cuban health care system .
Health Minister Jose Ramon Balaguer told reporters in Havana Friday that Moore 's movie , screened recently at the Cannes film festival , will show the world the humaneness of the Cuban health care system .
Moore 's documentary , scheduled for U.S. release June 29 , is about problems in the U.S. health care system .
In it , Moore takes three rescue workers from the September 11th , 2001 terrorist attacks to Cuba for health care , while accusing the United States of failing to respond to their needs .
Cuba 's universal health care , the product of a communist government , is considered comparable to those of much wealthier nations .
Moore is under investigation by the U.S. government for possible violation of the U.S. trade embargo on Cuba .
THE members of the School Board in Doosnoswair being suspected of appointing female teachers for an improper consideration , the people elected a Board composed wholly of women .
In a few years the scandal was at an end ; there were no female teachers in the Department .
The United States ' top law enforcement official says the recent terrorist bombings in Britain and Egypt could be the work of al-Qaida .
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales cautioned that officials are still investigating the bombings , which together killed some 140 people .
But in an interview with CNN television , Mr. Gonzales said the July 7 attack on London 's transit system and the July 23 bombing at Egypt 's Sharm-el-Sheik resort both have the appearance of al-Qaida involvement .
Groups that say they are affiliated with al-Qaida have claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Sunday 's Washington Post cites intelligence officials and terrorism experts as saying that Osama bin Laden or his aides may have sponsored the two operations from afar .
The officials say the attacks fit into al-Qaida 's pattern of conducting multiple bombings against civilian targets that are designed to scare Westerners and shake the economy .
U.S Open women 's tennis champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium has defeated French player Nathalie Dechy to reach the finals of the FORTIS Championships in Luxembourg .
Clijsters reached the final in straight sets , 6-3 , 6-1 .
Sunday , the Belgian world number three takes on Germany 's Anna-Lena Groenefeld , a three-set winner over seventh seed Dinara Safina of Russia ( 6-4 , 5-7 , 6-4 ) .
Clijsters has won 25 of her last 26 matches this season .
She has played Groenefeld once before - earlier this year in Stanford , California - and beat the German player in straight sets .
Kenyan police have arrested several journalists and activists who were protesting a new media bill passed by parliament that would impose strict controls on the press .
Reports from the Kenyan capital , Nairobi , say the police broke up Friday 's protest , which took place shortly before President Mwai Kibaki was scheduled to speak at a celebration marking Kenya 's independence day .
The media bill was passed Wednesday and has been sent to President Kibaki for his signature .
The measure would set heavy fines and prison sentences for perceived press offenses , would allow government ministers to dictate content on broadcast media and would allow the seizure of equipment .
Kenyan and international media advocacy groups are urging Mr. Kibaki not to sign the bill .
The chairman of the Kenya Media Council , Wachira Waruru , called the measure a blow against freedom of the press .
Iran says it is determined to resume uranium enrichment whether talks with the European Union over its nuclear program succeed or fail .
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi told a weekly news conference in Tehran Sunday the government will continue to suspend uranium enrichment during the talks .
But he says Iran will not allow negotiations to go on for what it would consider an unreasonable period of time .
Iranian officials have made similar comments before .
Iranian and EU negotiators are due to resume talks in London on April 29 .
Last November , Tehran agreed to suspend uranium enrichment while it negotiated a settlement to its nuclear dispute with the European Union .
Europe and the United States are concerned that Tehran is secretly trying to manufacture nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear facilities will only be used to generate electricity .
Fighting has resumed in Uganda after the collapse of a cease-fire agreement designed to open the way to formal peace talks .
The Ugandan military says rebels from the Lord 's Resistance Army ambushed an army vehicle early Saturday , near the northern town of Gulu .
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni ordered the army to resume attacks against rebel forces after a temporary cease-fire ran out Friday night .
But the president also left open the possibility of future negotiations .
Both sides were expected to sign a wide-ranging truce on Friday , following a series of meetings this week .
But the deal was delayed after rebels asked for more time to study the proposal .
The Lord 's Resistance Army has been fighting to overthrow the Ugandan government since 1987 , displacing more than one million people in the north .
The rebels routinely attack civilians and kidnap children for forced labor as soldiers and sex slaves .
Insurgents have struck again in Iraq , this time assassinating a senior government official , as they try to derail next month 's national elections .
Police say unidentified gunmen killed the director of the Communications Ministry in a drive-by shooting as he headed to work Thursday , in Baghdad .
Meanwhile , the death toll from a bomb attack in the Shi'ite holy city of Karbala Wednesday , climbed to 10 dead and at least 30 wounded .
And Italy 's government says it is investigating reports that one of its nationals may have been kidnapped and killed in Iraq .
In a separate development , attorneys for ousted leader Saddam Hussein say he met Thursday , for the first time since his capture last year with a defense lawyer .
Investigative hearings of Saddam 's top lieutenants are to begin very soon , but the former dictator is likely to be among the last tried .
Increasing numbers of costumed urchins are sent to parties rather than door to door
Some religious families object to the holiday entirely , saying that it celebrates evil and the devil .
Increasing numbers of porch lights are left off in some neighborhoods , too - signaling that the household will not welcome trick-or-treaters - because the residents are annoyed by gravelly voiced beggars in frightening costumes who continue to come knocking , well into their teens .
And in a tight economy , some residents no longer want to go to the time , trouble , and expense of buying candy and decorating their houses for Halloween .
The upshot is that come dusk this Sunday night across America , little ghouls and make-believe starlets will be about .
Likely , though , not as many as last Halloween .
Malawi 's parliament has passed laws paving the way for the possible impeachment of President Bingu wa Mutharika .
A majority of lawmakers passed the legislation Tuesday outlining how to carry out impeachment proceedings .
Malawi 's constitution allows for impeachment , but until now no laws existed for how this could be done .
Mr. Mutharika 's opponents , led by members of the opposition United Democratic Front ( UDF ) , accuse the president of ignoring the constitution to set up his own party , and of misusing public funds .
President Mutharika quit the UDF party earlier this year after launching a major crackdown on corruption that targeted several high level officials of the party .
Meanwhile Tuesday , anti-corruption officials announced they have summoned former President Bakili Muluzi to answer questions about alleged graft during his time in office .
South Korea is resuming its rice aid to North Korea Saturday after nearly a one-year suspension , now that Pyongyang is moving to dismantle its nuclear program .
A ship with 3,000 tons of rice is to arrive in the North at the eastern port of Nampo - the first batch of 400,000 tons promised by South Korea .
Seoul suspended its regular rice aid after North Korea conducted missile tests last July .
A nuclear test followed in October .
South Korea resumed shipments of fertilizer and other emergency aid to the North in late March , but decided to withhold rice aid until Pyongyang began to carry out its February pledge to shut down its main nuclear reactor .
North Korea has relied heavily on international aid , particularly from South Korea , since the North 's economy was devastated by natural disasters and mismanagement in the mid-1990s .
A new government report recently released shows the nation 's poverty rate was virtually unchanged in 2007 .
The U.S. Census Bureau 's annual report also shows the number of Americans without health insurance fell last year - the first annual decline since the Bush administration took office .
But some economists have criticized the report , saying it paints an inaccurate picture of the U.S. economy today .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
A mild earthquake shook the capital of the United States Friday , though there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage .
The U.S. Geological Survey reported the quake measured 3.6 in magnitude , the largest quake in the Washington area in decades .
Officials said the quake 's epicenter was located just north of the nation 's capital in Maryland .
Asked at a press conference whether he felt the tremor , U.S. President Barack Obama laughed and said he did not .
But other residents in the area reported feeling a rumbling for several seconds .
A spokeswoman for the U.S. Geological Survey said the minor earthquake was the largest recorded within 50 kilometers of Washington since a database was created to track such activity in 1974 .
Christians around the world are observing Good Friday , which commemorates the crucifixion of Jesus .
Many Christians attend services Friday to pray and reflect on the execution of Jesus near Jerusalem nearly 2,000 years ago .
Christians believe Jesus returned to life on what is now observed as Easter Sunday .
Pope John Paul II - the leader of one billion Roman Catholics - has been limited in Holy Week activities this year as he recovers from a throat operation last month .
He will not lead public ceremonies today as he has in the past .
President Bush , a devout Protestant Christian , issued his Easter greeting Friday , saying the teachings of Jesus " continue to comfort and strengthen Christians around the world . "
Orthodox Christians commemorate the occasion next month .
A leading U.S. senator predicts that January will be a month of " historic transformation " in the Middle East .
In an interview with ABC television Sunday , Senator Joe Lieberman said this month will be remembered as the time Iraqis and Palestinians held elections and started becoming democratic nations .
Mr. Lieberman , who just returned from a trip to Iraq , said he came away encouraged that Iraqis will be able to hold elections despite ongoing violence .
The Democratic senator called the violence " only a small part " of Iraq 's reality , and said insurgents fighting U.S. and Iraqi security forces do not have popular support .
He said it would be a mistake to postpone Iraqi elections despite calls from some Sunni Muslim politicians to do so .
Iraq 's elections are set for January 30 .
Palestinians choose a new president on January 9 .
Afghan officials say at least 29 suspected Taleban insurgents have been killed in clashes with NATO and Afghan forces in two southern provinces .
Authorities in Zabul province say 18 Taleban rebels and one Afghan soldier were killed Wednesday when a group of Taleban attacked an army post .
In a separate incident in neighboring Kandahar province , NATO forces killed 11 Taleban militants who NATO says were planning an ambush .
Separately , a Canadian soldier who was wounded in a suicide car-bomb attack Tuesday in Kandahar city died from his wounds .
Three other NATO soldiers were wounded .
NATO officials say its troops killed one Afghan civilian and wounded another hours after the suicide bombing .
Troops fired on the two civilians riding a motorcycle then they did not heed calls to stop .
And , Afghan officials say two roadside bombs planted by suspected Taleban militants , also in Kandahar , killed three civilians and wounded one .
Police acting on a tip have arrested at least 17 people and seized a major cache of weapons near the Sri Lankan capital , Colombo .
Authorities say the weapons confiscated by police Saturday included grenades and other explosives .
Officials say the suspects were planning a major attack on the capital .
The find comes on the same day a bomb blast killed six soldiers and wounded several in the northern Jaffna peninsula .
The improvised device exploded as soldiers cleaned up the area after a failed attempt by Tamil Tiger rebels to capture the peninsula .
Meanwhile , the Tamil Tigers released a policeman who had been held for nearly a year after he strayed into rebel territory while pursuing a pedophile .
His release followed a request from Ulf Henricsson , the outgoing head of the team monitoring the 2002 ceasefire between the government and rebels .
President Bush has called for a diplomatic solution to the Iran nuclear crisis .
At the White House Friday , Mr. Bush said Iran must not be allowed to possess a nuclear weapon .
He said it is logical that a country that has rejected diplomatic options would be referred to the United Nations Security Council .
Mr. Bush made those comments after talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel , who said the international community should not be intimidated by Iran .
Iran has threatened to end cooperation with the United Nations nuclear agency if Tehran 's nuclear program is taken to the Security Council for possible sanctions .
Iran announced earlier this week it was resuming nuclear fuel research .
China 's U.N. ambassador said today that referring the matter to the United Nations might complicate the issue .
Russia has urged Iran to resume its moratorium on nuclear activities and cooperate with the U.N. nuclear agency .
Defending champion Andy Roddick of the United States and Croatia 's Ivo Karlovic have advanced to the finals of the Stella Artois grass-court tennis tournament in London .
Roddick , the second seed , defeated fourth-seeded Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic in three sets 6-3 , 2-6 , 6-2 .
After breaking Stepanek 's serve early in the first set Saturday , Roddick hit a slump in the second set before getting back on track for the victory .
The 22-year-old Roddick faces Karlovic , who scored a straight-set win over sixth-seeded Thomas Johansson of Sweden 6-4 , 7-6 .
The two meters , eight centimeter tall Karlovic fired 19 aces on his first serve in the one hour , 24 minute match .
Roddick and Karlovic have never met one another before in ATP Tour play .
The tournament is a key warmup for Wimbledon -- the third Grand Slam event of the season .
Iran 's new president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , declared at his swearing-in ceremony Saturday that the Iranian nation can not be intimidated .
Without directly mentioning the controversy surrounding his country 's pursuit of nuclear technology , Mr. Ahmadinejad told parliament that Iran would respect international norms , but would never surrender to what he called " illegal requests . "
In a nation where 70 percent of the population is under age 30 , Mr. Ahmadinejad pledged to tackle unemployment .
He also vowed to defend Iran 's independence and said , " if religion is weakened , our identity will be weakened too . "
A former revolutionary guard and Tehran mayor , the 49-year-old president is a religious conservative .
His arrival in office brings to a close President Mohammad Khatami 's largely unsuccessful eight-year attempt to liberalize the government .
President Ahmadinejad has two weeks to announce his Cabinet .
THE PIGEONS , terrified by the appearance of a Kite , called upon the Hawk to defend them .
He at once consented .
When they had admitted him into the cote , they found that he made more havoc and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could pounce upon in a whole year .
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease .
Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu is mourning the loss of the Roman Catholic leader , while saying the next pope should come from Africa .
The South African Nobel Peace Prize winner said Sunday he hopes cardinals will elect an African when they meet this month at the Vatican .
Also today , the head of Ethiopia 's Orthodox church , Abune Paulos , praised John Paul as a great man who spoke of peace among religions .
Nigeria 's President Olusegun Obasanjo expressed his condolences , noting the late pontiff promoted religious tolerance and democracy in the West African nation .
And African Union Chairman , Alpha Oumar Konare , said the pope was a great advocate for Africa and a moral authority for the world .
Pakistani forces with helicopter gunships Monday continued to pound Islamic rebel positions in the semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan , and the military says 19 pro-Taleban militants were killed .
The government says with the latest fighting , a total of more than 120 rebels have been killed in three days of fierce clashes in the remote North Waziristan area .
The military says five government soldiers were also killed in the fighting that began Saturday when militants attacked a security outpost in the region 's main town of Miranshah and seized several government buildings .
The army imposed a curfew in the town after re-taking the buildings .
The fighting came days after Pakistani security forces attacked a militants ' camp used to train terrorists .
More than 40 foreign fighters and tribal militants were killed in that raid near the Afghan border .
The White House said Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Bosnia and Herzegovina , Serbia and Kosovo later this month .
In a statement Friday , Mr. Biden 's office said the vice president will meet with the political leadership in all three countries , as well as U.S. officials and military personnel stationed in the region .
It said the vice president 's trip will take place the week of May 18 , and that further details will be released at a later date .
Israeli troops have killed three Palestinian militants in separate incidents in the occupied West Bank and the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip .
Israel 's military says troops entered the West Bank city of Tulkarm Sunday in search of two wanted militants .
It says soldiers opened fire at the men as they tried to flee , killing one and wounding the other .
Palestinian officials say the dead militant was loyal to the Fatah movement of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
The wounded man was taken to an Israeli hospital for treatment .
Earlier in the day , Palestinian medics said Israeli troops operating in central Gaza killed two Palestinian militants during an exchange of fire .
Palestinian officials identified one of the militants as an Islamic Jihad member , and the other as a member of the Popular Resistance Committees .
Niger 's electoral commission says it is delaying the country 's upcoming presidential election by nearly a month .
The commission said Tuesday that the election to restore civilian rule after a military coup earlier this year will now be on January 31 , 2011 instead of January 3 .
It is the second postponement for Niger 's presidential election .
In May a spokesman for the military junta set the election for December 26 , but election officials said they needed more time to prepare .
The military junta came into power in February , after ousting unpopular president Mamadou Tandja , who had refused to leave officer when his term expired last year .
I am not a believer in séances , but I went to one just to see what they are like .
The psychic was doing his thing and grinning from ear to ear .
I assumed his merriment was due to the fact that he was fooling a gullible public and gave him a poke in the nose .
You can probably guess the rest ...
I was arrested for striking a happy medium ...
Former world number one and Wimbledon tennis champion Maria Sharapova of Russia has withdrawn from next month 's Australian women 's hard court championships because of a shoulder injury .
Sharapova said in a statement that the shoulder strain forced her pullout from the January second to seventh event in Gold Coast .
The Russian star said she is not sure she will be ready to play in the Australian Open , the first major tournament of 2006 .
Sharapova reached the semi-finals in three of the four major tournaments in 2005 and won three tournaments on the WTA tour .
Her injury hindered her performance in the second half of the season .
The Aussie women 's hard court tournament will also mark the return of another former world number one player - Martina Hingis of Switzerland will play in the event and plans to play in the Australian Open beginning January 16 .
National Basketball Association center Yao Ming is raising money for victims of the May 12 earthquake in his native China , by holding a raffle for a trip to the Beijing Olympics next month .
Tickets for the raffle cost $ 2 ( US ) and can be purchased with a credit card on a special Internet site ( https://www.celebritiesforcharity.org/raffles/netraffle_main.cfm ) .
The winner will be announced July 21 , and will receive round-trip airfare from a U.S. city to Beijing , a seven-day hotel stay in Beijing , two tickets to the China-USA basketball game , $ 1500 dollars in cash , and a guided tour of the Great Wall of China .
Yao created a personal foundation in late June , saying its first projects would help children left homeless by the earthquake in Sichuan province .
Angolan health officials say the death toll in the country from the Marburg fever has reached 203 out of 221 registered cases .
Officials said Monday the hardest hit area is the northern province of Uige where 184 people have died from the disease that first appeared last October .
Meanwhile , medics treating Marburg fever patients are recommending closing down a hospital in Uige province because they say it needs to be disinfected .
Doctors Without Borders , a global relief organization , says this step is necessary to reduce infection risks in the hospital where victims of the fatal virus are being held in isolation .
The Ebola-like hemorrhagic fever spreads through contact with bodily fluids , and can kill rapidly .
The World Health Organization has sent in teams to remove bodies and trace contacts with infected patients .
China has named Donald Tsang Hong Kong 's acting Chief Executive after accepting the resignation of Tung Chee-hwa , the territory 's leader .
Mr. Tsang , previously Hong Kong 's second-ranking official , told a news conference Saturday he will not reshuffle the cabinet and will serve only until another leader is elected on July 10 .
The next Chief Executive will complete the five-year term to which Mr. Tung was elected in 2002 by a Chinese-sanctioned electoral college .
Mr. Tung , who is 67 , announced his resignation on Thursday , citing health reasons .
He rejected suggestions that China forced his resignation .
But in December , Chinese President Hu Jintao publicly reprimanded Mr. Tung for his performance , fueling rumors that China was considering a leadership change .
On Saturday , Mr. Tung was named one of several vice chairmen of a high-ranking Chinese advisory body .
Military officials in Nepal say Maoist rebels have abducted at least 220 villagers from several remote mountainous districts in the western part of the country .
The officials say that on July 31 , the rebels took away more than 150 women from four villages in the Bajura district , and 70 people from several villages in neighboring Accham district .
The condition and whereabouts of the villagers are unknown and the motive remains unclear .
But Maoist rebels are known to take hundreds of villagers to their rallies and possibly try to recruit them to fight government troops .
The rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace the constitutional monarchy in the world 's only Hindu kingdom with a communist state .
More than 11,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
The African Union says a Senegalese soldier was killed Friday when unknown gunmen ambushed an AU patrol near the Sudan-Chad border .
Khartoum and Sudanese rebels are blaming each other for the attack , which targeted a group of Senegalese soldiers patrolling the Darfur region .
Ten other soldiers wounded in the attack were evacuated to a local hospital for treatment .
The assailants stole an AU vehicle , using it to flee the scene .
The incident comes just days after cross-border raids on three Chadian border villages killed nine civilians .
Chad 's government has repeatedly accused Sudan of supporting rebel activity along the border .
Sudan has denied any involvement with the rebels .
Tensions have risen between the two nations since Sudanese rebels attacked the Chadian town of Adre last month .
After the attack , Chad said a " state of belligerence " existed between it and Khartoum .
A Philippine army general says search teams have found the body of a U.S. Peace Corps volunteer who went missing 10 days ago .
Major General Rodrigo Maclang said Wednesday rescuers found Julia Campbell 's body partially buried near the northern mountain town of Batad .
He said her feet were sticking out of the ground .
Police have not said how the 40-year-old died , but said they are conducting a criminal investigating into her death .
Authorities have dismissed the possibility that she had been kidnapped by communist guerrillas .
Campbell was last seen April 8th , when she began a hike near the town of Banaue in Ifugao province , north of Manila .
She had been teaching English in the town of Legaspi for the past two years .
She also worked as journalist , with articles published in The New York Times newspaper , Starmagazine and a number of media Web sites .
Romanian authorities are reporting new cases of bird flu in remote villages in the southwestern part of the country .
Officials say they have ordered the slaughter of more than 8,000 chickens , after determining that they were victims of an H5-type of bird flu .
They say samples are being sent to a laboratory to determine if the infected birds contracted the highly dangerous H5N1 strain that has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
Romania is located on a major flyway for migrating wild birds , and it was the first country on the European mainland to detect a case of the deadly strain .
Meanwhile , the European Parliament has approved measures to deal with a possible crisis .
These include creation of an improved early warning system and a coordinated emergency plan in the event of a pandemic .
Italy says it will campaign at the United Nations for a global ban on the death penalty after images of the hanging of Iraq 's former dictator shocked people worldwide .
Prime Minister Romano Prodi said Tuesday that his government will use Italy 's new seat in the U.N. Security Council to push for a " universal moratorium " on capital punishment .
Italy joined the council on January 1 for a two-year term .
Italian politicians of all political affiliations expressed disgust at Saddam Hussein 's execution .
Iraq 's government reacted by accusing Italy of hypocrisy .
It cited Italy 's 1945 public execution of fascist leader Benito Mussolini .
Partisans killed the dictator and hanged him upside down in a Milan square .
More than 80 U.N. member countries signed a non-binding declaration against the death penalty in December .
Italy and all other European Union countries do not permit capital punishment .
Britain 's Prince Charles and his wife Camilla have arrived at the White House , where they will have lunch with President and Mrs. Bush Wednesday , on their first U.S. visit since they were married in April .
The Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall will also be the guests of honor at a state dinner at the White House later in the day .
From Washington , they will travel to New Orleans to meet with victims of Hurricane Katrina .
The royal couple spent the first day of their weeklong trip Tuesday in New York City , where they visited the site of the World Trade Center and dedicated a memorial to the 67 British victims of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
Witnesses say a top Palestinian bombmaker for the militant Islamic Jihad group was killed late Sunday in an Israeli missile strike in Gaza City .
A second missile struck another car nearby , killing the head of a Palestinian squad linked to rocket attacks in southern Israel .
Friday , Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for firing rockets that wounded an Israeli infant and two adults in southern Israel .
Separately , Israeli helicopters fired missiles early Sunday at a building occupied by militants from the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
Medics said three members of the group were killed .
In other developments , Israel has agreed to release $ 54 million of Palestinian tax revenues it withheld after the militant group Hamas won Palestinian legislative elections last month .
Israel says the monthly transfers will be suspended if a Hamas-led government is formed , as expected .
Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair says there were British fatalities in the crash of a C-130 military cargo plane in Iraq Sunday .
In televised remarks , he paid tribute to those killed , but gave no further details or numbers .
A British officer said the military would not release any details about the crew until families had been contacted .
Rescue teams have been sent to the crash site north of Baghdad .
The C-130 aircraft was traveling from the Iraqi capital to Balad when it went down .
There was no word on the cause of the crash or how many people were on board , but news reports say wreckage from the plane was spread over a large area .
The C-130 Hercules is a widely-used aircraft that can be configured to carry heavy payloads or as many as 128 troops .
Five former members of a Serbian paramilitary unit , the Scorpions , have gone on trial in Belgrade on charges they played a role in the massacre of up to eight thousand Muslims after the 1995 Serb capture of Srebrenica .
The first of the accused to testify , Scorpions commander Slobodan Medic , denied any knowledge of the crime .
But he confirmed his unit was in the area and said could not control all his men 's actions .
Serbian authorities arrested him and the four others , Aleksandar Medic , Branislav Medic , Pera Petrasevic and Aleksandar Vukov , after prosecutors at The Hague tribunal showed a videotape in June at the trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic .
A sixth suspect is on trial in Csatia on similar charges .
The tape shows the defendants executing six men captured in Srebrenica , an enclave in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina which the United Nations had declared a Muslim safe area .
A suicide attack in southern Afghanistan has killed five policemen and wounded at least three others .
Tuesday 's bombing in the Spin Boldak district of Kandahar province near the Pakistani border targeted the convoy of a border police commander , who survived the attack .
Officials say the attacker was riding a motorcycle when he detonated his explosives outside of the police headquarters .
In other news , NATO reports a Canadian soldier with its International Security Assistance Force was killed and four others wounded in the Panjwayi district of Kandahar on Monday .
Elsewhere , a head-on collision of two buses killed at least 32 people Monday on the main road linking the capital , Kabul , and Kandahar city .
At least 35 other people were injured .
South Korea says it will strengthen background checks on North Koreans seeking asylum in the South .
South Korean Deputy Unification Minister Rhee Bong-jo says the measures are intended to prevent criminals or ethnic Koreans pretending to be from the North from entering the country .
Mr. Rhee also said South Korea plans to cut financial subsidies to North Korean defectors starting next year .
Defectors currently receive a payment of $ 26,500 on arrival .
Mr. Rhee says Seoul plans to increase subsidies for job training for the defectors in an effort to help them adjust .
South Korea says at least 1,850 North Koreans have defected to the South this year .
U.S. officials in Venezuela say supporters of President Hugo Chavez burned a U.S. flag , set tires on fire and surrounded a building that the American ambassador was visiting Wednesday , temporarily trapping him inside .
Officials say Ambassador William Brownfield was stranded for at least two hours as the demonstrators gathered outside , chanting anti-U.S. slogans .
No injuries were reported during the protest .
The incident took place days after a Venezuelan newspaper printed an interview with Ambassador Brownfield , who said Washington is concerned over Venezuela 's growing ties with Iran .
Venezuela 's government often clashes with the United States .
President Chavez recently criticized President Bush , following a White House report which called Mr. Chavez a demagogue .
Although relations between the two countries are tense , Venezuela is still a key supplier of oil to the U.S. market .
India 's cricket team has scored 365-5 by the close of play on the first day of its third and final test match against Pakistan in Bangalore .
Yuvraj Singh and Sourav Ganguly both had centuries for the home side , with Singh blasting a career-best 169 runs while Ganguly had an unbeaten 125 .
Singh had 28 fours and a six in his time at the crease , while Ganguly hammered 20 fours .
Pakistani bowler Yasir Araft took three wickets while allowing 98 runs in 22 overs .
India last won a home series against Pakistan in 1979 , but leads this series 1-0 after winning the first test by six wickets .
The second test was a draw .
Iraqi authorities say the bodies of 18 young Shi'ite men have been found near the northern city of Mosul , where they were headed to work at a U.S. military base .
Police say the men , who were all from Baghdad , were found bound and shot execution-style .
Their bodies were discovered Wednesday , but police say the men were killed nearly a month ago .
Following a November U.S.-led offensive against insurgents in Fallujah , many fighters fled to Mosul .
Violence there has escalated in recent weeks , with dozens of dead bodies turning up .
Also Thursday , a U.S. Marine was killed in western al-Anbar province .
Meanwhile , in Jordan , Iraq 's neighbors are holding a conference that is expected to endorse the January 30 elections and urge Iraqis to defy boycott calls from some Sunni groups concerned about escalating violence .
China 's ministry of health says 34 people have died from a disease , caused by streptococcus suis bacteria , carried by pigs .
On Saturday , the ministry released new figures saying 174 cases of the illness , commonly called swine flu , have been identified .
That is an increase of 22 over Friday 's figure .
There were three additional deaths in the same period .
China 's official news agency Xinhua reports that one of the new cases came from Guangdong province near Hong Kong .
That would be the first case outside Sichuan province , where the outbreak began .
Xinhua says a slaughterhouse worker in Guangdong was treated and released from the hospital .
Those infected have handled infected pigs or infected pork .
China says there has been no human-to-human transmission of the disease .
German prosecutors say a second suspect in a failed plot to blow up German trains has turned himself in to authorities in Lebanon .
Germany 's federal prosecutor says Jihad Hamad , 19 , surrendered to police in the northwestern Lebanese coastal city of Tripoli .
German authorities say the suspect is one of two Lebanese men accused of planting suitcase bombs on trains in Cologne July 31 .
The devices failed to explode .
German police arrested the first suspect Youssef Mohamad el Hajdib , 21 , on Saturday .
He was detained in the German city of Kiel , as he apparently was trying to flee the country .
German prosecutors say they will arrange to Jihad Hamad extradited to Germany .
Both men are accused of belonging to a terrorist organization .
The Polish Defense Ministry says seven soldiers serving with the NATO-led mission in Afghanistan have been detained for the killing of civilians in the eastern part of the country .
In a statement released Tuesday , Polish military prosecutors say the soldiers were detained for violating international law , specifically the Hague and Geneva Conventions .
The Afghan civilians were killed during a firefight between the Polish troops and militants on August 16 .
Poland currently has 1,200 troops serving in Afghanistan .
Also Tuesday , Afghan President Hamid Karzai said corruption and embezzlement among government officials is on the rise .
He says officials should work with the Afghan people to serve the country without deceiving or exploiting it .
Mr. Karzai 's comments came during a speech to village elders in the capital , Kabul .
King Abdullah II of Jordan has vowed " zero tolerance " toward terrorists , as his government says al-Qaida in Iraq was behind Wednesday 's triple suicide attacks that killed 57 people .
The king told the official Petra news agency Saturday that Jordan would not tolerate anyone who distorts Islam to promote violence , and he vowed to bring the perpetrators of the attacks to justice .
Earlier , Deputy Prime Minister Marwan al-Muasher told reporters that three non-Jordanians carried out the Amman hotel bombings .
He says no women appear to have been involved in the attacks , disputing a claim attributed to al-Qaida in Iraq that a woman was among four attackers .
Amid reports that the suicide bombers were Iraqis , the king reassured the country 's large Iraqi population that Jordan would continue to be a safehaven for them .
American rappers Snoop Dogg and Sean " Diddy " Combs have canceled a tour of Britain after Snoop Dogg was denied a visa to enter the country .
Record company officials said the rappers are " disappointed and devastated " after five concerts across Britain were called off .
In April 2006 , Snoop Dogg , whose real name is Calvin Broadus , and five other men were arrested in a brawl at London 's Heathrow Airport .
They spent a night in jail .
The British Home Office would not comment on the present case , but it said the government can refuse entry to foreign citizens if there are concerns about their presence .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has tightened security within his administration after authorities discovered that details of his travel plans had been leaked to drug traffickers .
Monday 's announcement comes a week after Mexican federal authorities detained Nahum Acosta , the official responsible for organizing Mr. Fox 's visits around the country .
Mexican newspapers report he was caught on video meeting with a leading drug trafficker in Mexico City .
The developments have raised concern because drug traffickers often kill government officials .
But so far there is no evidence of an assassination plot against President Fox .
The Mexican president promised Monday to continue his fight against organized crime , repeating a vow to give drug traffickers " the mother of all battles . "
The governor of Iraq 's southern Basra province says there will be no cooperation with British forces unless Britain apologizes for Monday 's jail raid that was aimed at freeing two undercover British soldiers .
Mohammed al-Waili said the provincial council voted Wednesday to stop all cooperation until Britain meets three demands - apologize for the action , guarantee that it will not happen again and provide compensation for the damage .
Also Wednesday , hundreds of Iraqis demonstrated in Basra city against the British troop presence .
British troops raided the Basra jail , after they became concerned that two of their undercover soldiers had been arrested and handed over to a Shi'ite militia .
Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari has said the raid will not undermine relations with Britain , although it has angered his government .
He said he has ordered an investigation .
A leader of the Palestinian militant group Hamas has suggested the possibility of future negotiations with Israel through a third party .
Mahmoud al-Zahar Monday said " negotiation is not a taboo . "
The comments come two days before Palestinian parliamentary elections , as surveys show almost even support for Hamas and Fatah , the political movement of Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas .
Hamas is dedicated to the destruction of Israel and its military wing has been involved in scores of attacks .
Meanwhile , Israeli military officials say their troops will avoid entering Palestinian towns during the next few days so as not to interfere with the elections - unless it is necessary to foil attacks on Israelis .
Israeli troops arrested 24 Palestinians , including members of Hamas and Islamic Jihad , in raids overnight .
Medical professionals in India protesting against a caste quota have been joined by professionals from other fields , as demonstrations continue in the capital .
Thousands of professionals marched in New Delhi Saturday , denouncing a government plan to reserve more college seats for lower castes .
In addition to attending rallies , doctors and medical students who work in public healthcare facilities are on strike .
The work stoppage has lasted for about a week .
It is forcing thousands of hospital patients to go without treatment or to seek treatment at costly , private hospitals .
The government plans to more than double the percentage of places reserved for lower caste students in state-funded medical , engineering and other professional colleges .
Critics say the change will reduce the number of slots for students competing on merit and will hurt educational and professional standards .
Pakistani security forces say they have arrested a tribal militant commander suspected of involvement in the killing of three Chinese engineers in the southwestern province of Baluchistan .
Security officials say the suspect is a local leader of the Baluchistan Liberation Army and wanted in other attacks in addition to the February killings of the Chinese workers in the town of Hub .
On Tuesday in Baluchistan , unidentified gunmen killed a local politician and his bodyguard and injured a third man .
Police say Abdul Samad Achakzai and his bodyguard were killed when gunmen fired on their car as it drove through Kojak pass , northwest of Quetta , the capital of Baluchistan province .
The third man , identified as Sulaiman Shah , was seriously wounded .
Police say Achakzai was one of the leaders of a Pashtun ethnic political group , Pashtoonkhwa Milli Awami , that is linked to a local tribal feud .
Pope Benedict XVI said the current global financial crisis is the result of individuals seeking short-term monetary gains at the expense of the common good .
In his annual message published Thursday ahead of the Roman Catholic Church 's annual World Day of Peace on January 1 , the pope said the world is seeing a greater gap between the rich and poor .
He said the international financial system must be a stimulus for long-term growth and job development .
Pope Benedict also condemned international campaigns to reduce birth rates in poorer countries .
He said methods such as abortion do not fight poverty or help a country 's development but actually constitute " the destruction of the poorest of all human beings . "
Afghan officials say they have found the beheaded bodies of three policemen who disappeared Friday .
They say the policemen disappeared in Helmund Province .
Authorities blamed Taleban fighters for the killings .
In central Afghanistan , police killed four militants in a clash in Ghazni Province .
Officials say a firefight erupted after militants set off a bomb near a police vehicle , wounding four officers .
Officials in Afghanistan say almost 400 people , mostly insurgents , have been killed in an upsurge of violence since mid-May .
Delegates to an international conference on Afghanistan are using the second day of the London meeting to discuss the nation 's post-war problems with security , reconstruction and opium-traffickers .
On Tuesday , the conference unveiled a five-year plan that includes wiping out illegal armed groups by 2007 - and establishing a respected national army and justice system by 2010 .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai told the conference that eliminating insurgents and the opium production that supports them will be a difficult task .
He said it will take at least a decade to develop alternative sources of income for farmers and to totally eliminate poppy production .
Donor countries have pledged almost $ 5 billion in aid so far , with the United States promising $ 1.1 billion for the war-torn country .
Israel 's deputy prime minister says Israel has frozen plans to expand its largest West Bank settlement near Jerusalem .
Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told the Jerusalem Post that Israel still wants to build some 3,500 new homes in the Maaleh Adumim settlement , but will only move forward on the project with U.S. consent .
The expansion would have cut off east Jerusalem , claimed by the Palestinians as a future capital , from the West Bank .
The United States had criticized the move , saying it would violate the internationally-backed road map peace plan that requires Israel to halt settlement growth .
Slovakia 's roots can be traced to the 9th century state of Great Moravia .
Subsequently , the Slovaks became part of the Hungarian Kingdom , where they remained for the next 1,000 years .
Following the formation of the dual Austro-Hungarian monarchy in 1867 , language and education policies favoring the use of Hungarian ( Magyarization ) resulted in a strengthening of Slovak nationalism and a cultivation of cultural ties with the closely related Czechs , who were themselves ruled by the Austrians .
After the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the close of World War I , the Slovaks joined the Czechs to form Czechoslovakia .
Following the chaos of World War II , Czechoslovakia became a Communist nation within Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe .
Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and Czechoslovakia once more became free .
The Slovaks and the Czechs agreed to separate peacefully on 1 January 1993 .
Slovakia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 and the euro area on 1 January 2009 .
Officials in Iraq say at least 10 Iraqis have been killed and several others wounded in separate insurgent attacks across the country .
Security officials say gunmen ambushed a police patrol Saturday , in the Baghdad area , killing two officers and wounding at least two others .
Another policeman was killed in a separate attack north of Baghdad .
At least seven civilians were killed in other attacks elsewhere .
Separately , the U.S. military says one American Marine was killed in combat Saturday in western al-Anbar province .
And at least six coalition soldiers were hurt in other attacks in northern Iraq .
Meanwhile , there are reports of fighting between U.S. forces and insurgents in the flashpoint city of Fallujah , where U.S. and Iraqi forces launched a full-scale offensive last month to dislodge guerrilla fighters .
Zambia 's economy has experienced strong growth in recent years , with real GDP growth in 2005 - 10 about 6 % per year .
Privatization of government-owned copper mines in the 1990s relieved the government from covering mammoth losses generated by the industry and greatly increased copper mining output and profitability to spur economic growth .
Copper output has increased steadily since 2004 , due to higher copper prices and foreign investment .
In 2005 , Zambia qualified for debt relief under the Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative , consisting of approximately USD 6 billion in debt relief .
Poverty remains a significant problem in Zambia , despite a stronger economy .
Zambia 's dependency on copper makes it vulnerable to depressed commodity prices , but record high copper prices and a bumper maize crop in 2010 helped Zambia rebound quickly from the world economic slowdown that began in 2008 .
A high birth rate , relatively high HIV / AIDS burden , and market distorting agricultural policies have meant that Zambia 's economic growth has not dramatically decreased the stubbornly high poverty rates .
Immigrants and supporters of immigrants ' rights in the United States are planning a new round of demonstrations against immigration reform Monday .
Organizers of a march in the state of Arizona , which borders Mexico , say they expect as many as 100,000 demonstrators in the city of Phoenix as they march to the state capitol building .
Similar marches are planned across the nation , in the latest of a series of such protests .
The protesters are concerned about legislation passed by the U.S. House of Representatives that would make it a felony to be an illegal immigrant .
The legislation would also punish employers who hire illegal immigrants .
Police in Nepal have arrested at least 120 anti-government activists across the country who defied a ban on protests to show their anger at King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power last month .
In the capital , Kathmandu , police detained more than 40 protesters who gathered near the Central Secretariat building , shouting slogans such as " Down with autocracy , we want democracy . "
The rest of the people were detained in similar demonstrations in nine other cities across the Himalayan kingdom .
Monday 's protest in the capital was the largest since February first , when the king dismissed the government , declared a state of emergency and suspended civil liberties .
He said he did so to defeat an escalating Maoist insurgency that has claimed more than 10,000 lives since 1996 .
Russia has urged Iran to heed a U.N. Security Council resolution giving Tehran until the end of the month to suspend its sensitive nuclear activities .
In a statement Thursday , Russia 's Foreign Ministry said no further measures by the Security Council will be required if Iran heeds the call .
Russia , a permanent Security Council member , has resisted Western efforts to sanction Iran for its refusal to comply with nuclear demands .
The U.N. resolution , passed earlier this week , demands Iran stop enriching uranium by August 31st or face possible sanctions .
The Security Council acted after Iran failed to respond to an international incentives package Tehran would get by suspending enrichment activities .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Thursday Iran is still considering the incentives package .
The United States and its Western allies believe Iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
Leaders from around the world are in Warsaw to celebrate the 90th anniversary of Poland 's independence .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel took part in commemorations at the Tomb of Poland 's Unknown Soldier .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai , Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko are among the dignitaries who are joining Polish President Lech Kaczynski at a gala ceremony this Tuesday evening .
The Polish president has come under sharp criticism for failing to invite former president and Solidarity movement leader Lech Walesa to the formal Independence Day celebrations .
As Europe celebrates Armistice Day , marking the end of World War One , Poland also celebrates the re-establishment of its independence 123 years after Russia , Prussia and Austria divided and occupied the country in 1795 .
Afghan police say unidentified gunmen in northwestern Pakistan have kidnapped an Afghan government advisor as he visited relatives in a border town .
Authorities say an adviser to the Afghan Ministry of Rural Development , Akhtar Kohistani , was abducted from his in-laws ' house or wife 's relatives ' house in Chitral , Pakistan , late Sunday .
No group has claimed responsibility for the abduction .
The kidnapping is the second of a prominent Afghan in Pakistan in the past four days .
On Friday , the brother of Afghanistan 's finance minister was kidnapped in northwest Pakistan as he visited family members .
Officials say the businessman Zia ul-Haq Ahadi was abducted by unidentified assailants in a residential area of Peshawar .
And , in September , Afghanistan 's top diplomat to Pakistan was kidnapped in the same neighborhood .
He has yet to be released , and authorities are searching for him .
Researchers say it is safe for children to get the vaccine for measles , mumps and rubella without a risk of developing autism .
Ten years ago , another study concluded there might be a connection .
That study was later retracted , but the fear lived on .
Now new research provides strong evidence against any association .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
According to a news report , a certain private school in Victoria , BC , recently was faced with a unique problem .
A number of grade 12 girls were beginning to use lipstick and would put it on in the bathroom .
That was fine , but after they put on their lipstick they would press their lips to the mirror leaving dozens of little lip prints .
Every night , the maintenance man would remove them and the next day , The girls would put them back .
Finally the principal decided that something had to be done .
She called all the girls to the bathroom and met them there with the maintenance man .
She explained that all these lip prints were causing a major problem for the custodian who had to clean the mirrors every night .
To demonstrate how difficult it had been to clean the mirrors , she asked the maintenance man to show the girls how much effort was required .
He took out a long-handled squeegee , dipped it in the toilet , and cleaned the mirror with it .
Since then , there have been no lip prints on the mirror .
There are teachers , and then there are educators ...
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the United Nations is determined to get food to Niger , where severe food shortages have left an estimated three million people in need of aid .
Mr. Annan said during a visit to Niger , that his agency will work with the government and the international community to ensure all those in need get help .
The U.N. chief is wrapping up a two-day trip aimed at drawing international attention to Niger 's food crisis caused by drought and locusts .
Wednesday , he met with U.N. officials and aid groups in the capital , Niamey .
Tuesday , he visited the southern town of Zinder , one of the hardest-hit parts of the country .
The U.N. has been criticized for its slow response to the crisis .
It began appealing for aid last year but was largely ignored until recently .
Ukraine 's parliament has adopted a bill describing the famine of the 1930s as genocide .
Lawmakers Tuesday backed the measure , which calls the event genocide against the Ukrainian people .
An earlier draft had called it genocide against the Ukrainian nation .
Ukraine was under Soviet leadership at the time of the famine in 1932 - 33 .
The famine killed as many as 10 million people in what was then Soviet Ukraine .
Many analysts say the famine was not from natural causes , but instead was the result of government policies under Soviet dictator Josef Stalin .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko supported the bill .
On Saturday , he spoke in the capital , Kiev , to mark the 73rd anniversary of the tragedy , known in Ukraine as the Holodomor .
The U.N. food program says Kenya has allowed about 60 of its trucks to cross into Somalia after a wait of several weeks .
The World Food Program said Friday the trucks were allowed to cross the border this week following appeals from the international community .
The agency says there are still about 80 food trucks on the border and it hopes they will be allowed to cross soon .
Kenya closed its border with Somalia in January during fighting that pitted Islamic militia against Somali government troops and their Ethiopian allies .
However , the World Food Program says it was able to send food trucks into Somalia until recently .
The food that just crossed the border is intended for tens of thousands of people in Somalia 's Gedo region , where malnutrition rates are at emergency levels .
Piracy in Somalia 's waters has restricted the movement of relief vessels and forced aid agencies to use overland routes .
Ukrainian authorities say 19 people , including two children , are dead and at least 24 are missing after an explosion at an apartment building in the Crimean resort town of Yevpatoria .
Rescue teams are digging through rubble Thursday to find survivors from the blast that tore through the five-story building late Wednesday .
They say 21 people have been rescued so far .
Ukraine 's Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and President Viktor Yushchenko headed to Yevpatoria Thursday to meet with rescue officials .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev has offered to send naval personnel from Russia 's Black Sea fleet to help with the search efforts .
Authorities are working to establish the cause of the explosion .
Preliminary reports say it could have been caused by oxygen or acetylene cylinders that may have been stored in the building 's basement .
Gas explosions are common in Ukrainian apartment buildings , especially during the winter when residents turn up the heat .
A January 1994 Reuters News Service story on Manuel Oliveira 's ice cream shop in Merida , Venezuela , reported on his 567 flavors , including onion , chili , beer , eggplant , smoked trout , spaghetti parmesan , chicken with rice , and spinach .
He said some flavors fail ; he once abandoned avocado ice cream , and tossed out 99 pounds of it , because it was n't smooth enough .
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo has urged rich nations to give more aid to Africa as leaders from the Group of Eight gathered in Scotland for a summit focused on lifting the continent out of poverty .
Mr. Obasanjo told a London meeting of the Business Action for Africa that the continent is hopeful about decisions that will be made by G8 leaders on better trade access and increased aid to Africa .
He also welcomed a plan to wipe out $ 40 billion worth of debt owed by 18 of the world 's poorest nations .
Mr. Obasanjo said African nations are committed to democracy , good governance and ending corruption .
Before heading to Scotland for the summit , President Bush and Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen said increased aid to Africa must be tied to good governance and efforts to fight corruption .
The U.S. military says four Iraqi civilians were killed and 19 people , including two American soldiers , were wounded when a car bomb exploded near a U.S. military convoy in the northern town of Baiji Tuesday .
In a separate attack -- also in Baiji -- insurgents fired a rocket-propelled grenade at a U.S. tank , wounding one soldier .
Insurgents have recently stepped up their violent campaign - particularly in Iraq 's Sunni dominated regions - to derail the country 's January 30 election .
Major Sunni Muslim and Kurdish parties have called for a six-month delay in the vote .
But parties representing Iraq 's Shi'ite majority say the election should go ahead as planned .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says the election is a way for Iraqis to take a stand against the insurgents .
Swedish officials say an Iraqi-born Swedish citizen held hostage in Iraq since January has been freed .
The officials gave no details of Minas al-Yousifi 's release , and would not comment on whether a ransom had been paid .
Mr. al-Yousifi was kidnapped in the northern city of Mosul on January 28 by a group calling itself the Iraqi Vengeance Brigade .
His captors released two videos in which he pleaded for his release .
Mr. al-Yousifi lived in Sweden for 20 years , before returning to Iraq after Saddam Hussein 's ouster two years ago to lead Iraq 's Christian Democratic party .
Jurors in the Phil Spector murder trial were on June 5 shown a handgun found at the feet of an actress slain in the music producer 's mansion .
Los Angeles County sheriff 's detective Mark Lilienfeld displayed the Colt Cobra revolver , still covered in dried blood .
It was not registered and had never definitively been linked to the 67-year-old Spector , who denies shooting Lana Clarkson in February , 2003 .
He maintains the 40-year-old actress shot herself , and his defense attorneys are likely to argue the handgun belonged to Clarkson .
Lilienfeld also displayed photographs of a holster which fit the handgun , found in a bureau near Clarkson 's body .
He testified about Spector 's small arsenal of firearms , including ammunition of the same type which killed Clarkson .
Phil Spector rose to fame in the 1960s , crafting a series of classic pop singles using his " Wall of Sound " production technique .
From tsunami-ravaged Sri Lanka to the European Union , countries from virtually every continent have begun sending millions of dollars to the American Red Cross to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina .
In Washington Tuesday , State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said more than 90 nations have pledged financial assistance to those affected by the hurricane .
He said numerous nations , including Australia , China , India , and Kuwait , have sent large cash donations to the Red Cross .
Kosovo 's prime minister , Bajram Kosumi , saying his people will never forget how much America has helped the war-torn province , has donated $ 500,000 .
Bangladesh , a poor country that is frequently hit by monsoons , pledged $ 1 million in disaster aid .
Mr. McCormack said the American people can " take great heart " at the outpouring of assistance .
The Sri Lankan military reports new exchanges of artillery and mortar fire with Tamil Tiger rebels trying to break through government lines to capture Jaffna town and the northern Jaffna peninsula .
A Defense Ministry spokesman Major Upali Rajapakse said Sunday the rebels began an offensive nine days ago in an attempt to recapture the Tamil-majority area they lost in 1995 .
He said the military has successfully resisted the push .
Hundreds of rebels , government troops and civilians have been killed in the latest fighting .
The military says more than 80 rebels were killed since Friday , but there was no immediate reaction from the Tigers .
The United Nations has appealed to the warring sides to allow aid workers to deliver supplies .
The U.N. says refugees cut off by the fighting are running short of food and water .
El Salvador is preparing to send another contingent of 380 soldiers to Iraq .
Salvadoran President Antonio Saca said the troops will be participating in humanitarian activities such as building water systems and other infrastructure projects .
The French news agency , AFP , reports the latest troops will relieve an earlier contingent stationed about 100 kilometers south of Baghdad .
El Salvador is the only Latin American country which still has troops in Iraq .
The U.S. military says coalition forces in Afghanistan have killed 22 militants in a series of clashes throughout the country .
Officials said the coalition 's ground and air assaults took place Monday in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
They said one operation targeted a Taliban network in Kapisa province , killing 18 insurgents and one Taliban commander .
The military also said they killed another Taliban commander and two insurgents in two raids in the Kandahar and Zabul provinces .
Officials did not mention any casualties among coalition troops .
Violence has risen in Afghanistan as militants have made a comeback after their initial defeat following the U.S.-led invasion in 2001 .
The United States has transferred two detainees from its military prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , to other countries .
The Defense Department said Monday that Abdul Aziz Naji has been sent back to his native Algeria , while Abd-al-Nisr Mohammed Khantumani was resettled in Cape Verde .
A statement said the U.S. coordinated with the two countries ' governments to ensure a secure transfer .
The Guantanamo prison houses alleged terrorists , many held for years without trial .
The facility has been widely criticized by human rights groups .
President Barack Obama ordered the facility to be shut down within a year after he took office in January 2009 .
However , the deadline passed amid difficulty in finding places to put the detainees .
More than 40 other countries have accepted at least one prisoner .
The U.S. says 178 detainees remain at the facility .
China denies it is failing to keep the Olympic Games and politics separate after a Communist party official criticized the Dalai Lama at a torch relay ceremony in Tibet .
The Chinese foreign ministry Thursday said the official 's comments did not contradict China 's opposition to politicizing the Olympics .
The ministry said the comments were meant to create a stable environment for the Olympics .
Earlier Thursday , the International Olympic Committee urged the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Olympic games to make sure such situations do not happen again .
The IOC said it regrets that the political statements were made during the closing torch relay ceremony Saturday in Tibet 's capital , Lhasa .
Anti-Chinese government riots that erupted in Lhasa in March sparked a harsh crackdown by Chinese troops .
The crackdown led to chaotic demonstrations at several stops on the international leg of the torch relay for the Beijing Olympics that begin in August .
An Iraqi court has sentenced 11 men to death for the massive truck bombings in Baghdad last August that killed more than 100 people .
The court convicted the men of planning and implementing the August 19 attacks on the Iraqi Ministries of Finance and Foreign Affairs .
The attacks left more than 500 others wounded .
On Wednesday , a suicide bomber blew up a truck near a police station in Iraq 's western Anbar province , killing at least seven people and wounding six others .
The attack happened in Saqlawiyah , a town north of Fallujah .
Officials say at least two police officers and a young girl were among those killed .
Iraq is preparing for nationwide parliamentary elections in March , and officials have warned that insurgents trying to disrupt the vote could launch attacks as the election nears .
The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became Djibouti in 1977 .
Hassan Gouled APTIDON installed an authoritarian one-party state and proceeded to serve as president until 1999 .
Unrest among the Afars minority during the 1990s led to a civil war that ended in 2001 following the conclusion of a peace accord between Afar rebels and the Issa-dominated government .
In 1999 , Djibouti 's first multi-party presidential elections resulted in the election of Ismail Omar GUELLEH ; he was re-elected to a second term in 2005 .
Djibouti occupies a strategic geographic location at the mouth of the Red Sea and serves as an important transshipment location for goods entering and leaving the east African highlands .
The present leadership favors close ties to France , which maintains a significant military presence in the country , but also has strong ties with the US .
Djibouti hosts the only US military base in sub-Saharan Africa .
Wal-Mart , the world 's biggest retailer , has won another round in its struggle to keep its U.S. workforce from joining labor unions .
Friday , workers voted 17-1 to reject union representation at a tire store operated by Wal-Mart in Loveland , in the western state of Colorado .
Wal-Mart recently said it will close a Canadian store that voted for union representation and fire the store 's 190 member staff .
Earlier , the company eliminated meat-cutting jobs from its entire grocery operation after some butchers voted to bring in a union .
Wal-Mart has 1.2 million employees who operate 3,500 stores in the United States , Canada , China , Mexico , Brazil , Germany , the United Kingdom , and South Korea .
The United Food & Commercial Workers Union says it will continue efforts to unionize Wal-Mart .
President Bush is expected to head to Mongolia in the next few hours for the last stop of his Asian trip that also took him to Japan , South Korea , and China .
Mr. Bush is scheduled to use his visit - the first by a U.S. president - to thank Mongolia for sending 120 troops to Iraq .
Mr. Bush met with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Beijing to discuss reducing China 's trade surplus with the United States .
Following their talks , Mr. Hu pledged to reduce the trade imbalance through steps including currency reforms and increased protection of intellectual property rights - but he did not provide a timetable for doing so .
President Bush also urged Beijing to allow greater " social , political and religious freedoms . "
Mr. Hu stressed that Chinese people can exercise their rights through elections .
Funerals were held Tuesday for 17 people killed by a drunken tractor driver in Yuanshi county , a rural part of China 's northern Hebei province .
Local officials say 38-year-old Li Xianliang went on a killing rampage Sunday after arguing with his supervisor about money while drinking .
Li allegedly killed his boss and later drove an earth-moving vehicle down a village road , tearing through buildings and crushing cars along the way .
The Associated Press said desperate villagers tried to stop the driver by jumping on his vehicle .
It said a villager finally managed to stab him .
Li was later subdued and taken into police custody .
The Chinese government has been dealing with a growing number of killing sprees , often committed by men angered about their working conditions or family relations .
Some of the victims have included children .
Courts usually hand out death sentences to the perpetrators .
Witnesses in Baghdad say a bomb blast outside the Iraqi national journalists ' union has wounded the union 's leader and at least three other people .
Witnesses say the bomb exploded in central Baghdad Saturday as the union leader was saying goodbye to three guests .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Gunmen shot and fatally wounded the union 's former leader , Shihab al-Tamimi , in February .
The official died of his wounds four days after being ambushed in Baghdad .
The international Committee to Protect Journalists says Iraq has become the world 's most dangerous country for journalists since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 .
The United States invaded Iraq citing concerns about alleged weapons of mass destruction programs .
No such weapons were found .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh begins a two-day visit to Afghanistan on Sunday , the first by an Indian premier in nearly three decades .
Besides holding talks with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Foreign Minister Abdullah , Mr. Singh is scheduled to take part in a groundbreaking ceremony for a new Afghan parliament building being built with Indian help .
India is also involved in training Afghan armed forces and police , building roads , schools , hospitals , power lines , digging wells and supporting trade and services .
Wednesday , the two countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding under which India will upgrade all radio and television stations in Afghanistan .
Although India and Afghanistan share close historic and cultural links , the turmoil in the central Asian nation had not allowed an Indian prime minister to visit Kabul since a trip in 1976 by Indira Gandhi .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney accidentally shot and wounded a fellow hunter while hunting quail in southern Texas .
A witness to the shooting , Katharine Armstrong , said Mr. Cheney fired a shotgun late Saturday at a flying bird without realizing the other hunter was in the line of fire .
The injured man , 78-year-old attorney Harry Whittington , was taken to a hospital in Corpus Christi , Texas , where he was in stable condition .
He was hit with shotgun pellets in his right cheek , neck and chest .
Mr. Cheney visited Whittington in the hospital Sunday before his scheduled return to Washington .
The vice president , an avid hunter , was hunting on a large ranch , a place where he has hunted before .
Thailand 's cabinet has given the military permission to create a special regiment to bring an end to the growing unrest in the majority Muslim south .
Officials say the regiment will be stationed in the provinces of Narathiwat , Pattani and Yala , which have been racked by violence that has claimed the lives of more 500 people since last year .
Reports say the headquarters of the new regiment will likely be in Pattani .
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra says part of the new regiment 's task will be to develop relationships with the citizens in the south , including engaging in development projects and outreach activities .
Morocco has appointed 50 women to be state religious preachers in an effort to promote moderate Islam in a country struggling with radical fundamentalism .
The women will teach Islam and its practice but will not be able to lead prayers in mosques , an activity reserved for men .
The government says it hopes the new religious teachers will help balance the influence of radical clerics who have been drawing support from the residents of poor slums .
Moroccan authorities have been working to curb Islamic extremism since 2003 , when a suicide bombing ripped through Casablanca , killing at least 41 people .
King Mohammed has been promoting moderate Islam in the North African kingdom , which has been praised by the United States for its anti-terrorism efforts .
Voters in the Democratic Republic of Congo have overwhelmingly backed the new postwar constitution .
Election officials said Saturday that 83 percent of voters said " yes " to the draft document , with more than more than two-thirds of the ballots counted .
International observers have called the vote free and fair .
Once approved , the constitution will clear the way for parliamentary and presidential elections to be held by June 2006 .
Congo has been struggling to emerge from decades of instability and violence .
A five-year war that ended in 2003 killed some four million people .
The United Nations maintains its largest peacekeeping force in Congo .
The main shareholder of Russia 's giant oil firm Yukos is reported to have filed suit for compensation from the upcoming forced sale of the company 's top production unit .
The managing director , Tim Osborne , of the holding company Menatep told Russia 's Interfax news agency his group will take every possible step to defend its stake in the Yuganskneftegaz production unit .
This followed Friday 's announcement by Russian authorities that the unit will be sold next month in a court-ordered auction to collect billions of dollars in back taxes from Yukos .
Officials have set an $ 8.6 billion starting price .
An independent investment bank has valued the unit at $ 14 billion to $ 17 billion .
Yukos head Steven Theede has called the sale a government-organized theft to settle a political score .
The Kremlin described the moves against Yukos and its subsidiaries as part of a crackdown on corporate crime .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says it has released 85 Afghan prisoners after deciding they no longer posed a threat to their government .
Military spokeswoman Cindy Moore says the men were brought from U.S. bases to Kabul and turned over to local authorities during a closed-door ceremony at the Afghan Supreme Court .
She said the prisoners , who were captured during U.S.-led military operations against the former Taleban regime , were freed after pledging loyalty to the new government .
Afghan officials say the men have spent between two months and two years in custody on suspicion of a variety of crimes .
Sunday release comes less than two weeks after 17 Afghan prisoners were released from U.S. prisons in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Russian and Chinese forces have begun live fire-drills Tuesday in eastern China 's Shandong Peninsula , in the third phase of large-scale war games .
Nearly 10,000 troops from land , sea , and air forces of both nations are participating in the first-ever joint military exercise , dubbed " Peace Mission 2005 . "
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov is expected to arrive in China today to observe this latest phase .
Chinese media report the exercise involves firing with live ammunition by warplanes and military vessels as part of an amphibious landing on the Shandong peninsula .
The eight-day joint maneuvers began in the Russian port city of Vladivostok Thursday .
The United States is not attending as an observer , but says it is closely monitoring the drills .
Afghanistan 's fugitive Taleban leader Mullah Omar has rejected an offer by President Hamid Karzai to seek reconciliation , and vowed to step up attacks .
Mr. Karzai said Sunday he was willing to listen to what Omar had to say , but that the Taleban leader would first have to account for his actions .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban Monday rejected the offer , calling Mr. Karzai nothing but a mouthpiece of Americans .
Mullah Omar , in a message , repeated his call for jihad , or holy war , against the United States .
U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban from power in late 2001 , after they refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11th attacks on the United States .
Washington has posted a $ 10 million reward for Omar 's capture .
He and bin Laden are believed to be hiding in tribal areas along the Afghan-Pakistani border .
President Bush has called his Indonesian counterpart , Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , to discuss security and trade issues .
White House spokesman Tony Snow said Monday , the two leaders talked about United Nations Security Council efforts to confront Iran 's nuclear program .
The two presidents also expressed hope for a positive outcome to talks by trade ministers from developing countries in Jakarta later this week .
Indonesia is a new non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council .
A World Health Organization lab in Indonesia has confirmed that two children have died from bird flu , raising the nation 's official death toll from the virus to 22 .
The Indonesian health ministry says a 12-year-old girl died March 1 , and a three-year old boy died last month from the bird flu virus .
Both were from Central Java province Meanwhile , Serbian health experts Thursday confirmed the republic 's first bird fatality due to the virus .
A wild swan was found dead last week near the border with Croatia .
Officials say tests run on the bird show it tested positive for the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Bird flu has spread from Asia to Europe , Africa and the Middle East over the past several months .
It has killed more than 90 people since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
World oil prices declined Wednesday after a U.S. government report showed strong supplies of gasoline and heating fuel in the key U.S. market .
The Energy Department said inventories of heating oil and diesel grew by two million barrels last week , and the stock of gasoline grew by a similar amount .
After the report , the Bloomberg financial news service reported the price of crude oil for future delivery fell 81 cents to $ 43.10 a barrel .
Concern about a shortage of heating fuel during winter in the U.S. market was a factor in pushing oil prices up in recent months .
A plane carrying 11 people aiding the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia has crashed near the Somali capital , Mogadishu .
Several witnesses and officials say the aircraft was downed by a missile shortly after takeoff from the Mogadishu airport Friday .
The plane was a Russian or Belarusian-built cargo plane used by the A.U. mission in Somalia .
A.U. and Somali government sources say the passengers included technicians who had been working to repair another plane at the airport .
There has been no word on whether anyone survived the crash .
The apparent attack followed two days of intense clashes in Mogadishu that have killed at least 25 people .
Fighting on the ground largely died down today after the powerful Hawiye clan said it had reached a ceasefire with Ethiopian forces who back the Somali government .
Many of the Islamist fighters who have been fighting the government come from the clan .
Up to 400 Ethiopians protested in front of the offices of the Norwegian parliament , foreign ministry and prime minister today .
They are calling for increased pressure by Norway – and Europe – on the government of Ethiopia in the wake of last month ’s contested parliamentary elections .
Results from the Ethiopian electoral board show the ruling party in the lead , but the opposition says the results are fraught with voting irregularities and fraud .
The official election tally is not expected until July 8th .
Ghidey Zeratsion is a spokesman for The United Ethiopian Democratic Front in the Norwegian capital .
He ’s also one of the leaders of today ’s demonstration in Oslo .
He told Voice of America reporter William Eagle that his party wants the EU to stop lending political and economic support to the government of Ethiopia .
That includes , he says , extending debt relief .
The U.S. military says it has arrested four suspected militants in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul .
Officials said Thursday one of the detained men is believed to have ties to a top al-Qaida in Iraq insurgent killed in Mosul earlier this month .
The military announced Wednesday that it had identified the militant killed October fifth as Abu Qaswarah , also known as Abu Sara .
U.S. officials say the Moroccan-born man was the second in command of al-Qaida in Iraq .
The U.S.-led coalition said his death will cause a major disruption to the al-Qaida in Iraq network .
South Korea 's Unification Minister , Lee Jong-seok , is urging Pyongyang to resume stalled negotiations on its nuclear program .
South Korean news reports say Lee made the request at the opening session of a new round of inter-Korean talks , which began Friday in Pyongyang .
Details on North Korea 's reaction to the proposal were not available .
Six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program have been stalled since last November .
Pyongyang says it will not return to the talks until the United States lifts financial sanctions imposed over allegations North Korea counterfeits U.S. currency .
Washington has rejected the demand .
Reports say that during the inter-Korean talks , Lee also urged Pyongyang to address the issue of South Korean civilians and prisoners of war that Seoul says are being held against their will in the North .
Pyongyang denies the allegations .
President Vladimir Putin says his country is developing and testing new nuclear missile systems that are not like those available to any other nuclear power .
Russian news agencies quote the Russian leader who made the comments Wednesday in a speech to a group of high-ranking military officials .
They quote him as saying he expects to see the new systems put in service in the near future .
The reports say Mr. Putin warned of the dangers of international terrorism , saying Russia will face new threats if it does not develop its nuclear and missile shield systems .
Palestinian gunmen have ambushed a vehicle near a Gaza Strip border crossing , killing two Israelis and wounding four others .
Israeli troops returned fire and killed one gunman following the attack Saturday at the Kissufim border crossing in southern Gaza .
Three militant groups - Islamic Jihad , al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade and the Popular Resistance Committee - all claimed responsibility for the attack .
The violence came hours after Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas , and praised security efforts ahead of Israel 's planned withdrawal from Gaza .
On Friday , Israeli troops captured a Palestinian man they say was planning to detonate a suicide bomb in Tel Aviv .
A new survey indicates public opinion in the United States and Europe supports free trade , but most people are ambivalent about whether they will benefit .
A survey published Tuesday by the German Marshall Fund , a transatlantic think tank , shows most respondents think increased global trade benefits big companies and rapidly developing countries like China and India .
Fewer than half of those surveyed think they will personally benefit .
The findings come from interviews with thousands of people in the United States and five European countries ( France , Germany , Italy , Poland and Britain ) .
The data was issued before next week 's gathering of nearly 150 members of the World Trade Organization to discuss a global trade pact that was intended to slash trade barriers and boost the global economy .
Talks have stalled amid bickering over efforts to cut agricultural subsidies in wealthy nations .
Lebanese security officials say Israeli troops firing across the border have killed one Lebanese man and wounded another .
Officials say the shooting occurred near the border village of Ghajar , which is near a suspected smuggling route .
Israeli officials claimed gunmen had first fired on the Israeli soldiers , who then returned fire .
There were no Israeli casualties .
U.N. spokeswoman Yasmina Bouziane confirmed the incident .
She says the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon took one of the victims to a hospital in the town of Marjayoun where he was pronounced dead .
She says they are investigating allegations that the men were drug smugglers , as well as other details of the incident .
She is urging both sides to show maximum restraint .
Such cross-border violence has been rare following the end of Israel 's war with Hezbollah militants in 2006 .
A roadside bomb has killed three policemen in southern Afghanistan and an artillery attack by Afghan and NATO forces has killed five suspected Taleban insurgents .
The three policemen were traveling on the main highway linking Murja and Lashkar Gah districts in Helmand province when they were killed .
Local officials in the same province say five militants were killed in Musa Qala district on Sunday .
This is in addition to some 71 militants who were slain in Kandahar province by NATO-backed fighting that began late Saturday and spilled into Sunday .
Elsewhere , Britain 's Defense Ministry says a British soldier was killed and three others wounded during a clash with hostile forces in Helmand province on Sunday .
Violence has escalated in recent weeks after NATO forces moved to southern Afghanistan to destroy suspected Taleban hideouts .
The lawyer for Jacques Chirac says the former French president will go on trial for embezzlement in Paris early next year .
Mr. Chirac is accused of abusing public funds while he was mayor of Paris .
He allegedly paid friends with city money for jobs that did not exist .
The 77-year-old Mr. Chirac is the first leader in the country 's modern history to face corruption charges .
He could face up to 10 years in prison and fine of $ 159,000 .
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated .
Loud groans and noises were heard , and crowds of people came from all parts to see what was the matter .
While they were assembled in anxious expectation of some terrible calamity , out came a Mouse .
Do n't make much ado about nothing .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva says that later this month he will announce a series of measures to stimulate the country 's growth .
President da Silva was sworn in for a second term Monday , pledging to Congress to make Brazil 's economy grow .
Mr. da Silva begins his final , four years in office with a record of having brought inflation under control and stabilizing the country 's boom-and-bust economic cycles .
But Brazil 's 2.6-percent growth has lagged behind other countries in the region and is only a quarter of India 's and China 's .
Mr. da Silva has pledged to increase Brazil 's growth to five percent .
Thousands of people gathered in the rain outside the presidential palace to celebrate Mr. da Silva 's inauguration .
He won a landslide run-off election in October in spite of a series of corruption scandals that have plagued his Workers ' Party .
An aide to former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto says she has decided not to attend a conference of parties opposed to Pakistan 's president , Pervez Musharraf .
The aide says representatives from the Pakistan People 's Party would instead attend the conference later this month in London .
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is hosting the conference .
President Pervez Musharraf has said he will not allow either exiled former prime minister to run for office in elections expected by next January .
General Musharraf has said Ms. Bhutto would be put on trial for alleged corruption if she returns to Pakistan , and Mr. Sharif would be put on a plane back to Saudi Arabia .
General Musharraf ousted him in a bloodless coup in 1999 .
After the coup , Mr. Sharif and Ms. Bhutto joined what they call an Alliance for the Restoration of Democracy .
China says it has sentenced to death five ethnic Uighur Muslims from the country 's restive far western region , who were convicted of separatist activities .
The official Xinhua news agency said Sunday that the Intermediate Court in Kashgar , in the province of Xinjiang , sentenced a sixth man to life in prison .
The agency said of the five men who were sentenced to death , two had their sentences suspended for two years .
That means the death sentence will be commuted to life in jail if the prisoners show good behavior and remorse for two years .
Chinese authorities say the six ethnic Uighur Muslims were members of a terrorist organization .
China has cracked down hard on Uighurs , whom it accuses of trying to set up an independent state in Xinjiang .
Iranian police say they plan to begin a strict crackdown on social corruption issues , including women violating Islamic dress code .
Iran 's Fars news agency quotes Tehran 's police chief as saying officers will arrest women who fail to cover their hair or who fail to wear long , loose fitting clothes .
They say they also will look for taxis that transport women in improper dress , as well as popular shops that sell the outfits .
Enforcement of strict moral codes was loosened when Mohammad Khatami became president in 1997 .
But hard-liners and conservative clerics have urged the current president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , to re-enforce the Islamic laws .
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and , striking him unceasingly with his stings , wounded him to death .
The Snake , being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his enemy , saw a wagon heavily laden with wood , and went and purposely placed his head under the wheels , saying , " At least my enemy and I shall perish together . "
The Sri Lankan military says its troops have killed at least 150 Tamil Tiger rebels during heavy fighting since Friday .
An army spokesman ( Udaya Nanayakkara ) said the Tigers launched a series of counterattacks against a military onslaught that has left them confined to a 45 square kilometer area on Sri Lanka 's northeastern coast .
The military said it killed 100 rebels during fighting Friday and Saturday .
Officials say 50 bodies were recovered within the past day .
Journalists and independent observers are barred from the war zone , making it difficult to confirm reports from either side of the conflict .
Tamil Tiger rebels have been fighting since 1983 to establish an independent homeland for Sri Lanka 's ethnic minority Tamils .
The group claims Tamils face second-class treatment by the Sinhalese majority .
A top U.N. official has wrapped up a four-day visit to Sri Lanka , saying the world body has no plans to replace Norway as a peace broker between the Colombo government and Tamil Tiger rebels .
Responding Wednesday to reports in local media , Special U.N. envoy Lakhdar Brahimi said the world body has not been asked to intervene in the decades-old conflict .
Mr. Brahimi said his visit included meetings with political parties and European cease-fire monitors .
He said the talks covered a wide range of issues , but declined to give details .
Mr. Brahimi came to the island nation at the invitation of President Chandrika Kumaratunga to assess the country 's peace process following the assassination of Sri Lanka 's foreign minister last month by suspected rebels .
The government of Ivory Coast has ordered the suspension of FM broadcasts from France 's state radio station , Radio France International , saying recent reports show bias against the government .
RFI aired a story last week about a massacre of more than 100 people in the western part of Ivory Coast in June .
RFI 's story referred to a United Nations report that implicated the government .
The U.N. mission has since denied that such a report exists .
Ivory Coast is demanding that the popular radio broadcasters retract the story and pay a $ 16,000 fine before broadcasts are allowed to resume .
An RFI statement defends its news coverage and asks Ivory Coast to quickly reconsider its decision .
The former French colony has intermittently suspected RFI broadcasts over the years .
A Newark woman reporting her car as stolen mentioned that there was a car phone in it .
The policeman taking the report called the phone and told the guy that answered that he had read the ad in the newspaper and wanted to buy the car .
They arranged to meet , and the thief was arrested .
Spiraling violence continues to mar Egypt 's parliamentary elections , with police and voters clashing in the northern part of the country , leaving two people dead .
Hospital officials in the town of Damietta say two people have been killed since polls opened Wednesday for the final round of run-off voting .
Voters in other parts of the country also have complained that they have been barred from polling stations in areas where opposition candidates are expected to do well .
President Hosni Mubarak 's National Democratic Party is expected to retain control in the 454-seat parliament , despite significant gains by candidates supported by the banned Muslim Brotherhood .
The United States said Tuesday that reports of violence and voter intimidation raise serious concerns about the path of political reform in Egypt .
In all , five people have been killed since the three-stage vote began November 9 .
Hundreds of demonstrators have marched through the Japanese capital , Tokyo , to protest the war in Iraq .
Activists chanted calls for an end to the Iraq war and carried banners critical of U.S. President George W. Bush .
Organizers say about two thousand people took the streets Sunday , ahead of the fourth anniversary Tuesday of the U.S. invasion of Iraq .
Japan deployed 600 troops to Iraq on a reconstruction mission - the military 's first overseas mission in a war zone since World War II .
Japan withdrew the troops last year but continues to help the war effort by flying supplies and personnel to Iraq .
The economic downturn in the United States is squeezing organizations that provide help to people in need , just as attention turns to charitable needs during the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday period .
Many non-profit charities and agencies offering food , shelter and other types of assistance say donations are failing to keep up with a surge in demand for their services .
Steve Mort reports for VOA from Orlando , Florida .
Five small bombs have exploded near highways in the Madrid area and another in northern Spain but none caused injuries .
The Madrid blasts , as Spain marked Constitution Day , followed telephone warnings from the Basque separatist group ETA .
Interior Minister Jose Antonio Alonso called the blasts another example of senseless violence that only confirms the need to fight ETA with all the power of the democratic state .
The sixth explosion damaged a post office in the northern town of Navarra .
Meanwhile , authorities evacuated the airport in the northern city of Santander after receiving a bomb threat believed to be from ETA .
Police searched the facility , but found no explosives .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths over nearly four decades as it pursued its campaign for creation of an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
NATO said Tuesday Afghan and coalition forces conducting a joint patrol in southern Helmand province killed up to 23 insurgents in three separate engagements in the province .
A NATO statement said a joint patrol requested artillery rocket fire to suppress insurgents , after sustaining small arms and machine gunfire late Monday .
NATO also confirmed that its troops captured a Haqqani network sub-commander and two of his associates during an overnight operation in eastern Khost province .
The troops also recovered a pistol , a grenade and multiple bayonets and loaded magazines at the scene .
In central Wardak province Tuesday , a joint Afghan and coalition force killed three insurgents in charge of manufacturing and distributing home-made bombs in the province .
China 's state-run media say 138 workers are now known to have died after an explosion in a coal mine in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang .
The Xinhua news agency says 221 miners were working at the time of the blast late Sunday ( at the Dongfeng mine in Qitaihe ) .
Only 72 miners have been found alive .
Eleven remain missing .
Rescue workers entered the mine shaft to search for survivors after the ventilation systems were restored .
The systems had been shut down by the coal dust explosion .
Chinese news reports say the mine was properly licensed , as part of ( Heilongjiang Longmei Group ) a state-owned mining conglomerate .
China 's mining industry is the world 's most dangerous .
Many mines devote little attention to safety standards , resulting in frequent cave-ins , explosions , floods and fires .
A truck bomb attack against a police station in the Iraqi capital has killed at least 22 police and civilians and wounded about 25 .
Authorities say the suicide bomber detonated a flatbed truck with about 220 kilograms of explosives at the station in eastern Baghdad , incinerating at least 20 nearby vehicles and damaging shops .
It was the deadliest attack in Iraq since a suicide bomber ignited a fuel truck south of Baghdad July 16 , killing nearly 100 people .
Elsewhere in the capital , at least three people were killed when a mortar round fell near the Interior Ministry .
And a police chief was assassinated as he drove to work .
Separately , the U.S. military says a Marine was killed by a roadside bomb during combat operations Saturday near the western town Ar Rutbah .
Britney Spears and Kevin Federline have reached a settlement in their divorce .
A spokesman for Federline 's attorney says the March 29 agreement covers child custody and financial matters , but offered no further details .
Spears ' attorney also declined to comment .
Britney Spears filed for divorce November 7 , citing irreconcilable differences .
She sought custody of their two sons , 18-month-old Sean Preston , and six-month-old Jayden James .
Kevin Federline counter-filed court papers the following day , seeking sole custody of the boys , along with spousal support .
The couple wed in September , 2004 .
Iraqi forces have taken complete control of the fortified Green Zone in Baghdad , as U.S. troops prepare to withdraw from the country .
With the handover Tuesday , Iraq security forces will guard all entry points to the international zone , which houses government offices and foreign embassies .
The Green Zone was demarcated after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein .
The United States is planning to withdraw all but 50,000 soldiers from Iraq by September , and to withdraw the rest next year .
Senior Israeli officials say prime minister-designate Ehud Olmert will likely meet with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas later this month .
They say the talks will probably take place after Mr. Olmert visits the United States to discuss his plan to withdraw from some isolated Israeli settlements in the West Bank while strengthening major settlement blocs there .
Mr. Olmert 's government is to be sworn into office Thursday .
The last meeting between Mr. Abbas and an Israeli prime minister was in 2005 when he met with Ariel Sharon .
Israeli officials have said they will not hold negotiations with the Hamas-led Palestinian government .
Iraqi officials say at least one police officer was killed and 10 people wounded after a suicide bomber detonated explosives near a police checkpoint .
Authorities say the attack took place Thursday near the northern city of Mosul .
In political news , Iraq 's Al-Mada newspaper quotes Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki as saying his political rivals who narrowly won the March 7 parliamentary election would not be able to form a new government .
The newspaper says Mr. Maliki called the efforts by former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's Iraqiya bloc a " waste of time . "
Iraqi election officials say Mr. Allawi 's bloc won 91 parliamentary seats while Prime Minister Maliki 's State of Law coalition had 89 .
Neither group had the majority needed to form a new government .
However , Mr. Maliki 's Shi'ite coalition recently announced that it had formed an alliance with another Shi'ite bloc that came in third in the election .
China says it will strengthen controls on the export of nuclear goods for both civilian and military use to help prevent nuclear terrorism and proliferation .
State media report Saturday the stronger regulations forbid buyers from using or duplicating China 's nuclear goods and technologies for activities not approved by the International Atomic Energy Agency .
The new regulations also prohibit the transfer of nuclear technology or equipment to a third party not identified in the export agreement .
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao signed the regulation Friday , replacing a document dating from 1998 .
The previous regulations failed to address the reproduction of nuclear goods .
Iraqi troops have carried out house-to-house searches in the northern city of Mosul , as a new crackdown against al-Qaida in Iraq entered its second day Thursday .
It is unclear how many arrests took place .
Iraqi officials also eased some restrictions on movement that had been in force in Mosul .
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is overseeing the new offensive against al-Qaida militants in Mosul , their last Iraqi stronghold .
Iraqi officials say more than 500 suspected insurgents have been arrested in and around Mosul since the operation began earlier this week .
The U.S. military says it is giving support to Iraqi troops leading the operation .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says at least one militant was killed in overnight fighting in Baghdad 's Sadr City .
The military says fighting in Sadr City between U.S.-backed forces and Shi'ite militiamen loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has eased in recent days .
North Korea held a ceremony Monday to open an advanced mobile phone network in the reclusive and impoverished country .
The official Korean Central News Agency says North Korean officials celebrated the start of the third-generation network , which was built by an Egyptian company , at a ceremony in Pyongyang .
Cairo-based Orascom Telecom Holding SAE has been building the network since announcing its $ 400 million deal with North Korea earlier this year .
It was unclear who would use the network or how much phones would cost .
Third-generation networks provide mobile users with access to advanced mobile capabilities such as video calls and high-speed Internet access .
North Korea relies on international aid to feed its people and strictly controls its citizens ' access to information .
A Siberian town marked the 60th anniversary of victory in Europe Sunday by unveiling a bust of Stalin , the Soviet dictator who led the country during the struggle against Nazi forces .
Russian media said a few thousand people joined the regional governor of the Republic of Yakutia-Sakha in the town of Mirny as the monument was unveiled .
Soviet officials removed statues and images of Stalin in the mid 1950s , but public displays of the former dictator have been reappearing in Russia amid controversy .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says a Stalin bust that was unveiled in another Siberian city , Krasnoyarsk , on Saturday was removed just a few hours later on instructions from regional authorities .
Stalin has been blamed for the deaths of millions of people during his decades of domination of the Soviet Union .
Georgia 's President Mikhail Saakashvili says his country is ready to increase its military presence in Iraq to as many as 2,000 troops .
President Saakashvili said the increased contingent will remain in Iraq for a year .
He spoke to reporters Friday as he continued his visit Japan .
Georgia now has more than 850 troops in Iraq .
The Georgian leader said his country , which hopes to gain NATO membership , also is planning to send troops to Afghanistan to help alliance forces there .
Mr. Saakashvili 's five-day Japanese tour follows his visit to Kazakhstan .
He has discussed bilateral trade and economic opportunities in both countries .
Eddie Van Halen plans to enter rehab .
In a March 8 statement , the guitarist for the hard rock band Van Halen said he will seek treatment for unspecified reasons .
He says he presently feels incapable of giving fans his best performance .
It 's not known whether Eddie Van Halen will be in New York City for Van Halen 's March 12 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall Of Fame .
Mexico 's Zapatista rebels emerged from their southern jungle hideouts Sunday to begin what they say will be a six-month nationwide tour .
The rebels , who are traveling unarmed , hope to build support for indigenous people 's rights and the poor ahead of Mexico 's presidential election in July .
The tour was kicking off in the city of San Cristobal de las Casas in Chiapas state , where rebel leader Subcomandante Marcos was due to speak .
The mysterious ski mask-wearing leader plans to meet with other leftist organizations throughout Mexico in an effort to broaden the Zapatistas ' appeal .
The rebel leader is asking that he now be called " Delegate Zero . "
The tour 's start coincides with the 12th anniversary of a Zapatista uprising demanding greater rights for Indians and autonomy for the Chiapas region .
The World Health Organization has confirmed two more deaths in Indonesia from the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu , bringing that country 's death toll from the disease to 16 , over the past two years .
The organization confirmed at least one other person infected with the virus , which raises Indonesia 's total confirmed cases since 2005 to 22 .
WHO officials say they remain on alert for any signs that the virus has mutated into one that can spread from human to human .
They note that the appearance of human cases in Turkey signals that the dangerous H5N1 strain of bird flu has moved farther west .
WHO officials also say Iraq will receive thousands of doses of the anti-viral drug Tamiflu in case of an outbreak .
Experts have confirmed a girl in Iraq died of bird flu last month .
Bird flu has killed more than 86 people since 2003 .
A U.S. court has dismissed a lawsuit against a Canadian energy company accused of a role in human rights violations in southern Sudan .
The judge in New York said there was no evidence to justify the claims made against Talisman Energy , which operated indirectly in Sudan from 1998 to 2003 .
The Presbyterian Church of Sudan filed the civil claim on behalf of villagers who were allegedly killed and injured to allow construction of oil fields in Sudan .
Sudan 's government also was named in the suit .
The judge ruled that Sudan was in default after it failed to send attorneys to challenge the claims .
Canada 's government had criticized the lawsuit , saying the U.S. court had no authority in the matter .
Southern Sudan is struggling to rebuild following a 2005 peace deal that ended two decades of civil war .
The U.S. military in Iraq says it killed 16 terrorists and detained 10 suspects while conducting operations in Baghdad and the town of Haditha early Tuesday .
The military also said Iraqi and U.S. troops are taking a balanced approach in attacking Shi'ite and Sunni Arab militant groups .
The military said that in the past 45 days , 52 raids targeted the Mahdi Army of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr and 42 focused on Sunni insurgents .
In the capital Tuesday , Iraqi officials say two car bombs killed at least three people .
The U.S. military said it is also investigating what appeared to be the crash of a civilian aircraft in the capital .
The U.S. said three more U.S. troops were killed in separate incidents .
In the northern city of Mosul , five Iraqi policemen were killed and three others wounded in gunbattles with insurgents .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has lashed out at the United States , accusing Washington of trying to " bully " Iran into giving up its nuclear program .
In the southern Iranian city of Bushehr Wednesday , President Ahmadinejad said his country will resist until its right to develop nuclear energy is " fully realized . "
Hours earlier , President Bush in his State of the Union address described Iran as a nation " held hostage by a small clerical elite that is isolating and repressing its people . "
He accused the Iranian government of sponsoring terrorists in the Palestinian territories and Lebanon - and said that must come to an end .
Mr. Ahmadinejad said the United States is " tainted with the blood of nations " from wars and oppression .
President Bush said the Iranian government is defying the world with its nuclear ambitions , and that other nations must not permit Tehran to develop nuclear weapons .
Somali pirates have seized a merchant vessel and 24 of the ship 's crew members in the Gulf of Aden .
Maritime monitoring officials say pirates boarded and hijacked the Iceberg I vessel Monday just 15 kilometers from the port of Aden on the Yemeni coast .
The pirates were reported to be sailing the ship toward Somalia .
On Sunday , Somali pirates demanded a $ 3 million ransom for a North Korean-flagged cargo ship hijacked early last month .
Andrew Mwangura of the Kenya-based East African Seafarers Assistance Program said the pirates threatened to kill the 10 Syrian crew members on board the MV Rim .
Pirates seized the Libyan-owned ship on February 3 in the Gulf of Aden .
Somali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last few years , taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom .
Lebanese troops have pounded the few remaining compounds of militants inside a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon , as fighting entered its eighth week .
Lebanese military officials say at least three soldiers were killed in Monday 's clashes , bringing the total number of troop deaths to 100 .
In the latest fighting , troops unleashed artillery shells and exchanged machine gun fire with Fatah al-Islam militants .
The militants responded by launching at least five Katyusha rockets that landed in areas outside of the Nahr al-Bared camp .
In recent days , the Lebanese military has increased efforts to get the remaining militants in the camp to surrender .
More than 170 people have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
Thousands of Peruvians took to the streets of the capital , Lima , Tuesday to demand the extradition of former President Alberto Fujimori from Chile .
Reports from the scene say the protest was led by human rights groups and labor unions seeking to have the former president returned to Peru , where he faces charges of corruption and of authorizing death squads during his 10-year presidency .
Mr. Fujimori fled to Japan and faxed his resignation letter to Peru in the midst of a corruption scandal in 2000 .
He was arrested when he traveled to Chile last week .
Meanwhile , the Santiago Court of Appeals Tuesday turned down a motion by a private citizen to free the former president .
The citizen 's connection to the case was not clear .
This means Mr. Fujimori will remain under arrest .
Burma 's detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi is to be honored later Monday for her efforts to promote democracy in her homeland .
Aung San Suu Kyi and 19 other women will receive the Buddhism Prize for Women from the United Nations .
The awards will be presented in Bangkok by Swiss Ambassador to Thailand Hans-Peter Erismann .
The awards are being given in observance of International Women 's Day Tuesday .
Aung San Suu Kyi remains under house arrest in Rangoon .
Asian stocks have opened with mixed results in early trading - as investors try to recover from last week 's big sell-off in world markets .
Tokyo 's Nikkei Index was slightly down and Sydney 's ASX was slightly higher Wednesday .
Hong Kong 's Heng Seng index finished the day Tuesday with a two-percent gain .
The major U.S. and European indexes also finished the day with large gains .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is expected to visit China later today after stops in Japan and South Korea .
During his trip he said he feels very comfortable with the global economy , describing it as having very low inflation and high levels of liquidity .
But some U.S. analysts say they believe a struggling housing market and stronger Japanese yen could prompt stock prices to drop further .
The U.S. space shuttle Discoveryhas undocked from the International Space Station and is returning to Earth , ending its nine-day stay at the orbiting outpost .
Discovery pulled away from the space station Wednesday .
The shuttle 's crew is using a laser-tipped boom to inspect the craft 's wings and nose before returning home .
Discovery and its seven-member crew , which includes a Japanese astronaut , is scheduled to land back on Earth Saturday .
The astronauts arrived at the space station last week to deliver and attach a $ 1 billion Japanese laboratory .
They also tested a robotic arm that will help with science experiments outside the station .
Discovery 's commander , Mark Kelly , says the mission was a great success .
Astronaut Garrett Reisman is returning to Earth on the shuttle after spending three months aboard the space station .
His replacement , Greg Chamitoff , will remain on the station for six months .
About 4,000 people turned out in the Turkish capital , Ankara , Saturday to welcome home Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan from successful talks with the European Union .
Near-freezing temperatures did not discourage the cheering crowd , many of whom waved EU flags .
Confetti and fireworks rounded off the celebrations marking the European body 's decision Friday to begin membership talks with Turkey next October .
Prime Minister Erdogan told the crowd that Turkey had turned a critical juncture and would have to work harder now to assure its entry into the Union .
The European Union has imposed tough conditions on Turkey 's membership before talks , which could last years , can open next October .
Sarah Jessica Parker says she 's okay with Maxim Magazine naming her the Unsexiest Woman Alive .
Speaking to Britain 's Sunday Express , the Sex In The City actress said " I believe in the old 'sticks and stones ' philosophy , so frankly their words do n't come close to hurting . "
Said Parker , who topped Amy Winehouse , Sandra Oh , Madonna , and Britney Spears for the dubious title , " I admit , I do n't think I've ever conformed to the Hollywood ideal of beauty , whatever that is .
As I said , one day I 'll wake up really fat and that 'll be that .
I do n't really mind and it 's really not important to me to be skinny .
And it does n't bother me in the least if people do n't think I 'm sexy .
I do n't think I am , either . "
The trial in absentia of Iraq 's most wanted fugitive , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , and 12 other terror suspects has opened in the Jordanian capital , Amman .
Jordanian-born al-Zarqawi - the acknowledged mastermind behind scores of terror attacks in Iraq - is being tried in absentia , along with three of the 13 defendants .
Prosecutors accuse al-Zarqawi and most of the others of plotting to launch suicide chemical attacks inside Jordan .
Shortly after the trial opened Wednesday , nine defendants present in the courtroom brought proceedings to a standstill when they refused to answer routine questions from military judges .
The court adjourned the case until December 22 .
If convicted , 12 of the defendants , including al-Zarqawi , could be sentenced to death .
A 13th defendant has been charged with the lesser crime of aiding two of the fugitives .
The Chilean government says the eldest daughter of former dictator Augusto Pinochet has requested political asylum in the United States .
U.S. Customs and Border officials say Lucia Pinochet was sent to an immigrant detention center Wednesday after she arrived at Dulles International Airport outside Washington from Argentina .
Pinochet on Sunday fled Chile , where she has been charged with tax evasion .
Chile 's Foreign Minister Ignacio Walker said in Santiago he expects U.S. officials to take a few days to consider Pinochet 's asylum request and he expects it to be rejected .
The charges she faces are related to a broader investigation of $ 27 million her father allegedly hid in foreign bank accounts .
General Pinochet also has been charged with tax fraud .
A former aide to Brazilian Finance Minister Antonio Palocci has accused him of accepting illegal contributions from contractors when Mr. Palocci was a city mayor several years ago .
Rogerio Buratti told prosecutors Friday that Mr. Palocci received about $ 21,000 a month from contractors handling trash collection in Ribeirao Preto .
Mr. Buratti said he suspected the money went to the Workers Party and its former treasurer , Delubio Soares .
At the time , the party did not control the presidency .
The allegations come two days after Mr. Buratti was arrested on money laundering and fraud charges in a separate matter .
Mr. Palocci , for his part , " vehemently denies " Mr. Buratti 's allegations , which rocked local financial markets .
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 's administration faces accusations it paid legislators to support the government in Congress .
The party has apologized for the crisis , blaming it on rogue aides .
A German court has sentenced a prominent neo-Nazi to seven years in prison for planning a bomb attack on a Jewish community center .
The court in the southern city of Munich ruled Wednesday that 29-year-old Martin Wiese was the mastermind of the planned bomb attack .
The court also said he was the leader of a neo-Nazi group .
Three co-defendants received jail terms ranging in length from two to six years .
Prosecutors charged the defendants with planning to bomb the dedication ceremony of a Munich Jewish center in November , 2003 .
Germany 's president and Jewish leaders were at the ceremony .
Wiese 's lawyer said Tuesday the group had no plans to carry out the attack and denied prosecutors ' assertions that he belongs to a terror group .
President Bush has signed landmark legislation that will make sweeping changes to the U.S. intelligence community .
Before signing the legislation Friday , President Bush said the bill is the most dramatic overhaul of the U.S. intelligence community in more than 50 years .
He thanked Congress for passing the bill earlier this month , and said the new legislation will help protect Americans against the threat of terrorism .
The bill is designed to improve communication and the sharing of information between the country 's 15 intelligence agencies .
It will also create a national counterterrorism center and a national intelligence director , who will oversee all intelligence agencies , including the Central Intelligence Agency .
The bill resulted from recommendations by the independent commission that investigated the deadly September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
President Bush is urging Americans to thank and assist members of the United States military and their families .
The president made his appeal during a televised speech Tuesday at Camp Pendleton , a U.S. Marine base in the state of California .
Mr. Bush asked Americans to visit a website ( americasupportsyou.mil ) for ideas on how to help military men and women .
Camp Pendleton has one of the highest casualty rates in Iraq of any U.S. military base or installation .
The president was scheduled to have lunch with the Marines and visit troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The speech came on the 63rd anniversary of the day the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor and sent the United States into World War Two .
Armenia prides itself on being the first nation to formally adopt Christianity ( early 4th century ) .
Despite periods of autonomy , over the centuries Armenia came under the sway of various empires including the Roman , Byzantine , Arab , Persian , and Ottoman .
During World War I in the western portion of Armenia , Ottoman Turkey instituted a policy of forced resettlement coupled with other harsh practices that resulted in an estimated 1 million Armenian deaths .
The eastern area of Armenia was ceded by the Ottomans to Russia in 1828 ; this portion declared its independence in 1918 , but was conquered by the Soviet Red Army in 1920 .
Armenian leaders remain preoccupied by the long conflict with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh , a primarily Armenian-populated region , assigned to Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow .
Armenia and Azerbaijan began fighting over the area in 1988 ; the struggle escalated after both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 .
By May 1994 , when a cease-fire took hold , ethnic Armenian forces held not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of Azerbaijan proper .
The economies of both sides have been hurt by their inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful resolution .
Turkey closed the common border with Armenia in 1994 because of the Armenian separatists ' control of Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding areas , further hampering Armenian economic growth .
In 2009 , senior Armenian leaders began pursuing rapprochement with Turkey , aiming to secure an opening of the border ; this process is currently dormant .
China 's health ministry has reported the country 's third human death from bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency says that the victim was a 41-year-old factory worker in the southeastern city of Sanming in Fujian province .
She became sick in early December and died last week .
Authorities are unsure how she contracted the disease as no animal cases have been reported in the area .
The case is China 's seventh human bird flu infection .
Meanwhile , Romania says tests in Britain have confirmed the presence of the deadly H5N1 bird flu strain in at least six villages east of Bucharest .
But in Ukraine , President Viktor Yuschenko has lifted a state of emergency in Crimea because the bird flu outbreak there has been eliminated .
Witnesses in the Somali capital of Mogadishu say six people were killed Saturday in fighting between Ethiopian forces and Islamist rebels .
The rebels have been carrying out an insurgency against the Ethiopian troops .
Ethiopia sent troops to Somalia last year to help the interim Somali government oust the Islamist militants who had taken control of much of the country .
Somalia has been without an effective government since warlords overthrew dictator Mohammed Siad Barre in 1991 and turned on each other .
The African Union has pledged to send a large peacekeeping force into the country , but only Uganda has committed troops to the mission .
The World Health Organization has confirmed the first human case of bird flu in Laos .
In a joint statement issued Tuesday , WHO and Laotian officials say a 15-year-old girl who fell ill earlier this month is infected with the bird flu virus .
Officials say the girl was hospitalized in Vientiane and later transferred to Thailand , where she is in stable condition .
WHO officials have not confirmed whether the virus is the often-fatal H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Bird flu broke out among poultry in the girl 's village near the capital two weeks ago .
The disease first appeared in Laos in 2004 .
It is known to have killed about 170 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
The Dutch United Provinces declared their independence from Spain in 1579 ; during the 17th century , they became a leading seafaring and commercial power , with settlements and colonies around the world .
After a 20-year French occupation , a Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1815 .
In 1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate kingdom .
The Netherlands remained neutral in World War I , but suffered invasion and occupation by Germany in World War II .
A modern , industrialized nation , the Netherlands is also a large exporter of agricultural products .
The country was a founding member of NATO and the EEC ( now the EU ) , and participated in the introduction of the euro in 1999 .
In October 2010 , the former Netherlands Antilles was dissolved and the three smallest islands - Bonaire , Sint Eustatius , and Saba - became special municipalities in the Netherlands administrative structure .
The larger islands of Sint Maarten and Curacao joined the Netherlands and Aruba as constituent countries forming the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
The U.S. military said nine suspected militants have been killed in separate operations in southern and central Afghanistan .
It said U.S.-led coalition forces killed two militants and captured six others in a clash Thursday in the southern province of Helmand .
Separately , the military said seven militants were killed during an airstrike that followed a gunbattle in the central province of Ghazni Wednesday .
It also said a Taliban commander was detained .
U.S. President Barack Obama has ordered 21,000 additional troops to reinforce the 38,000 U.S. troops already in Afghanistan , where the Taliban-led insurgency is spreading .
President Barack Obama is heading north , to Canada , for his first international trip as U.S. commander-in-chief .
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Wednesday Mr. Obama will meet with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper during the trip on February 19 .
The spokesman said the health of each economy and the global economy will be a large part of the agenda .
He said trade will also likely be discussed .
In other news , the spokesman said Mr. Obama has called South African President Kgalema Motlanthe - the latest in a series of world leaders that Mr. Obama has talked with since taking office January 20 .
Saudi Arabia says the leader of the al-Qaida network in the kingdom was among those killed in a shootout with security forces Monday .
The Saudi Interior Ministry said Tuesday the al-Qaida leader was killed along with four other men wanted for last week 's failed attempt to bomb a massive oil processing plant .
Saudi officials say a sixth suspected militant was arrested in a separate raid Monday and will be interrogated .
Al-Qaida 's Saudi branch says it was behind last week 's attempted attack and has vowed to hit other Saudi oil installations .
Thousands of supporters of Egypt 's banned Muslim Brotherhood demanded real political reform at protests across the country Wednesday .
Riot police surrounded a Cairo mosque where demonstrators gathered chanting demands for decades-old emergency laws to be repealed , and be replaced by Islamic law .
Large numbers of protesters also turned out in towns around the capital .
In all , police detained some 200 protesters , but there were no confirmed reports of violence .
President Hosni Mubarak has proposed a constitutional amendment that would allow more than one candidate for president in upcoming elections .
Parliament is due to vote on the proposal next week , but opponents fear the ruling party will impose strict conditions on who can run , making the amendment meaningless .
The 2005 Nobel Prize in Physics has been awarded to two Americans and one German for their work in the field of optics .
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm announced Tuesday that American Roy J. Glauber will receive one half of the $ 1.3 million prize for his theoretical description of the behavior of light particles .
John L. Hall of the United States and Theodor W. Haensch of Germany will split the other half of the prize for their work in determining the color of the light of atoms and molecules with extreme precision .
The Nobel prize for medicine was presented Monday to Australian scientists Barry J. Marshall and J. Robin Warren for diagnosing the cause of stomach ulcers .
Prizes for chemistry , literature , and peace also will be announced this week .
The economic prize will be announced on October 10 .
The Hong Kong government says it has found another dead bird that has tested positive for the H5N1 strain of avian flu .
The Agriculture , Fisheries and Conservation Department department said the latest case is another Oriental magpie robin found January 26 in a village near the border with mainland China .
It said Sunday the bird was confirmed to be H5N1 positive after a series of laboratory tests .
Hong Kong went one year without reporting any cases of H5N1 in birds .
But the streak ended 10 days ago ( January 19 ) when officials announced a dead Oriental magpie robin tested positive for the virus .
That bird also was also found near the border with mainland China .
Bird flu has killed at least 81 people in East Asia and Turkey since 2003 .
Suicide bombers have killed four police officers , including a commander , in an attack in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul .
Iraqi officials said the bombers wore explosive vests and that two of them got inside police headquarters , blowing themselves up near Lieutenant Colonel Shamel Ahmed Aughla .
The Associated Press said an al-Qaida affiliate , the Islamic State of Iraq , claimed responsibility in an Internet posting .
Reuters reported the police commander was targeted because of his crackdown on al-Qaida ,
Local officials say the slain police commander had organized recent operations against al-Qaida militants , and had escaped several previous assassination attempts .
Security officials said a third suicide bomber was shot and killed as he approached the complex .
The attack came two days after suicide bombers detonated explosives near a provincial government compound in Ramadi , killing 17 people .
Iraqi authorities say a suicide bomber has killed at least 25 people outside an Iraqi army recruitment center near the border with Syria .
Police say dozens more people were wounded in the attack in the town of Rabiah , about 10 kilometers east of the Syrian border .
Friday 's bombing comes hours after the U.S. military announced that it captured Ammar Abu Bara , a top al-Qaida terror leader for the city of Mosul , which is about 80 kilometers east of Rabiah .
On Thursday , American and Iraqi forces killed nine insurgents , including five believed to be Syrian nationals , during a clash in the village of Cykla , northwest of Baghdad .
Iraq and the United States say many insurgents in Iraq come from neighboring Arab countries .
A new movie about Arab-Americans in Los Angeles , in the era after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks , is putting a human face on a population that most Americans know little about .
" AmericanEast " is a comic drama highlighting the pressures felt by Arab-Americans as they try to fit into American society and battle negative stereotypes .
Mohamed Elshinnawi has more .
Afghan authorities say shots fired near the Afghan defense minister on Saturday were not an assassination attempt as originally thought .
A defense ministry spokesman said Sunday that the minister 's vehicle was caught in crossfire between two groups of feuding Afghan soldiers settling a dispute by gunfire .
Officials said Saturday that four men in military uniforms fired toward minister Abdul Rahim Wardak 's vehicle after he got out and boarded a nearby helicopter .
Nine soldiers have been arrested in the incident .
An Iraqi court has sentenced former vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan to death for his role in the killing of 148 Shi'ites from the town of Dujail in the 1980s .
The High Court in Baghdad sentenced Ramadan to death by hanging Monday .
He was vice president in Saddam Hussein 's ousted government .
Ramadan had been sentenced to life in prison in November , but an appeals court recommended that he receive the death penalty and referred the case back to the trial court for a final decision .
Saddam and two other top former officials have already been hanged for their role in the Dujail killings .
United Nations officials and international human rights groups have appealed for Ramadan 's life to be spared .
Officials in China say the government plans to build 40 nuclear power plants over the next 15 years to increase the production of electricity .
Chinese state media quote officials from the Commission of Science , Technology and Industry as saying Beijing plans to increase the proportion of electricity generated by nuclear power from the current 2.5 percent to four percent in 15 years .
Most of the plants will provide electricity for China 's east coast .
China now relies on coal for some 70 percent of its energy demands .
But officials are increasingly worried about the pollution from coal fired power plants and the hazards of China 's coal mines , which are the deadliest in the world .
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Several Americans held hostage in Iran more than 25 years ago say they remember Iran 's President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as playing a key role in the seizure .
A group of radical Iranian students stormed the U.S. embassy in Tehran in November 1979 and held 52 Americans hostage for 444 days .
In recent interviews with the Washington Times and Associated Press , several former hostages described Mr. Ahmadinejad as " a cruel individual " who interrogated the captives .
One former hostage , Kevin Hermening , -- who was a Marine guard at the embassy - - recalled the man he believed to be Mr. Ahmadinejad asked him for the combination to the embassy 's safe .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was in his early 20s at the time of the hostage taking .
He denies taking part in storming of the American compound .
Last week , he won Iran 's runoff presidential election by a landslide .
Chinese officials say the death toll from Sunday 's coal mine blast has risen to 161 amid confusion about the number of miners working at the time of the blast .
China 's state-run media had said 221 miners were reported working underground at the time of the explosion at the Dongfeng mine in Qitaihe .
But with Wednesday 's discovery of 11 more bodies , officials say the earlier count was too low .
They have not provided a new total .
Officials say 10 miners are now thought to be missing .
Only 72 miners have been found alive since coal dust exploded at the mine in China 's northeastern province of Heilongjiang .
China 's mining industry is the world 's most dangerous .
Government figures indicate some 6,000 people last year died in mine accidents .
A detainee in an outdoor solitary confinement cell talks with a military policeman at the Abu Ghraib prison
The U.S. Army has cleared four top officers , including a former top U.S. commander in Iraq , of any wrongdoing in the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal .
Defense officials say the Army 's inspector general ultimately decided there was no basis for bringing charges against Lieutenant General Ricardo Sanchez and two generals and a colonel under his command .
The officials said that another military official , Army Reserve Brigadier General Janis Karpinski , has been relieved of her command and given a written reprimand .
She oversaw the military police at the center of the prison scandal .
The findings are to be released in an upcoming report .
The Abu Ghraib prison scandal sparked outrage and condemnation in the United States and around the world after pictures emerged of American soldiers physically abusing and humiliating Iraqi prisoners .
New anti-U.S. protests are reported in several countries , sparked by allegations U.S. military interrogators desecrated the Koran .
Thousands of Somalis led by Muslim clerics rallied in Mogadishu , chanting anti-American slogans and Islamic prayers .
In Calcutta , India , some 300 Muslims burned and urinated on a U.S. flag , accusing Americans of desecrating the Koran .
Muslim demonstrators burn American flags outside the U.S. Embassy in London And in London , some 100 people demonstrated outside the U.S. embassy and chanted anti-American slogans .
The protests are continuing even though Newsweek magazine retracted its report that alleged interrogators flushed a Koran down a toilet at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Separately , the International Red Cross and the Pentagon have acknowledged that they discussed detainee complaints of Koran desecration in 2002 and 2003 .
The International Red Cross says the complaints stopped in 2003 after several discussions with defense officials .
Ukrainians are observing a day of mourning for the 27 people killed in a suspected gas explosion that destroyed sections of a five-story apartment building Wednesday .
Rescuers pulled out 21 survivors from the ruins before authorities began winding down their search in the Crimean Peninsula resort of Yevpatoria .
Officials say they found a family of five among the dead .
Investigators believe oxygen canisters stored in the basement exploded .
President Viktor Yushchenko and Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko put aside their political bickering and traveled together to the scene of the disaster .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev offered to send personnel from Russia 's Black Sea fleet to help in the search for survivors .
Four car bombs rocked a Shi'ite neighborhood in the Iraqi capital early Thursday , killing at least 17 people and wounding dozens more .
Hours earlier , a triple car bombing killed at least 18 others in another mainly Shi'ite Baghdad neighborhood .
Another 50 people were wounded .
In other developments , insurgent leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi says one of Saudi Arabia 's most wanted al-Qaida militants has been killed in a U.S. airstrike in northwestern Iraq .
An Internet statement said Abdullah Mohammed Rashid al-Roshoud was killed near Qaim .
It did not say when the death occurred .
Meanwhile , Iraqi Planning Minister Barham Saleh says he hopes that Wednesday 's international conference in Brussels translates into much-needed financial assistance .
In an interview with VOA 's Kurdish service , Mr. Saleh called on Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries to be more attentive to Iraq and its needs .
The U.S. military in Iraq says a suicide bomber has killed seven people at a government facility in Baquba .
It says the dead are a U.S. soldier , an American contractor and five Iraqi workers .
The blast also wounded 20 people , including nine Americans .
Tuesday 's attack came as Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish leaders continued negotiations to reach agreement on a new Iraqi constitution ahead of a parliament vote on the charter set for Thursday .
Majority Shi'ites and the Kurds are seeking a decentralized government that allows significant regional autonomy .
Sunnis want a centralized government , and warn that a draft constitution defining Iraq as a federal state could be rejected in October 's nationwide referendum .
In Washington , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld stressed that Iraqi leaders must draft a constitution that satisfies Shi'ites , Sunnis and Kurds .
Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh has condemned Israel 's arrest of Deputy Prime Minister Nasser al-Shaer , a top official of the Hamas militant organization .
In an early morning raid Saturday , Israeli forces burst into Shaer 's home in the West Bank town of Ramallah and took him away for questioning .
An Israeli spokesman said the Palestinian leader was taken into custody because he is a member of Hamas , which Israel , the United States and the European Union consider a terrorist organization .
In a separate incident , a Palestinian gunman and an Israeli soldier were killed in a firefight in the West Bank .
Israel began a crackdown against members of the Palestinian ruling group Hamas following the kidnapping of an Israeli soldier from an Israeli army post near the Gaza Strip in June .
The Indus Valley civilization , one of the world 's oldest , flourished during the 3rd and 2nd millennia B.C. and extended into northwestern India .
Aryan tribes from the northwest infiltrated onto the Indian subcontinent about 1500 B.C. ; their merger with the earlier Dravidian inhabitants created the classical Indian culture .
The Maurya Empire of the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C. - which reached its zenith under ASHOKA - united much of South Asia .
The Golden Age ushered in by the Gupta dynasty ( 4th to 6th centuries A.D. ) saw a flowering of Indian science , art , and culture .
Islam spread across the subcontinent over a period of 700 years .
In the 10th and 11th centuries , Turks and Afghans invaded India and established the Delhi Sultanate .
In the early 16th century , the Emperor BABUR established the Mughal Dynasty which ruled India for more than three centuries .
European explorers began establishing footholds in India during the 16th century .
By the 19th century , Great Britain had become the dominant political power on the subcontinent .
The British Indian Army played a vital role in both World Wars .
Nonviolent resistance to British rule , led by Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU , eventually brought about independence in 1947 .
Communal violence led to the subcontinent 's bloody partition , which resulted in the creation of two separate states , India and Pakistan .
The two countries have fought three wars since independence , the last of which in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh .
India 's nuclear weapons tests in 1998 caused Pakistan to conduct its own tests that same year .
In November 2008 , terrorists allegedly originating from Pakistan conducted a series of coordinated attacks in Mumbai , India 's financial capital .
Despite pressing problems such as significant overpopulation , environmental degradation , extensive poverty , and widespread corruption , rapid economic development is fueling India 's rise on the world stage .
In January 2011 , India assumed a nonpermanent seat in the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
Authorities in Pakistan say at least six suspected militants died when a bomb they were making blew up in the North Waziristan tribal region near the Afghan border .
A military spokesman says residents of the area around Miranshah , where the explosion destroyed a house early Saturday , said the victims were foreigners , possibly Arabs .
Authorities say confirmed one of the six dead was a women , but had no definite information about their nationality .
Many insurgents with links to Al-Qaida supposedly fled to Pakistan 's Waziristan tribal regions after U.S.-led forces ousted the Taliban from power in Afghanistan nearly four years ago .
U.S. officials say Sudan has apologized to visiting Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice after members of her staff and reporters traveling with her were manhandled by Sudanese security personnel in Khartoum .
Ms. Rice had expressed outrage following the incident which occurred as she met with President Omar Hassan al-Bashir at his residence for talks on the situation in Sudan 's Darfur region .
U.S. officials say security personnel shoved members of Ms. Rice 's staff , including senior advisor Jim Wilkinson , as well as members of the press , as they tried to enter the meeting .
Later , when Ms. Rice arrived in Darfur , her spokesman , Sean McCormack , said she had received a personal phone call from Sudan 's foreign minister , Mustafa Osman Ismail , apologizing for the incident .
Ms. Rice is touring a refugee camp in Darfur , where government troops and militias have been battling rebels for more than two years .
The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom says Saudi Arabia and Iran are countries of particular concern .
The commission says religious freedom does not exist in Saudi Arabia .
It says the kingdom 's government promotes extreme religious intolerance around the world .
It says Iran engages in systematic violations of religious freedom , including torture and executions , and that its record on the matter has further deteriorated over the past year .
Both Iran and Saudi Arabia were listed as countries of particular concern last year and the commission is urging U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to keep them on the list this year .
It also says Egypt and Iraq are being closely monitored because of violations of religious freedom .
Crude oil prices fell slightly Tuesday , after the U.S. government said it would consider making up a short-fall in crude oil production from Alaska .
The Bloomberg financial news service says oil prices fell 41 cents to trade at $ 76.57 a barrel in New York Tuesday morning .
London prices also eased , hitting $ 76.70 a barrel .
Monday , crude oil prices soared in New York and hit a record high in London when BP said it will shut down its Prudhoe Bay , Alaska operations .
Experts say the shutdown cuts U.S. oil production by nearly eight percent , or 400,000 barrels a day .
BP says it must replace 26 kilometers of corroded pipeline .
Officials with London-based BP say they do not know how long it will take to resume production at the largest oil field in the United States .
Sri Lanka 's air force says it has attacked a Tamil Tiger boat yard , destroying attack craft used by the rebels .
A military spokesman , Major Upali Rajapakse , said Saturday that a number of insurgents were killed in the overnight attack .
A pro-rebel Web site accused the air force of dropping four bombs on a civilian boat yard , wounding two workers .
The site said the yard was set up after the devastating tsunami in the Indian Ocean to build and repair fishing boats .
The European Union has called on the Sri Lankan government and Tamil Tiger rebels to immediately stop violence , saying it is threatening the peace process .
In a statement , the EU says the violence will not solve the ethnic conflict in the island nation .
An Afghan official said a rocket fired into Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan hit a mosque near a NATO base , killing at least 3 people and wounding several others .
Abdul Qayum Batizoi , police chief of Khost province , said several rockets were fired into the Khost region , but only one hit an inhabited area .
French newswire AFP said an American military official confirmed the attack , adding the NATO compound was not damaged and no troops were injured .
The compound is manned by the U.S. military .
Earlier this week , suicide bombers targeted government buildings in Khost and the NATO base nearby , killing at least 15 people and wounding many others .
A Kabul-based defense analyst , Khalid Maftoon , told VOA the latest attacks are part of the wider Taliban offensive aimed at derailing Afghanistan 's presidential elections scheduled for August .
U.S. stocks were down dramatically Thursday as fears grow about the faltering U.S. economy .
The S&P 500 was off almost three percent , and the Dow Jones lost a sharp 2.5 percent .
In congressional testimony , U.S. central bank chief Ben Bernanke expressed support for efforts to stimulate the economy , after a string of downbeat economic reports .
A Federal Reserve report showed manufacturing declining sharply in a key area , while a separate government study said the number of new homes under construction in 2007 dropped by 25 percent , the steepest drop for that industry since 1980 .
And Merrill Lynch , one of the biggest brokers , reported a nearly $ 10 billion quarterly loss , the worst in the company 's history .
President Bush is scheduled to offer ideas for stimulating the economy in a speech on Friday .
Democratic Party voters in Puerto Rico go to the polls on June 1 in the U.S. territory 's Presidential primary .
Residents can not vote in the general election for U.S. president , despite being American citizens .
But they can participate in primaries .
One poll of Puerto Rican voters puts Senator Hillary Clinton ahead of Senator Barack Obama by more than 10 percent in the battle for the Democratic Party 's nomination .
But the Caribbean island 's influence on American politics does not end there .
As Steve Mort reports from Florida , Puerto Ricans now make up an important voting bloc on the United States mainland .
Members of a U.N. nuclear monitoring agency rejected an Arab-sponsored resolution on Friday calling on Israel to join a global anti-atomic weapons treaty .
The United States had urged countries to vote down the symbolically important although non-binding resolution .
Washington warned the resolution could derail broader efforts to ban nuclear warheads in the Middle East .
Forty-six delegations voted in favor of the resolution , 51 against and 23 others abstained in the general assembly of the 151-member International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) .
It had approved a similar resolution expressing concern about " Israel 's Nuclear Capabilities " in a close vote last year .
Israel warned the Vienna gathering earlier on Friday that the Arab-led effort to single out the Jewish state could deal a " fatal blow " to any cooperation on improving security in the Middle East .
Police say two suicide bombers targeting a minority community killed at least 20 people and wounded 30 others in northern Iraq 's restive Mosul province .
Officials say the twin explosions occurred Thursday evening in a crowded cafe in the city of Sinjar .
Authorities say most of the victims were of the Yazidi religious sect , a Kurdish-speaking minority in the region .
The attack comes two years after four suicide truck bombs went off simultaneously in the same area , killing more than 400 Yazidis .
Bomb attacks have killed more than 100 people since Friday in Baghdad , Kirkuk and Mosul .
The bloodshed is the latest in a wave of violence that has occurred since American forces pulled back from urban areas in June .
Formerly administered as part of the British Crown Colony of Mauritius , the British Indian Ocean Territory ( BIOT ) was established as an overseas territory of the UK in 1965 .
A number of the islands of the territory were later transferred to the Seychelles when it attained independence in 1976 .
Subsequently , BIOT has consisted only of the six main island groups comprising the Chagos Archipelago .
The largest and most southerly of the islands , Diego Garcia , contains a joint UK-US naval support facility .
All of the remaining islands are uninhabited .
Between 1967 and 1973 , former agricultural workers , earlier residents in the islands , were relocated primarily to Mauritius , but also to the Seychelles .
Negotiations between 1971 and 1982 resulted in the establishment of a trust fund by the British Government as compensation for the displaced islanders , known as Chagossians .
Beginning in 1998 , the islanders pursued a series of lawsuits against the British Government seeking further compensation and the right to return to the territory .
In 2006 and 2007 , British court rulings invalidated the immigration policies contained in the 2004 BIOT Constitution Order that had excluded the islanders from the archipelago , but upheld the special military status of Diego Garcia .
In 2008 , the House of Lords , as the final court of appeal in the UK , ruled in favor of the British Government by overturning the lower court rulings and finding no right of return for the Chagossians .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has announced plans to revive the country 's long-stalled nuclear program .
President da Silva told reporters in Sao Paulo state Tuesday that funds will be allocated for completion of another nuclear power plant and construction of a nuclear-powered submarine .
Mr. da Silva also said Brazil could become one of the few countries in the world to control the entire uranium enrichment cycle .
In June , the Brazilian energy council approved plans to complete the country 's third nuclear power plant , the Angra Three .
Construction has been stalled since the 1980s .
Brazil has one of the world 's largest uranium reserves and is a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
Iraqi police say at least 18 people have been killed and nearly 40 others wounded in a series of bombings in northern Iraq .
Police say most of the attacks were carried out Tuesday by suicide car bombers who detonated their explosives-filled vehicles near security checkpoints around the town of Hawija , close to the oil city of Kirkuk In Baghdad , a car bomb exploded near a police patrol .
Police said there were casualties but no confirmed figure was immediately available .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says coalition forces are hunting down insurgents in the northwestern town of Tal Afar , near the Syrian border .
A U.S. television network ( CNN ) says dozens of tanks , bradley fighting vehicles and Apache helicopters have moved into the town , which is said to be stronghold of insurgents .
Separately , one U.S. Marine has died of wounds sustained in a roadside bomb blast Monday in the city of Fallujah .
A new United Nations report urges a massive effort to combat HIV infection , which it says has reached the highest number of people ever resulting in 3 million deaths from AIDS in the past year .
Tuesday 's report said there are 39.4 million people infected with HIV worldwide , with an increase in infection levels in every area of the world .
Sub-Saharan Africa remains the area worst-hit by the disease , followed by the Caribbean .
An increasing proportion of those infected are women .
The problem persists , the report says , despite increased prevention efforts such as AIDS education and voluntary testing and counseling .
Despite a rise in funding , nine out of 10 people who need antiretroviral therapy are still not receiving it .
The study says ultimately , only controlling HIV infection can make AIDS treatment affordable and sustainable .
A series of car bombs in and around Baghdad has targeted mainly Iraqi security forces , killing one person and wounding at least 11 others .
Police said a roadside bomb in Taji , north of the city , killed a civilian and wounded five other people .
In Baghdad 's Adhamiya neighborhood , at least two bombs strapped to parked cars wounded six people .
The attacks come as troops tightened security around Shi'ite mosques , shrines and political party offices ahead of a massive funeral procession for prominent Shi'ite leader Abdul Aziz al-Hakim .
Thousands of people are expected to mourn the leader of the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council later this week before he is buried in the holy city Najaf .
Hakim died Wednesday in Tehran following a two-year battle with lung cancer .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces have killed an estimated 70 terrorists in separate operations in areas of Al Anbar province west of Baghdad .
A military statement says 20 insurgents were killed Sunday when U.S. troops called in aircraft to bomb a group of suspects preparing to plant roadside bombs near Ramadi .
The military says another 50 insurgents were killed in clashes and air strikes in the region .
Local residents say at least half of the dead were civilians .
Meanwhile , President Bush praised Iraqis for turning out in large numbers to vote in Saturday 's constitutional referendum , despite the threat of insurgent violence .
Mr. Bush also praised U.S. and Iraqi security forces for preventing violence at polling stations .
As the vote count continues , Iraqi officials say initial results indicate that voters have approved the constitution , including in two key Sunni Arab dominated provinces ( Diyala and Nineva ) where analysts had expected residents to vote against the charter .
The Colombian Army says it has killed the number two leader of the powerful rebel group Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC .
Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos said Saturday that the army killed Raul Reyes , a top rebel commander who often served as a FARC spokesman .
Santos said Reyes was killed during a combat operation along the southern border with Ecuador .
The death is a victory for Colombian President Alvaro Uribe who has been under increasing international pressure to ease the long-running conflict with the country 's main leftist rebel group .
FARC is believed to be holding about 750 prisoners in jungle hideouts .
The government has been negotiating the swap of hostages , four of whom were released to Venezuelan authorities on Wednesday .
A New York-based media rights group is urging the Iraqi government to reverse a ban on journalists from the immediate aftermath of bomb attacks .
The government announced earlier this month that reporters will not be allowed at a bombing site for one hour following an attack .
Reasons given for the ban include protecting reporters from secondary attacks and preserving evidence from attacks .
However , the executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists , Joel Simon , says the restriction appears to be an attempt to limit media coverage of unwelcome news .
In a letter to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki , Simon says there is no justification for news coverage to be obstructed .
He called on the prime minister to allow the press to carry out its reporting without hindrance .
A Russia envoy says North Korean leader Kim Jong-il has confirmed Pyongyang will not develop nuclear weapons and continues to support the six-party agreement reached last month .
Russia 's Interfax news agency says presidential envoy Konstantin Pulikovsky just returned from North Korea 's 60th anniversary celebrations for the founding of the country 's communist party .
The agency quotes Mr. Pulikovsky as saying he met with the North Korean leader , and he clearly confirmed his country 's renunciation of nuclear weapons .
The Russian envoy also reported the 63-year-old leader is in excellent health , saying " he is lively and joyful . "
North Korea agreed last month during six-nation talks in Beijing to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for economic aid , energy assistance and security assurances .
The next round of talks is scheduled for November .
Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama says if elected president he plans to make college affordable for everyone .
Speaking to students at a community college in Michigan Tuesday , Obama discussed several initiatives he says he would implement including a $ 4,000 tax credit for students who can not afford college .
He also said he would require student loans be provided by the federal government .
The Illinois senator said there would be requirements to receive the tax credit , including 100 hours of community service .
On Monday , former U.S. Vice President Al Gore endorsed Obama , saying in Detroit , Michigan , that Obama is the candidate to lead the country toward a better future .
The presumptive Republican presidential nominee , John McCain , is campaigning Tuesday in Texas , where the veteran Arizona lawmaker is to call for the lifting of a ban on offshore U.S. oil and natural gas exploration .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's office says he and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas spoke by telephone Sunday and agreed to meet in the near future .
The two leaders were to have met today , but the meeting was canceled after a 10-day upsurge in violence .
Earlier today , Israel suspended its Gaza offensive , following a lull in rocket attacks by Palestinian militants .
The army said it will restart the operation if the rocket fire resumes .
In a separate development , Israel is warning vacationers to avoid Egypt 's Red Sea resorts over the upcoming Jewish holidays .
A government statement says Israeli tourists could be kidnapped by pro-Palestinian militants .
Thousands of Israelis ignored a similar warning last year ahead of bombings that killed 34 people at two Sinai resort areas .
Kenya 's president has announced that public hospitals and clinics will begin providing anti-retroviral drugs at no charge to AIDS patients .
In comments made Thursday , President Mwai Kibaki said his government will immediately waive the fees it has been charging for the drugs .
More than 200,000 Kenyans are eligible for the anti-retroviral drugs , but just a fraction are using the medications .
The fee of slightly more than one dollar for a treatment has been cited as a reason more people are not taking the medications .
The World Health Organization estimates some 1.2 million Kenyans are infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
An estimated six percent of Kenya 's adult population is infected , down from 14 percent a few years ago .
The new leader of Israel 's main opposition Labor Party is threatening to back a plan to topple Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's government and force early elections .
Amir Peretz says he wants to meet with Mr. Sharon by Wednesday when a bill will be introduced by a smaller opposition party , National Religious Party , calling for parliament to be dissolved .
Mr. Peretz says he will back the measure if he does not meet with Mr. Sharon before then .
Mr. Peretz made the comments after the prime minister postponed a meeting planned for Sunday .
Israel is not scheduled to hold parliamentary elections until next November , but Mr. Peretz is proposing they be held by March .
He defeated Shimon Peres for the Labor Party leadership in elections Thursday , vowing to pull the party from Mr. Sharon 's fragile coalition government .
Tens of thousands of flag-waving Lebanese mourners packed central Beirut Thursday for the funeral of outspoken Syrian critic Gebran Tueni .
The 48-year-old publisher and parliamentarian was killed Monday in a Beirut car bombing .
Banks , businesses and schools closed today , as a huge contingent of Lebanese police and soldiers deployed in Beirut 's Martyrs Square to ensure security for the funeral .
Mr. Tueni is the third anti-Syrian figure to be killed since the February 14 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Mass protests triggered by the Hariri murder forced Syria to end its three-decade military presence in Lebanon .
In similar scenes today , crowds denounced Damascus and demanded that Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud step down .
Syria has denied involvement in any of the killings .
The top United Nations investigator into the murder of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has presented his latest findings to Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
The report from Detlev Mehlis is to be delivered to the U.N. Security Council Monday , and Mr. Mehlis will brief the council Tuesday .
Mr. Mehlis has said the probe should continue and said he plans to request more interviews with Syrian officials .
An earlier report from U.N. investigators implicated Lebanese and Syrian officials in Mr. Hariri 's death .
Meanwhile , Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad told Russian television that he would punish any Syrians proven to have been involved in the February killing .
He also warned against possible sanctions by the U.N. Security Council , which has sought to pressure Syria to cooperate with the U.N. probe .
Pakistani intelligence officials say three U.S. missile strikes have killed at least 11 suspected militants in the country 's North Wazirstan tribal region .
The first drone strike Wednesday struck a vehicle near the town of Miran Shah , killing at least four militants .
Hours later , officials said , a second attack killed three militants in the same region .
And a third missile strike hit a vehicle in the Pai Khel area of North Waziristan , killing at least four suspected militants .
The United States has increased its use of missiles launched from unmanned aircraft against Taliban and al-Qaida-linked militants .
There have been at least 40 such strikes since September in northwestern Pakistan near the Afghan border .
The U.S. does not publicly acknowledge the attacks , which often are criticized by Pakistani officials as a violation of their country 's sovereignty .
A top U.S. official says the levee system that failed in New Orleans earlier this year will be rebuilt " stronger and safer than ever before " .
But the federal head of reconstruction efforts , Donald Powell Thursday stopped short of saying the new , reinforced levees would withstand a hurricane stronger than Katrina , which triggered the levee failure in August .
Katrina was a Category Three storm , on a scale that reaches a devastating Category Five .
At the same White House news conference , New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin said it is time for his city 's residents to return home .
He said the city now has the three things needed to lure residents and businesses back - tax incentives , money for new housing and reconstruction , and the new levee system , set to be completed before the beginning of next year 's hurricane season .
Indonesian prosecutors are seeking an eight-year jail term for the governor of tsunami-hit Aceh province , who is accused of misusing more than $ 1 million in government funds to buy a helicopter .
Prosecutors said Monday that Abdullah Puteh did not comply with state bidding regulations when he purchased a Russian helicopter for the province .
The governor was arrested prior to last year 's tsunami .
Mr. Puteh , who denies the allegations , also faces a fine of up to $ 107,000 if he is convicted .
The case is seen as a key test of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono 's anti-corruption drive .
An aid group says more than 54,000 North Koreans are dead or missing after widespread flooding .
The South Korea-based Good Friends organization released that figure Wednesday and added that another 2.5 million people are believed to have been left homeless .
The new estimate is far higher than earlier death tolls .
The North Korean government has estimated the death toll in the hundreds .
Earlier this month , South Korea announced it will give an aid package worth more than $ 10 million to independent aid groups to help flood victims in North Korea .
North Korean officials formally requested the help from South Korea , after initially turning down aid offers from foreign relief agencies .
Seasonal rains have caused landslides and destroyed vital crops , raising concerns the impoverished country could face famine .
Russia and Moldova have reached a short term agreement on a new price for natural gas two weeks after Moscow cut supplies to the former Soviet state .
Moldova will pay $ 110 per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas over the next four months .
Talks on a fixed price will continue .
Moldova had been paying $ 80 for gas .
Russia 's state-owned natural gas company , Gazprom , wanted to double the price to bring Moldova in line with the world market .
Gazprom cut supplies to Moldova January 1 .
Russia also cut supplies to Ukraine the same day .
That dispute was settled three days later .
The man who trained 1,000 white pigeons to be released over Hanoi on the city 's 1,000-year anniversary says more than half the birds have been killed - many to appear on Vietnamese dinner tables .
In recent interviews , Pham Tai Thu has expressed his disappointment at the loss of the birds , which he had hoped would thrive as a lasting symbol of peace .
He said some of the birds have been poisoned or died of diseases , while others were captured and sold to restaurants .
Thu said he painstakingly raised the birds and trained them to return to the Hanoi Botanical Garden after their release during the city 's anniversary ceremonies in early October .
He said he had hoped they would create large flocks to represent the city 's emergence from decades of war .
Afghan officials say at least six suspected Taleban militants have been killed and 15 arrested , including one of the militia 's commanders , in separate incidents in southern Afghanistan .
The six insurgents were killed Sunday as they fled after attacking a security post close to Tirin Kot , the capital of restive Uruzgan province .
The officials say the Afghan National Army and US-led forces also captured 9 suspected Taleban fighters , including local commander Mullah Janan , in a village near Tirin Kot , and six others were arrested in another district of Uruzgan province .
Meanwhile , in the Souray district of neighboring Zabul province , one suspected Taleban rebel was killed and one was wounded by a bomb they were planting on a road used by Afghan and US forces .
Violence has surged ahead of next month 's parliamentary elections in Afghanistan .
Indonesia 's health ministry says a 31-year-old woman has died of bird flu , raising the national death toll from the disease to 102 .
Officials say the woman died late Thursday , at a Jakarta hospital .
She is at least the seventh person to die this year from the disease .
They say the woman was from Tangerang , a city outside of Jakarta , and that she lived in a neighborhood with backyard farms and near a traditional market that sells poultry .
Most cases in Indonesia involve contact with infected poultry .
Bird flu has killed more people in Indonesia than any other country since it began spreading in Southeast Asia in late 2003 .
The World Health Organization says 224 people around the world have died from the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu since 2003 .
Health experts fear it will mutate into a form that could be easily spread among humans , triggering a global pandemic .
A new United Nations report says melting glaciers and ice sheets caused by global warming could disrupt drinking and agricultural water supplies for up to 40 percent of the world 's population .
The report released Monday said the depletion of ice caps could also contribute to global warming because the ice sheets reflect the sun 's heat away from the Earth 's surface .
It also warns that such low-lying countries as Bangladesh and Indonesia could face severe flooding by melting glaciers and rising sea levels .
Global warming will be a major topic at this week 's Group of Eight summit in Germany .
German Chancellor and summit host Angela Merkel says she will not compromise in getting the G8 nations to agree to cut greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming .
Led by a group of military families , about 200 people have held a rally in Washington to show support for President Bush and the war in Iraq .
The participants gathered on the National Mall Sunday carried banners and signs proclaiming support for the more than 130-thousand U.S. troops deployed in the war-torn country .
Speakers hailed the efforts to bring democracy to Iraq and Afghanistan and denounced those who protest against it .
The rally came a day after 100-thousand people gathered on the Mall , demanding the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq , in the largest such demonstration since the war began .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan is expected to ask for manpower and equipment for a peacekeeping force for Sudan when he meets with President Bush later Monday .
Mr. Annan is scheduled to meet with Mr. Bush at the White House to discuss a peacekeeping mission for Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region .
The peacekeeping force has been mandated by the U.N. Security Council to take over from an African Union force of seven thousand .
Last week , Mr. Annan said the U.N. force will have to be bigger and better equipped , which , he said , will require the participation of big and powerful countries with highly trained troops - including the U.S. U.S. officials have said they hope to arrange a U.N. mission to Darfur by the end of this month .
Fighting between rebel and government forces in Darfur has killed tens of thousands and displaced two million
The U.S. military says an F15 fighter jet crashed in eastern Afghanistan early Saturday , killing the two crew members on board .
A military statement says the plane went down during an operation in the region .
The military did not indicate why the plane went down , but the statement said the crash was not caused by " hostile fire . "
Coalition forces are engaged in a major offensive in southern Afghanistan to drive Taliban militants out of their strongholds , and to maintain security ahead of a presidential election in August .
On Friday , a roadside bomb killed 11 civilians , including five children , as they were traveling to a shrine in southern Afghanistan 's Kandahar province .
The attack happened in Spin Boldak district , a major cross border route between Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Health workers have fanned out in northern and western Sudan to vaccinate more than five million children against the crippling effects of polio .
United Nations officials say fighters in the western Darfur region laid down their weapons Monday at the start of the three-day campaign .
The United Nations is working with Sudan 's government and the World Health Organization to carry out the vaccinations , which will include southern Sudan and other areas in coming weeks .
Officials say the massive program was needed after the virus was detected in more than 100 people , mostly in the Sudanese capital , Khartoum .
A UNICEF spokeswoman told the Associated Press that the cases have been traced to Nigeria , where local officials in the northern state of Kano boycotted a vaccine drive in 2003 .
Kano officials later agreed to resume polio immunizations , using an alternate source of vaccine .
Russia 's Economic Development and Trade Minister says leading state firms should stay in the private sector , weeks after a state-owned company gained control of a major private competitor .
In an interview with the Kommersant daily , Minister German Gref said state-owned Rosneft and its new unit Yuganskneftegas should be privatized , in case they become one state-owned company .
Rosneft gained control of privately-owned Yuganskneftegas last month after a government-ordered auction .
Yuganskneftegas was a leading unit of oil giant Yukos , which was owned by oil tycoon and Kremlin critic Vladimir Khodorkovsky .
The purchase has raised fear among liberal economists that the government is nationalizing Russia 's energy industry .
Mr. Khodorkovsky is in prison on fraud charges .
President Bush has called on Arab nations to help Palestinian leaders reach a peace agreement with Israel , and to work toward a larger reconciliation with the Jewish state .
Mr. Bush made the comments in his weekly radio address delivered from Kuwait Saturday during a tour of the region .
He said the United States will do all it can to encourage negotiations , but he said the international community has a responsibility to support the peace effort as well .
The president said he believes leaders can reach an agreement defining a Palestinian state this year , but he said the United States can not impose such a deal .
He said he will urge Arab leaders in the Gulf to do their part , during his visits to their nations over the next few days .
Mr. Bush met with the Israeli and Palestinian leaders in Jerusalem and Ramallah earlier this week as part of his Mideast tour .
Nigerian police are searching for 15 school children who were kidnapped in southeastern Nigeria by gunmen .
Police said Tuesday the kidnappers hijacked the school bus the children were riding in and have demanded a ransom of more than $ 100,000 .
They say the attack took place early Monday while the nursery and primary school children were being driven to the Abayi International School , in Abia state .
There have been a number of kidnappings for ransom in Abia state , near Nigeria 's oil-rich Niger Delta region .
Most of the kidnappings in the Niger Delta initially involved foreign oil workers , but more recently attackers have also targeted the children and relatives of wealthy Nigerians .
Most of those who are abducted are later released unharmed , usually after a ransom is paid .
An Ariane rocket has lifted off from Kourou , French Guiana , carrying seven satellites , including at least one that is to gather intelligence for France 's military .
The Helios 2A military satellite , launched from the European Space Agency 's center , is to gather both optical and infrared intelligence .
The other satellites include the Parasol designed to study cloud formations in the upper atmosphere .
Pope Benedict left Rome Saturday for Australia , where he will join hundreds of thousands of young people celebrating World Youth Day .
The pope told reporters that he would use his 10-day pilgrimage to Australia to offer apologies to victims of sexual abuse by priests , as he did during his recent trip to the United States .
He called such abuse " incompatible " with behavior required of priests .
In a telegram to Italian President Giorgio Napolitano just before leaving , the pope said he was filled with a great desire to meet the youth of the entire world to exhort them to become courageous witnesses of the love of Christ .
The pope will arrive in Darwin , Australia on Sunday .
The International Whaling Commission is meeting in the northern U.S. state of Alaska to decide whether to drop a moratorium on commercial whale hunting .
The ban was enacted in 1986 to help prevent several species of great whales from becoming extinct .
Representatives from 75 member countries will debate the issue during their annual meeting , which ends Thursday .
Pro-whaling nations such as Japan , Norway and Iceland argue that the ban can be lifted since whale populations have recovered .
Approval from 56 member nations would be needed to overturn the ban .
Last year , IWC members voted 31-30 against a similar motion to repeal the ban .
Norway and Iceland are currently the only member nations to openly ignore the moratorium .
Japan , which kills about 1,000 whales a year , says it hunts the animals strictly for scientific purposes , although the meat is sold to restaurants and shops .
Tony Blair Russian officials say British Prime Minister Tony Blair will not attend the upcoming World War II commemorations in Moscow .
The Kremlin Friday said Mr. Blair expressed regret that intensive work on forming a new Cabinet would prevent him from attending the ceremonies Monday .
Mr. Blair 's Labor Party on Thursday won a third straight general election victory .
The Kremlin says Mr. Blair announced the decision in a phone call to Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Dozens of world leaders , including President Bush , are to attend the events in Moscow .
Zimbabwe 's President Robert Mugabe has freed three men who were jailed for murder and sabotage as they battled South Africa 's anti-apartheid African National Congress in 1988 .
Zimbabwean state media reports the president pardoned the Zimbabwean nationals on humanitarian grounds .
The three ( Kevin Woods , Michael Smith and Phillip Conjwayo ) were sentenced for the murder of a Zimbabwean driver they hired to deliver a bomb to a house owned by the African National Congress .
The bomb detonated and killed the driver before he reached the destination .
South Africa 's apartheid government granted the men citizenship after the crime .
South Korea 's military says it is preparing for the possibility that North Korea may try to provoke a naval skirmish along their disputed sea border .
A Defense Ministry report to parliament Wednesday said the military is preparing for the possibility that the North may launch attacks on naval ships or seize South Korean fishing boats .
Relations have been steadily deteriorating in recent weeks as Pyongyang has sealed off its border .
North Korea has also ordered the expulsion of hundreds of South Koreans working at a joint industrial estate in the North .
The North says its actions are in protest of what it calls " South Korea 's confrontational policies . "
Ties have steadily worsened since conservative South Korean President Lee Myung-bak stepped into office in February .
Mr. Lee campaigned on pledges to take a tougher stance on cross-border ties .
His election marked the end of 10 years of liberal rule in South Korea .
Colombia 's second-largest rebel group has released a soldier it kidnapped last month , turning him over to the Red Cross on Thursday .
Red Cross officials say the hostage , identified by El~Tiempo newspaper as Anderson Mauricio Zapata , is in good health .
The Associated Press quotes the rebel group known as ELN as saying that the release is meant to contribute to peace talks with the government .
In recent months , ELN delegates have held peace talks with the Colombian government , after decades of civil war pitting at least two rebel groups against the national army .
The country 's largest rebel group , known as the FARC , has refused to participate in peace talks .
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel , he was so frightened at his vast size that he ran away .
After a time , perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the beast 's temper , he summoned courage enough to approach him .
Soon afterwards , observing that he was an animal altogether deficient in spirit , he assumed such boldness as to put a bridle in his mouth , and to let a child drive him .
Use serves to overcome dread .
Investors got a mixed bag of U.S. economic information on Friday .
The huge General Electric corporation reported an 18 percent increase in profits in the last three months of 2004 .
GE officials say strong industrial sales along with an " excellent " global economy helped them make nearly $ 5.4 billion during the period .
Measured by its value on the stock market , GE is the biggest U.S. corporation .
Researchers say U.S. consumers have a different view of the economy .
On Friday the University of Michigan said its index of consumer confidence declined 1.3 percent in early January , to a reading of 95.8 .
Experts track consumer confidence for hints about future consumer spending , which drives much of the economic activity in the United States .
U.S. authorities have declared a public health emergency for the entire Gulf Coast region and warned of the possible spread of diseases in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina .
Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt warned of worsening sanitary and health conditions in the stricken areas , and said officials are gravely concerned about potential outbreaks of cholera , typhoid and other illnesses .
He called on residents to use caution when consuming food and not to drink standing water .
He told a news conference in Washington that authorities are setting up a network of up to 40 medical shelters that will have a total of up to 10,000 beds .
He said those who need further treatment will be moved to facilities elsewhere .
Homeland Security Chief Michael Chertoff said the situation in the region remains very dangerous .
Officials have warned of unstable structures and have called on residents not to return to the affected areas .
British police have questioned Prime Minister Tony Blair in their investigation of charges that his Labor Party awarded seats in the upper house of parliament in exchange for millions of dollars in political contributions .
A spokesman for the prime minister says the informal interview took place Thursday at his Downing Street office .
He said Mr. Blair did not have a lawyer present and was treated as a witness rather than a suspect .
The probe was launched after the Scottish National Party alleged that Mr. Blair had nominated wealthy businessmen for non-elected seats in the House of Lords in exchange for loans to his Labor Party .
Earlier this year , authorities said they were probing questionable loans worth 26 million dollars that helped bankroll the Labor Party 's 2005 elections campaign .
Police arrested Labor 's chief fundraiser , Michael Levy , earlier this year in connection with the probe .
They later released him on bail .
The governor of Colombia 's Arauca state has escaped unharmed from a bomb attack on his motorcade .
A government spokesman says explosives planted under a bridge detonated Tuesday as Governor Julio Enrique Acosta Bernal 's motorcade passed through Arauca city , the provincial capital .
The governor 's armored vehicle was heavily damaged but no one was seriously injured .
Governor Acosta Bernal has survived eight attacks during his political career .
Authorities in Arauca province say they suspect the latest attempt to kill him could have been staged by rebels from the FARC - the Revolutionary Armed forces of Colombia .
Colombia 's main oil fields are located in Arauca state , near the border with Venezuela .
Frequent activity by rebels and other criminal gangs has forced the government to keep the area under virtual military control for the past three years .
Britain 's High Court has cleared the way for a Tunisian terror suspect to be extradited to Spain to face charges of helping the September 11 hijackers .
Hedi Ben Yousseff Boudhiba is accused of belonging to an al-Qaida cell that provided false passports and money to the planners of 2001 attacks on New York and Washington .
Boudhiba was arrested in Liverpool in August of 2004 as he tried to board a flight to Barcelona .
Britain agreed to extradite Boudhiba to Spain after he was indicted by a Spanish judge .
Lawyers for the 45-year-old Tunisian tried to block the move , arguing he is mentally disabled .
But British Justice Janet Smith rejected Boudhiba 's appeal , saying she was confident Spanish authorities would determine if he is fit to stand trial .
The U.S. dollar hit record lows against the euro Tuesday .
It took more than one dollar and 48 cents to buy one euro .
The dollar has been battered by a series of problems , including continuing gloom in the key U.S. housing sector , and the slowing U.S. economy .
Some speculators are selling dollars because they expect the U.S. central bank will try to stimulate the economy by cutting interest rates again soon .
Lower U.S. interest rates can cut the return on some investments .
The falling dollar is prompting some oil-rich nations around the Persian Gulf to consider ending the practice of linking the value of their currencies to that of the dollar and instead peg the value to a " basket " of other currencies .
Such a move would reduce demand for dollars , and further weaken the U.S. currency .
Police in the western Indian state of Maharashtra say 26 women drowned after two boats capsized in the Wainganga River late Saturday .
Local authorities say four women and two crew members managed to swim to safety , but that eight women are still missing .
Police say the women - poor farm laborers on their way home from work - started panicking after seeing a bolt of lightning .
Their panicked movements caused the boats to capsize .
The accident happened in Bhandara district , some 925 kilometers northeast of the state capital , Mumbai .
Google , one of the Internet 's most successful companies , is gearing up to compete better with its popular rival , Facebook .
The Wall Street Journal reports Google is holding talks with makers of on-line games in the hope of boosting profits by offering a new service to its many customers .
Advertisers pay the Internet giants for the right to post advertising that reaches the hundreds of millions of people who use the services .
The fast-growing on-line gaming sector of the industry could boost revenue by attracting larger audiences and holding them for a longer time .
The U.S. dollar fell to a seven-month low against the yen and near-record lows compared to the euro on Monday .
Analysts say the huge gap between what the United States buys abroad and what it sells hurts the dollar 's value .
The U.S. budget deficit also contributes to the dollar 's decline .
On a visit to Ireland , U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow said Washington supports a " strong dollar " but said the value is best set by open markets .
He was re-stating long-standing administration policy .
Economists say a weaker dollar makes goods exported from the United States less expensive and more attractive on foreign markets .
The Pakistani government has summoned envoys of nine European countries to protest the publication of cartoons of the prophet Mohammed .
On Saturday , diplomats from France , Germany , Italy , Spain , Switzerland , the Netherlands , Hungary , Norway and the Czech Republic were called to the Foreign Ministry in Islamabad to hear the protest from the world 's second-largest Muslim nation .
A spokesperson said the diplomats were told that freedom of expression is not a license to disparage the values and beliefs of other people .
The cartoons , published in European newspapers , have enraged Muslims because Islamic tradition forbids any depiction of the prophet Mohammed to prevent idolatry .
The diplomatic protest comes a day after Pakistan 's parliament denounced the publication of the cartoons .
Cuba 's state newspaper has published new photographs of ailing leader Fidel Castro , which show him greeting Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
The communist daily Granma said the two leaders met in Havana on Sunday , to mark Mr. Castro 's 80th birthday .
The photographs show the Cuban leader laying in bed , shaking hands with Mr. Chavez and receiving a portrait of Mr. Castro as a gift .
Mr. Castro has not been seen in public since he underwent surgery more than two weeks ago to stop intestinal bleeding .
Sunday , a communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde published a message from Mr. Castro , saying he will fight for his life .
He urged Cubans to be optimistic about his health , but warned of possible " adverse news . " Mr. Castro temporarily handed power to his brother , Raul , because of the surgery last month .
The United States is sending an official observer mission to Sunday 's Palestinian election .
The State Department says the delegation will be led by Senators John Sununu and Joseph Biden and will include prominent Palestinian-Americans .
The team plans to visit polling stations and meet with Israeli and Palestinian officials .
The State Department says successful elections will require close cooperation between Israel and the Palestinians .
Earlier Tuesday , Israeli tanks fired shells in northern Gaza , killing seven Palestinians , six of whom were members of the same family .
The Israeli military says the tanks fired at militants who had fired mortars into a nearby Jewish settlement .
But witnesses say the victims were farmers and that militants had fled by the time the tank shells hit .
The death toll from a bomb blast in Indian Kashmir has risen to at least 14 people , after more people succumbed to their injuries .
Security officials say the explosion , Monday , at a busy market in Pulwama , south of Srinagar , also wounded more than 70 others and damaged a school , a police station and several shops .
The officials say three soldiers are among the dead .
Authorities say the bomb was planted aboard a truck carrying construction materials .
The charred remains of a man who they say detonated the explosion was recovered from the scene .
Police fired tear gas to disperse mobs of angry and grief-stricken people who poured into the streets of Pulwama to denounce the attack .
No one has claimed responsibility for the bombing .
But the French News Agency quotes a military official who blames Islamic militants for the blast .
Recent studies show that children who do not get enough sleep tend to have some emotional problems as well as weight gain later in life .
As VOA 's Melinda Smith reports , the research seems to blame the parents .
Pakistani security forces backed by helicopter gunships have pounded suspected militant hideouts near the border with Afghanistan .
The violence Friday is the latest in a series of attacks in the North Waziristan area , where the Pakistani military has been battling Taleban and al-Qaida militants .
There has been no official word on casualties .
This assault comes as local and military officials continue to search for 16 missing soldiers believed to be kidnapped by Taleban militants .
The men disappeared on Thursday while traveling to a military base in South Waziristan in Pakistan 's northwestern tribal region .
Also on Thursday , Pakistani security forces said at least 10 militants were killed during a military operation in North Waziristan .
A military spokesman says the militants were killed while fleeing the site of a roadside bombing that wounded five soldiers .
Pope Benedict is urging nuclear-armed nations to get rid of their arsenals .
The pope issued the plea Saturday at the Vatican after Japan 's new ambassador to the Holy See presented his credentials to the pontiff .
Pope Benedict called nuclear weapons a source of tension and mistrust .
He said the 65th anniversary of bombings of the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki should serve as a reminder of the horror nuclear weapons can cause .
The United States dropped atomic bombs on both cities in August of 1945 , killing more than 200.000 people .
Japan surrendered unconditionally shortly afterwards , ending World War Two .
Pope Benedict praised Japan for setting an example since the bombings , for always trying to find peaceful solutions to conflicts .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is expected Wednesday to present his proposals for constitutional reform to the National Assembly .
Specific plans for the reforms have not been released , but Chavez has previously said he would like to end presidential term limits .
Currently the president may serve no more than two six-year terms .
The National Assembly is expected to approve his changes , as it is controlled by Chavez supporters .
If the plan passes the legislature , Venezuelan citizens must vote in a referendum to accept or reject it .
Former Salvadoran President Francisco Flores has withdrawn his candidacy to head the Organization of America States , just days ahead of the scheduled vote .
Mr. Flores ' decision to step aside Friday leaves two candidates in Monday 's election -- Chilean Interior Minister Jose Miguel Insulza and Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez .
Officials from 34 nations will meet in Washington to choose a new secretary-general .
Mr. Flores said he wanted to avoid splitting regional votes with Mexico 's candidate , Mr. Derbez .
The United States , which endorsed Mr. Flores ' candidacy , says it respects his decision .
A State Department official says Washington will consult with its OAS partners to elect the best possible candidate .
The post became vacant in October , when former Costa Rican President Miguel Angel Rodriguez resigned to face corruption charges at home .
Russia says it withdrew its last troops based in Georgia Thursday , months ahead of schedule .
A train carrying the last 150 Russian troops and military equipment left the Georgian city of Batumi on the Black Sea late Wednesday night and crossed into Armenia early Thursday .
It marks the end of two centuries of Russia 's military presence in Georgia .
However , Russia still maintains peacekeeping forces in Georgia 's breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has accused the Russian troops of supporting the separatists and wants the Russian peacekeepers replaced with United Nations forces .
Russia has based troops at former Soviet bases in Georgia since 1991 and had promised to pull them all out by 2008 .
Pakistan 's former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto says the participation of the country 's two main opposition parties will help ensure next month 's elections are free and fair .
She told reporters Tuesday that the government will either allow a fair vote or it will so thoroughly manipulate the results that the rigging will be exposed .
Opposition leaders discussed boycotting the elections but failed to agree on a set of demands for taking part .
Ms. Bhutto 's Pakistan People 's Party and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif 's Pakistan Muslim League Party , the largest opposition parties , have now said they will participate .
On Monday , Mr. Sharif said Ms. Bhutto undermined a united opposition boycott of the polls by not supporting the reinstatement of deposed Supreme Court judges .
The body of Coretta Scott King - the widow of slain U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. - has arrived back in the city where she lived , Atlanta , in the southern state of Georgia .
Police cars early Wednesday escorted a hearse carrying her body to a funeral home .
Local reports say funeral arrangements have not yet been made .
Mrs. King died early Tuesday at an alternative medicine clinic in Mexico .
Doctors say the 78-year-old was battling ovarian cancer and ultimately died of respiratory failure .
The death of the woman known as the " first lady of the civil rights movement " brought expressions of sadness as well as tributes from civil rights advocates , politicians and religious leaders .
Mrs. King carried on her husband 's work after his assassination , creating the Martin Luther King Jr. Center For Non-Violent Social Change in Atlanta .
The U.S.-based toy giant , Mattel , has recalled about 155,000 of its toys in the United States because they contain small parts that pose a risk of choking for children .
A statement from the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said Tuesday the recall involves a play kitchen learning toy made in Mexico and imported by Fisher-Price , a division of Mattel .
The commission said there have been 48 reports of small parts separating from the toy , including two reports of children gagging on pieces and one of a child who choked on a piece .
The European Commission has confirmed that Mattel also is recalling about 17,000 toys in Europe because of the same child safety concerns .
Mattel has recalled tens of millions of Chinese-made toys in recent months because of what are described as design flaws and toxic levels of lead .
The United Nations refugee agency says many residents who fled the Iraqi city of Fallujah before a November U.S.-led offensive to crush insurgents , are waiting until after the January 30 elections to decide whether they will return .
About half of the city , which is home to more than a quarter-of-a-million people , has been re-opened for returning residents .
But the U.N. agency estimates that fewer than 10,000 have returned to stay .
Through interviews conducted by its local partners , the refugee agency says many Fallujans are reluctant to return because of the tense security situation and the lack of services , including hospitals , water and electricity .
Many are waiting until after the parliamentary elections to see how the situation is affected .
Others have bought land outside Fallujah , indicating they do not plan to return to the devastated city .
Health officials in Bangladesh are launching a campaign to vaccinate at least 18 million children against polio after a nine-year-old girl was diagnosed with the disease earlier this year .
The health ministry says the campaign will start Sunday and will focus on children under the age of five .
The government had thought it had eradicated polio , with no new cases reported since 2000 .
But last month , polio was confirmed in a girl from the eastern district of Chandpur .
The girl was first stricken in January .
The World Health Organization reports that a lab in India linked the virus carried by the girl to a strain found in India where polio is still common .
China says Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is set to visit the country this month , amid signs the two nations are looking to increase their energy ties .
In a statement Tuesday , the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced that Mr. Chavez will visit Beijing from August 22 to August 27 .
The leaders are expected to discuss oil exports , as China seeks fresh energy supplies to fuel its rapid economic growth .
Venezuela has some of the world 's largest oil reserves and is trying to increase its fuel shipments to China .
Mr. Chavez has said he wants oil exports to China to reach 300,000 barrels a day .
The Venezuelan leader 's visit to China will follow recent trips to Russia , Iran , Vietnam and Mali .
Chinese officials say they may dam a major river to stop a toxic chemical slick from reaching Russia , and the city of Khabarovsk .
The China Daily reports water ministry officials are doing a site survey to study the feasibility of the temporary dam project suggested by Russia .
China has for weeks been evaluating methods to deal with 100 metric tons of highly poisonous benzene that flowed into the the Songhua River after a chemical plant explosion November 13 in the city of Jilin .
The slick could reach the Russian border as soon as Sunday .
It has already disrupted the normal flow of fresh water to millions of Chinese who live near the river .
President Bush has telephoned his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai to express his support for Sunday 's legislative elections .
A White House spokesman says Mr. Karzai told President Bush that his nation was ready to vote , and that the people of Afghanistan were enthusiastic about the polls .
The Afghan leader also invited Mr. Bush to visit and address the new parliament once it convenes .
Meanwhile , the election campaign in Afghanistan has officially ended , with candidates making their final pitches .
With campaigning forbidden 48 hours before the polls open , candidates scrambled to woo voters , while organizers raced to spread their message on how to cast the ballots .
More than 12 million Afghans are registered to vote Sunday to elect a national parliament and local councils in all 34 provinces .
Afghan officials say suspected Taleban insurgents have killed two more pro-government Muslim clerics , just days after a bomb Friday killed a mullah in a mosque in the eastern Khost province .
The officials say Mullah Mohammad Gul was gunned down late Sunday while walking home after prayers at a mosque in Lashkargah , the capital of southern Helmand province .
Hours later , unknown assailants broke into a home of the head of the religious council for eastern Kunar province , Noor Ahmad Jan , and shot him dead .
Following the Friday killing , at least 5,000 Afghans staged a peaceful protest in Khost , urging the government to provide better security for religious leaders .
In the past , Taleban insurgents have killed several influential clerics who had denounced the militants and expressed support for President Hamid Karzai .
Afghanistan 's lower house of parliament has approved a law that would grant amnesty to all Afghans accused of human rights abuses during the past 25 years of conflict in the country .
The bill adopted Wednesday would rule out the prosecution of any political or militia group involved in the country 's wars .
Supporters of the law say it will promote reconciliation and peace in Afghanistan .
But , some Afghan lawmakers and government officials say there can not be peace if war criminals escape justice .
International rights groups have urged the Afghan government to hold trials for Afghans accused of rights abuses , including some who are members of parliament .
The amnesty law must be approved by the upper house of parliament and signed by President Hamid Karzai to take effect .
Insurgents pressing a campaign of violence against Iraq 's Shi'ite Muslims struck again Saturday , detonating a car bomb at a market on the outskirts of Baghdad , killing at least 14 people .
Hospital and security officials say at least 10 other people were wounded in the early evening attack in a poor Shi'ite Nahrawan neighborhood .
Since Wednesday , a wave of bombings and shootings in and around Baghdad has killed more than 200 people and injured some 600 others .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military reports it has captured two key al-Qaida leaders in the northern city of Mosul .
The military says the men - Taha Ibrahim Yasin Becher and Hamed Sa'eed Ismael Mustafa - directed the terrorist organization 's daily operations and were responsible for numerous attacks against Iraqi and coalition forces .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is in India for talks on economic cooperation and climate change .
Ms. Merkel arrived in New Delhi Monday , in her first visit to the country as chancellor .
She is expected to meet Tuesday with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President Prabtibha Patil .
Ms. Merkel also has meetings scheduled with India 's vice president , parliamentary leader , and opposition leader .
The officials are expected to discuss political cooperation , efforts to slow global warming and trade ties .
The German leader said in a speech Friday that Germany should expand its ties with India , as it has with China , both nations which have seen their economies grow rapidly in recent years .
Trade between India and Germany amounts to about $ 15 billion a year .
A Lebanese lawmaker wounded in the February bombing in Beirut that killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has died of his injuries .
Former Lebanese minister of economy Bassel Fleihan passed away Monday in a hospital in Paris .
Mr. Fleihan was riding in the car with Mr. Hariri on February 14 when a huge bomb detonated outside their motorcade .
The blast instantly killed the former prime minister .
Mr. Fleihan , one of Mr. Hariri 's top aides , suffered severe burns over most of his body .
Reports from Beirut say Mr. Fleihan is the 21st victim to die as a result of the bombing .
George W. Bush
President Bush says he does not think the published photos Friday of a nearly-naked Saddam Hussein in his prison cell will spark more anti-American sentiment in Iraq .
Questioned by reporters at the White House , Mr. Bush said a photo does not inspire murderers .
He said the insurgents are motivated by a vision of the world that is , " backward and barbaric " and by a desire to thwart freedom in Iraq .
The White House said the president was briefed earlier by senior aides about the incident and strongly supports what it said is " the aggressive and thorough investigation that is already under way . "
Indonesia says it has captured one of the nation 's most wanted terrorist suspect , Abdullah Sonata .
Authorities said two of his aides were arrested and another follower was killed during coordinated raids Wednesday on the main island of Java .
Sonata , a follower of the deceased terror leader Noordin Mohammed Top , is accused of playing a key role in recruiting terrorists and setting up a training camp that was discovered last month in western Aceh province .
Police said participants in the camp had been planning an armed attack on luxury hotels favored by tourists and an assault aimed at killing the president and foreign guests during independence celebrations in August .
A bomb hidden inside a backpack was also discovered during Wednesday 's raids , police said .
A day earlier , a court sentenced two men to prison for assisting Noordin Top , who was killed during a police raid in Central Java last September .
Seismologists say a strong earthquake has struck off the coast of the South Pacific island nation , Vanuatu .
Officials at the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in the U.S. state of Hawaii say there is no threat of a tsunami .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the 6.7 magnitude quake hit 75 kilometers southeast of the city of Lugansville on Vanuatu 's second largest island of Espiritu Santo .
Scientists say the earthquake 's epicenter was 150 kilometer below the earth 's surface .
There are no immediate reports of any injuries or major property damage .
Vanuatu is an archipelago of some 80 islands located about 2,200 kilometers off the northeast coast of Australia .
European Union energy officials will hold an emergency meeting next week amid concerns that the Russian-Ukrainian dispute over natural gas prices could affect EU gas supplies .
An EU statement released Friday says the meeting is aimed at finding a common approach .
It also expresses the European Commission 's concern about the situation , but says the EU top executive body remains confident an agreement will be reached .
A Russian cut-off of supplies to Ukraine will reduce the amount of natural gas flowing through the main pipeline toward Europe .
But the commission says there is no risk of a gas shortage in the short term .
German officials say they are hoping for a quick resolution to the dispute .
Government spokesman , Ulrich Wilhelm says officials have been in contact with both sides at a working level , but will not mediate .
Indian authorities say separatist rebels have killed 16 Indian soldiers in an ambush in the country 's northeastern Tripura state .
Police say the soldiers were guarding a road construction project near the town of Dangabari when they were ambushed Tuesday morning .
Reports say some 50 rebels attacked the soldiers , killing 15 .
Another soldier died of his wounds while being brought to a local hospital .
One rebel was killed in the firefight .
Police officials also say the rebels took weapons and ammunition from the dead soldiers .
Authorities have blamed the National Liberation Front of Tripura - which is fighting for an independent homeland in the area - for the attack .
At the close of World War I , the Czechs and Slovaks of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire merged to form Czechoslovakia .
During the interwar years , having rejected a federal system , the new country 's leaders were frequently preoccupied with meeting the demands of other ethnic minorities within the republic , most notably the Sudeten Germans and the Ruthenians ( Ukrainians ) .
On the eve of World War II , the Czech part of the country was forcibly annexed to the Third Reich , and the Slovaks declared independence as a fascist ally of Nazi Germany .
After the war , a reunited but truncated Czechoslovakia ( less Ruthenia ) fell within the Soviet sphere of influence .
In 1968 , an invasion by Warsaw Pact troops ended the efforts of the country 's leaders to liberalize Communist Party rule and create " socialism with a human face . "
Anti-Soviet demonstrations the following year ushered in a period of harsh repression known as " normalization . "
With the collapse of Soviet-backed authority in 1989 , Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a peaceful " Velvet Revolution . "
On 1 January 1993 , the country underwent a " velvet divorce " into its two national components , the Czech Republic and Slovakia .
The Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in 2004 .
Pakistani intelligence officials say an air strike by a suspected U.S. drone ( unmanned aircraft ) has killed at least six people in a northwestern tribal region near the Afghan border .
Officials said the missile struck a house next to a Muslim school in South Waziristan , in an area believed to be a stronghold of al-Qaida militants .
They said the identities of those killed in the strike were not immediately known .
There have been more than 30 missile strikes targeting alleged militants in Pakistan since August .
They are believed to have been carried out by U.S. remote-controlled aircraft .
U.S. authorities have refused to confirm or deny responsibility for the attacks .
The Pakistani government has strongly condemned the air strikes , saying they undermine Pakistan 's counter-terrorism efforts .
The U.S. military in Iraq says three Marines have died of wounds sustained due to enemy action in western Al Anbar province .
A statement issued Thursday said the Marines died Wednesday but did not provide further details .
Also Thursday , Iraqi witnesses said U.S. forces opened fire on a minibus in Baghdad , killing four people and wounding eight .
They say the bus was carrying workers through the city 's Sadr City neighborhood .
The U.S. military has not commented on the report .
And Iraqi officials say 100 people were killed in insurgent attacks and sectarian violence across the country Wednesday .
A U.N. report says more than 3,700 Iraqi civilians were killed in October - - the highest monthly toll since U.S. forces invaded the country in 2003 .
A Kenyan court has released nine Somali men accused of piracy , saying it has no jurisdiction to try their case .
High Court Judge Mohammed Ibrahim ordered the men to be released and repatriated Tuesday after saying Kenyan courts could not deal with matters that take place outside of the country .
The nine men were captured by a German naval vessel in the Gulf of Aden in March 2009 after an attack on the German-owned freighter MV Courier .
The ruling comes just days after a separate court released 17 suspected Somali pirates due to lack of evidence .
More than 100 suspected Somali pirates are currently being held in Kenyan prisons .
With no direct taxation , the islands are a thriving offshore financial center .
More than 93,000 companies were registered in the Cayman Islands as of 2008 , including almost 300 banks , 800 insurers , and 10,000 mutual funds .
A stock exchange was opened in 1997 .
Tourism is also a mainstay , accounting for about 70 % of GDP and 75 % of foreign currency earnings .
The tourist industry is aimed at the luxury market and caters mainly to visitors from North America .
Total tourist arrivals exceeded 1.9 million in 2008 , with about half from the US .
About 90 % of the islands ' food and consumer goods must be imported .
The Caymanians enjoy a standard of living roughly equal to that of Switzerland .
Turkish authorities say 20 people have been wounded in a bomb blast at a resort in western Turkey .
The explosion occurred Sunday in the Aegean coastal town Cesme , a popular tourist destination near the port city of Izmir .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the blast .
The regional governor said two foreigners were among the injured , but did not identify their nationalities .
In April , a bomb attack in the nearby resort town Ksusadasi left a police officer dead .
A Kurdish separatist group claimed responsibility for that blast .
New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin says his city can only support half the population it did before Hurricane Katrina struck in August .
In an interview with the Washington Post published Wednesday , Mayor Nagin says New Orleans ' shattered infrastructure can support about 250,000 residents over the next year .
That compares with nearly 500,000 people who lived in the city before the hurricane .
Mr. Nagin says more than 250,000 homes are uninhabitable and that some neighborhoods are still lacking basic services .
Thousands of New Orleans residents who evacuated the city remain in temporary housing in other cities and states .
Mayor Nagin has vowed to resurrect the city , some 80 percent of which was flooded after Katrina .
Maoist rebels in Nepal say they will stop military operations during the country 's most popular religious festival .
Rebel leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal , who is also known as Prachanda , said Friday the insurgents will halt attacks from October 20 - 28 in recognition of the festival of Dasain .
The rebels have observed similar cease-fires in the past .
The insurgency for a communist state to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy has killed more than 10,000 people since it began in 1996 .
A North Korean cargo ship has dropped anchor in the South Korean port of Ulsan , marking the first visit of its kind in more than two decades .
The ship will be loaded with fertilizer intended to help the North deal with perpetual food shortages .
South Korea agreed to give 200,000 tons of fertilizer to the North after four days of bilateral talks concluded last week .
Two more North Korean vessels are expected to cross into South Korean waters later today and early Monday .
South Korea began shipping fertilizer by land on Saturday when several trucks crossed the heavily fortified Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas .
Some of information for this report provided by AFP .
Adolfo Aguilar Zinser , Mexico 's former ambassador to the United Nations , has died in an automobile accident in central Mexico .
Authorities in the state of Morelos say the 55-year-old ex-diplomat was driving on a highway Sunday when his vehicle hit a bus .
Mr. Aguilar Zinser was a vocal opponent of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq during his tenure at the UN . Mexican President Vicente Fox removed Mr. Aguilar Zinser from the UN post after he accused the United States of treating Mexico with disdain .
Mr. Aguilar Zinser spent years as a leftist politician in the Mexican legislature .
But he later joined forces with the conservative Fox , and played a key role in Mr. Fox 's historic election in 2000 .
He served Mr. Fox as national security advisor before taking the UN post .
The Saudi branch of the al-Qaida terror network is promising more attacks on Saudi oil facilities , after failing in an attempt to bomb the world 's largest oil refinery , located on the kingdom 's Gulf coast .
In a statement , al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula said their militants will not stop attacks until " infidels " ( Westerners ) have been eliminated from Saudi soil .
The Internet statement , posted Saturday , has not been authenticated .
It identifies the two terrorists who died in Friday 's attack , and calls the assault on the Abqaiq facility a success .
Authorities say both of the attackers were on a Saudi list of 36 most-wanted militants .
Saudi authorities say two security officers also died in Friday 's attack , and said the explosion did not affect operations at the plant .
An Israeli airstrike has killed five Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip .
Israeli military officials said on Saturday the five were preparing to launch a rocket attack against southern Israeli communities when they were hit .
No other information was available on the militants ' identities .
The militant Palestinian group Hamas controls the Gaza Strip where Israel has routinely targeted rocket launchers .
The senior leader of Hamas says the Palestinian militant group will not disarm or change its policies toward Israel , following its landslide election victory .
Speaking from his base in Damascus , Syria , Khaled Mashaal said Saturday Hamas and the Palestinian people will be as effective in politics and reform as in fighting Israel .
He also rejected international threats to cut off Palestinian aid , saying the Palestinian people will not be blackmailed .
Hamas , which routed the Fatah party in parliamentary elections Wednesday , has claimed numerous suicide attacks against Israel in recent years and has vowed to destroy the Jewish state .
Tensions remain high in the Palestinian territories Saturday with fresh calls for demonstrations by Fatah party activists .
Witnesses say Fatah gunmen climbed the roof of the Palestinian parliament in Ramallah and fired shots in the air as supporters cheered below .
Israel 's justice ministry says it has ordered a criminal investigation into Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's role in the sale of an Israeli bank two years ago .
Media reports say police will question Mr. Olmert about allegations that he tried to help two friends buy Bank Leumi , one of Israel 's largest financial institutions , which was going private .
The friends were unsuccessful in their bids .
Israeli media have said police might also want to question Mr. Olmert about another case involving appointments he made to a business authority when he was industry minister in 2004 .
The investigation announced Tuesday is the latest involving the prime minister .
The state comptroller has already investigated Mr. Olmert 's real estate dealings but has found no wrongdoing .
Recently Mr. Olmert 's personal secretary , Shula Zaken , was placed under house arrest as part of a corruption probe .
Iraqi officials say President Jalal Talabani has arrived in Jordan for medical treatment after falling ill from hard work in recent days .
Iraqi sources say President Talabani experienced a drop in blood pressure , but the sources ruled out a possible heart attack .
His son , Qubad Talabani , told VOA Kurdish service that his father is suffering from exhaustion and dehydration .
Media reports quoting the officials say Mr. Talabani will be treated at a hospital in the Jordanian capital , Amman .
A statement from Mr. Talabani 's office said there is no cause for concern .
The Iraqi president is in his early 70s .
Pakistani security officials said a suspected U.S. drone ( unmanned ) aircraft has fired missiles at a site in the tribal region of northwestern Pakistan .
Officials said the missiles struck a compound Saturday in South Waziristan , near the Afghan border , killing at least eight people .
Their identities were not immediately known .
The region is seen as a stronghold of al-Qaida and Pakistani Taliban militants .
Suspected U.S. drones have carried out at least 30 missile strikes on militant targets in northwest Pakistan over the past year .
The United States rarely discusses the strikes , which Pakistan has criticized as counterproductive and a violation of its sovereignty .
The latest missile attack comes as Pakistani security forces are battling extremist militants elsewhere in northwestern Pakistan , around the Swat valley .
Israeli President Shimon Peres has strongly denied a report that he offered nuclear warheads to the white minority South African government in 1975 when he was the Israeli defense minister .
In a statement Monday , Mr. Peres said " there exists no basis in reality for the claims published " by the British newspaper , The Guardian .
Mr. Peres said The Guardian wrote its article based on the " selective interpretation of South African documents and not on concrete facts . "
The report published Sunday quoted newly released South African documents about top secret meetings in which Mr. Peres allegedly offered the warheads to South African officials in 1975 .
Israel has never confirmed or denied the widely held belief that it has nuclear weapons .
South Africa developed nuclear weapons during white minority rule , but dismantled its nuclear program in 1991 .
Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf has directed law enforcement agencies to launch a national crackdown against banned extremist organizations , targeting their weapons , finances and meeting places .
In a meeting of many top police officers from across the country on Friday , General Musharraf issued a stern directive .
He demanded that all hate material , including pamphlets , books , CDs and videos be removed from all Pakistani public markets by December .
The president says the crackdown is intended to stop the " extremist minority " harming Pakistan 's interests and tarnishing the image of Islam .
Pakistan 's new campaign against extremism follows last week 's suicide bombings in London .
Three of the four bombers are alleged to be Pakistani Britons .
U.S. officials say Uzbekistan has given the United States formal notice that it must leave an airbase that is a key link for military and humanitarian supplies sent into Afghanistan .
State Department spokeswoman Nancy Beck said Saturday Uzbekistan delivered a notice to the U.S. embassy in Tashkent late last week informing officials of the termination of the agreement to use the Karshi-Khanabad airbase .
The Central Asian nation asked the United States to remove all of its aircraft , personnel and equipment from the base within six months .
Uzbekistan did not give a reason for the move , but Ms. Beck said this was a bilateral agreement that could be terminated at any time by either nation .
Relations between Tashkent and Washington have been tense since May , when President Islam Karimov 's government killed hundreds of people while suppressing protest demonstrations in Andijan province , near the border with Kyrgyzstan .
The United Nations Security Council on Thursday unanimously agreed to extend the U.N. mission in Afghanistan for another year .
The 15-member council 's approval focuses on improving U.N. coordination with the Afghan government and NATO-led forces fighting Taliban insurgents .
The resolution also empowers the new U.N. special envoy in Afghanistan - Norwegian diplomat Kai Eide - to directly coordinate support provided by international donors to the Afghan government .
A lack of coordination among dozens of aid agencies has led to failed reconstruction projects .
The United States and Britain hailed the adoption of the resolution .
Meanwhile , violence in Afghanistan continues .
An exchange of gunfire between British troops and Afghan police in southern Helmand province Thursday left an Afghan policeman dead .
Local officials say British soldiers opened fire on the policemen patrolling in Lashkar Gah , the provincial capital .
The incident is under investigation .
China 's first private airline is expected to take to the skies this year .
The official Xinhua news agency says Sunday Okay Airways is undergoing a final official review , and should be cleared to begin operations after Nov. 20 .
Xinhua said the Beijing-based airline plans to lease six U.S.-made Boeing 737 aircraft for domestic cargo and passenger charter flights .
Two other private airlines , United Eagle Airlines and Air Spring , reportedly hope to begin flying next year , once a review of their applications is completed by the Civil Aviation Administration of China .
Latvia is a small , open economy with exports contributing significantly to its GDP .
Due to its geographical location , transit services are highly-developed , along with timber and wood-processing , agriculture and food products , and manufacturing of machinery and electronic devices .
The bulk of the country 's economic activity , however , is in the services sector .
Corruption continues to be an impediment to attracting FDI flows and Latvia 's low birth rate and decreasing population are major challenges to its long-term economic vitality .
Latvia 's economy experienced GDP growth of more than 10 % per year during 2006 - 07 , but entered a severe recession in 2008 as a result of an unsustainable current account deficit and large debt exposure amid the softening world economy .
GDP plunged 18 % in 2009 - the three Baltic states had the world 's worst declines that year .
Thanks to strong export growth in 2009 and 2010 , the economy experienced its first real quarterly GDP growth in over two years ( 2.9 % ) in the third quarter of 2010 .
The IMF , EU , and other international donors provided substantial financial assistance to Latvia as part of an agreement to defend the currency 's peg to the euro .
This agreement calls for reduction of Latvia 's fiscal deficit to below 3 % of GDP by 2012 , in order to meet the Maastricht Treaty criteria for euro adoption .
DOMBROVSKIS ' government enacted major spending cuts to reduce the fiscal deficit to a maximum of 8.5 % of GDP in 2010 , and Latvia has approved a 2011 budget with a projected deficit of 5.4 % of GDP .
The majority of companies , banks , and real estate have been privatized , although the state still holds sizable stakes in a few large enterprises .
Latvia officially joined the World Trade Organization in February , 1999 .
EU membership , a top foreign policy goal , came in May 2004 .
Latvia 's current major financial policy goal , entrance into the euro zone , is targeted for 2014 .
A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th century .
Known as Siam until 1939 , Thailand is the only Southeast Asian country never to have been taken over by a European power .
A bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional monarchy .
In alliance with Japan during World War II , Thailand became a US treaty ally in 1954 after sending troops to Korea and fighting alongside the US in Vietnam .
A military coup in September 2006 ousted then Prime Minister THAKSIN Chinnawat .
December 2007 elections saw the pro-THAKSIN People 's Power Party ( PPP ) emerge at the head of a coalition government that took office in February 2008 .
The anti-THAKSIN People 's Alliance for Democracy ( PAD , aka yellow-shirts ) in May 2008 began street demonstrations against the new government , eventually occupying the prime minister 's office in August and Bangkok 's two international airports in November .
After an early December 2008 court ruling that dissolved the ruling PPP and two other coalition parties for election violations , the Democrat Party formed a new coalition government and ABHISIT Wetchachiwa became prime minister .
In October 2008 THAKSIN fled abroad in advance of an abuse of power conviction and has agitated his followers from abroad since then .
THAKSIN supporters under the banner of the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship ( UDD , aka red-shirts ) rioted in April 2009 , shutting down an ASEAN meeting in Pattaya .
Following a February 2010 court verdict confiscating half of THAKSIN 's frozen assets , the UDD staged large protests between March and May 2010 , and occupied several blocks of downtown Bangkok .
Clashes between security forces and protesters , elements of which were armed , resulted in at least 92 deaths and an estimated $ 1.5 billion in arson-related property losses .
These protests exposed major cleavages in the Thai body politic that continue to hamper the current government .
The ABHISIT administration has announced a plan for a general election some time in 2011 ahead of its full term by the year-end .
Since January 2004 , thousands have been killed as separatists in Thailand 's southern ethnic Malay-Muslim provinces increased the violence associated with their cause .
Ukraine 's parliament speaker and the European Union say fresh elections are needed to end the dispute over the former Soviet republic 's presidential runoff .
The speaker , Volodymyr Lytvyn , made the suggestion Saturday , during an emergency session to debate the disputed election .
Meanwhile , the Dutch foreign minister , speaking on behalf of the EU presidency , also called for fresh elections in light of numerous allegations of fraud .
Also due to meet Saturday , is a multilateral committee tasked with resolving the political stalemate .
It comprises representatives of both candidates : opposition challenger Viktor Yushchenko , and Moscow-backed Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
Mr. Yushchenko late Friday called for fresh elections to be held on December 12 .
Disputed official results indicate the pro-Western politician narrowly lost the runoff .
The Israeli military has proposed a plan to destroy up to 3,000 Palestinian homes in the southern Gaza Strip , in order to dig a huge trench meant to halt Palestinian weapons smuggling from nearby Egypt .
Israel 's Maariv newspaper says the plan presented to the Israeli Attorney General proposes a trench along the five-kilometer border separating southern Gaza from Egypt .
One scenario calls for a 10-meter wide trench that would destroy 200 homes .
A 20-meter wide proposal would eliminate 700 homes , while a 30-meter trench would destroy 3,000 homes .
Israel began soliciting bids last year for a 25-meter wide trench authorities hoped to have dug before Israel 's planned Gaza withdrawal later this year .
The Gaza Egypt border is rife with weapons smuggling and is the scene of frequent fighting between Israeli troops and Palestinians .
Iran has denied receiving a proposal from Moscow to build a joint uranium enrichment facility in Russia .
An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman , Hamid Reza Asefi , told a news conference Sunday that Tehran has received no such proposal , and would only consider proposals that recognize Iran 's right to enrich uranium on its own soil .
Russia said Saturday its embassy in Tehran presented Iranian authorities with a note saying its offer to set up a joint uranium enrichment facility in Russia remains valid .
Under a deal signed earlier this year , Moscow agreed to supply enriched uranium fuel for Iran 's Bushehr reactor .
But Russia also demanded the return of spent fuel to ensure Tehran did not reprocess it into bomb-grade material .
The United States and the European Union say Tehran is using its nuclear program to develop atomic weapons .
Iran says it is only for peaceful purposes .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has ordered his government to cut all contact with the Palestinian Authority after a militant attack late Thursday killed six Israeli civilians .
Mr. Sharon 's office said there would be no contact until newly elected Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas reins in the militants and halts attacks .
All border crossings with Gaza were also closed .
Palestinian Cabinet minister Saeb Erekat called on Mr. Sharon to reconsider his decision , saying the best way to restart the peace process is to resume dialogue .
Earlier Friday , Mr. Abbas , who is to be sworn-in Saturday , condemned both the militant attack , as well as deadly Israeli raids in the occupied territories , saying they do not benefit the peace process .
The militant groups Hamas , the Popular Resistance Committee and al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades all claimed responsibility for Thursday 's attack on the Karni crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
Authorities in Turkey have released five people who had been detained since Saturday on suspicion of planning to attack Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan .
The Anatolia news agency said police rounded them up in the southern city of Adana , shortly before the prime minister visited the city for an election campaign rally .
Judicial officials did not say why the five were released , and provided no details about the alleged plot .
Fans of The Sopranos can now own a little piece of the much-honored TV series : bricks from mobster Tony Soprano 's fictional hangout , Satriale 's Pork Store .
Manny Costeira , who owns the Kearny , New Jersey building , is selling 2,000 white stone bricks online before the structure is demolished next month .
A condominum complex called The Soprano will be built on the site .
Costeira said the bricks will sell for $ 25 to $ 50 apiece , and will include a serial number and certificate of authentication .
Speaking to The Jersey Journal of Jersey City , Costeira said he 's received a few angry e-mails asking why he 's demolishing the joint where Tony and his pals often gathered .
The Sopranos aired its 86th and final episode on June 10 , 2007 .
The boom in wind power is creating opportunities in some economically depressed areas of the United States .
In the Great Plains states of the country , where wind is in plentiful supply , the growing number of wind energy projects is helping to supplement declining farm incomes and creating new jobs .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Lebanon 's government has removed the country 's top prosecutor and fired three security chiefs , in a push to purge the new administration of pro-Syrian influence .
Prime Minister Najib Mikati 's cabinet also appointed a new police commander and a new head of military intelligence .
Thursday 's moves came as a United Nations team arrived in Lebanon to prepare for an international probe of the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
A second U.N. team is verifying that Syria 's military and intelligence withdrawal from the country on Tuesday is complete .
Mr. Hariri was killed February 14 in a Beirut bombing that stunned Lebanon and reverberated in Western capitals .
The Lebanese opposition accused Beirut and its Syrian sponsors of complicity in the assassination , despite denials from both capitals .
Two weeks later later , massive protests led to the downfall of Lebanon 's pro-Syrian Prime Minister Omar Karami and his government .
This small , sub-Saharan economy suffers from anemic economic growth and depends heavily on both commercial and subsistence agriculture , which provides employment for 65 % of the labor force .
Some basic foodstuffs must still be imported .
Cocoa , coffee , and cotton generate about 40 % of export earnings with cotton being the most important cash crop .
Togo is the world 's fourth-largest producer of phosphate .
The government 's decade-long effort , supported by the World Bank and the IMF , to implement economic reform measures , encourage foreign investment , and bring revenues in line with expenditures has moved slowly .
Progress depends on follow through on privatization , increased openness in government financial operations , progress toward legislative elections , and continued support from foreign donors .
Togo is on track with its IMF Extended Credit Facility and reached a HIPC debt relief completion point in 2010 at which 95 % of the country 's debt was forgiven .
Economic growth prospects remain marginal due to declining cotton production and underinvestment in phosphate mining .
Palestinian and Israeli officials say two Palestinian militants have been killed in an Israeli missile attack in the Gaza Strip .
An Israeli army spokesman says troops saw members of the militant group Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades firing a rocket toward Israel Saturday .
He said the militants were struck by an Israeli missile after leaving the launch site in a car .
The strike came a day after Israeli aircraft fired missiles into a car in southern Gaza , killing six people , including a senior Palestinian militant and his child .
Israel says it has the right to strike at militants it says are planning attacks on the Jewish state .
In southern Gaza , Palestinian police say two people were killed today near Rafah in the collapse of a tunnel under the Gaza-Egypt border .
Iraqi authorities have imposed tight security in and around Baghdad and the holy city of Karbala where Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims are converging for a major religious ceremony .
Officials expect two million pilgrims to join the main Ashura observances Thursday , marking the 13th century martyrdom of Imam Hussein , one of Shi'ite Islam 's most revered leaders .
Government troops have sealed off Karbala to vehicles and are body-searching the arriving pilgrims .
Police in Baghdad also imposed tight security in Kadhimiya district - another site of Shi'ite pilgrimage - and set up checkpoints around the city .
Despite the security , Iraq 's higher education minister survived a bomb attack in Baghdad that wounded three people .
In the past , insurgents have attacked pilgrims during Ashura observances .
In 2004 , about 170 people were killed .
The U.S. Peace Corps is evacuating 35 of its volunteers from western Kenya because of the violence that has rocked the country since the disputed December 27 presidential election .
The relief agency says the volunteers are safe , and should arrive in the main Tanzanian city of Dar es Salaam Saturday .
The Peace Corps has 144 volunteers based in Kenya , although the organization says 22 of them are currently out of the country .
An agency statement says the remaining volunteers have been " consolidated in a variety of locations . "
The U.S. Embassy in Nairobi is asking U.S. citizens in Kenya to remain indoors while the fighting continues , and urges them to consider leaving for their own safety .
More than 300 people have been killed in the post-election violence .
A prominent leader of France 's far-right has gone on trial for questioning whether the Nazis used gas chambers in the Holocaust .
Bruno Gollnisch , the deputy leader of France 's National Front Party , appeared in court in Lyon to answer charges of " disputing crimes against humanity . "
Gollnisch , a member of the European parliament , received a five-year suspension from his post as a professor of Japanese at Lyon University after he made the comments at a press conference in 2004 .
He faces a possible one-year prison sentence if he is convicted .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United Nations may need to take a greater role in peacekeeping efforts in Sudan 's war-weary Darfur region .
Ms. Rice says the 7000-member African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur is " pretty close to the limits " of its ability to contain violence , amid mounting tensions along the border between Sudan and Chad .
The Secretary of State says the Sudanese government should cooperate with the international community , instead of opposing proposals to increase the peacekeeping force in the country 's restive western region .
Three years of war in Darfur between rebel groups and a pro-government Arab militia have displaced millions of people from their homes .
The conflict has killed tens of thousands of people .
Opera fans in New York were recently treated to a rare performance of one the most ambitious musical theater pieces ever produced .
Bernd Alois Zimmermann 's Die Soldaten was mounted in the cavernous drill hall of the Park Avenue Armory .
VOA 's Behnam Nateghi takes us behind the scenes for a closer look at the staging of this German opera .
Iran 's Intelligence Minister has accused the United States of spying on the country 's nuclear sites .
Iran 's state-run news agency ( IRNA ) quoted Ali Yunesi as saying the United States has been using satellites and other tools to spy on Iran for a long time .
Earlier this week , the Washington Post reported that unmanned surveillance drones have been flying over Iran for almost a year to search for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and detect weaknesses in air defenses .
Meanwhile , the head of the U.N. nuclear agency says there has been no evidence so far to support U.S. suspicions that Tehran is developing nuclear weapons .
In an interview with four U.S. newspapers ( including the Post ) , Mohamed ElBaradei also called for greater U.S. participation in diplomatic efforts to engage Iran and North Korea in talks about their nuclear programs .
The United Nations has appealed for $ 265 million in humanitarian aid for Iraqis this year .
The appeal Tuesday is aimed at providing emergency relief in such areas as food , water , education , sanitation , protection , housing and shelter , and health and nutrition .
The U.N. hopes some of the aid will focus on immediate relief for newly displaced people who can not access their food rations .
An estimated 4 million Iraqis are in need of food assistance .
The United Nations humanitarian coordinator for Iraq , David Shearer , says U.N. officials must respond rapidly to people who need support .
The U.N. believes more than 2 million Iraqis have become internally displaced since the start of the Iraq war in 2003 , and another 2 million have fled to Jordan and Syria .
A doctor for the World Health Organization in Ivory Coast says 40 people have died from meningitis and more than 200 have been infected in rebel-held parts of the country .
Spokesman Aka Bian Tanoh blamed the outbreak on the lack of vaccines and trained medical workers , who have fled violence in the area after a failed coup attempt sparked at civil war in 2002 .
He says a vaccination campaign is urgently needed in the northeastern region of Bouna , noting that immunizations have dropped sharply since last year .
Ivory Coast has been divided between the rebel-held north and government-controlled south since the end of violence in 2003 .
Monday marks the one year anniversary of the tsunami that devastated the Indian Ocean coastline from Malaysia to East Africa and memorials to the victims of that natural disaster have already begun .
In Thailand Saturday , some mourners prayed , others observed a moment of silence while separately the country 's sea gypsy tribe , the Moken , banged drums , chanted and made offerings to the sea .
The tsunami , triggered by a massive earthquake off Sumatra island , killed more than 200,000 people and left more than two million people homeless .
Many ceremonies are planned for Monday , when survivors , relatives of victims , government officials and others in the region and around the world mark the day that one of the worst natural disasters in recent history occurred .
China 's health ministry has confirmed the country 's eighth human infection of bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency reports officials said a six-year-old boy in central Hunan province first showed symptoms of the disease on December 24 and is now being treated for the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Also today , Indonesia 's Health Ministry says initial medical tests indicate a 39-year-old man died of suspected bird flu earlier this month .
A ministry official says the man had been in contact with sick poultry .
If the World Health Organization laboratory confirms the man had the H5N1 strain of bird flu , it will raise Indonesia 's death toll from the virus to 12 .
Bird flu is known to have killed more than 70 people in Asia since 2003 .
World oil prices declined below $ 54 a barrel Friday after hitting records above $ 58 early this week .
The easing of prices follows a U.S. government report on Wednesday showing an increasing supply of crude oil in the U.S. market , and growing refinery operations to turn out gasoline .
While prices have dropped , they are still about 44 percent higher than they were a year ago .
Most economists surveyed by the Bloomberg financial news service say high oil prices and rising interest rates will slow U.S. economic growth later this year .
Sudan 's army says it has killed at least 300 rebels in clashes this week , while losing more than 70 of its own troops .
Sudanese state media on Saturday quoted General Al-Tayeb al-Musbah Osman as describing the fighting with the Darfur region 's Justice and Equality Movement .
The Sudanese general said government forces destroyed rebels ' vehicles during the series of clashes .
Violence in Darfur has increased since insurgent forces withdrew from peace talks in May .
The region has experienced seven years of war and instability since rebels took up arms in 2003 , accusing the government of neglecting the western region .
The United Nations says fighting and related violence have killed 300,000 people and displaced more than 2.7 million .
Sudan puts the death toll at 10,000 .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says she thinks the insurgents in Iraq are " losing steam " ( energy ) as a political force .
In an interview with Time magazine published Sunday , Ms. Rice said she believes the insurgents have become more and more isolated from Iraq 's people as the country 's political process moves forward .
Ms. Rice also argued that the media focus too much on violence in Iraq and not enough on what she called Iraq 's " rather quiet political progress . "
Survivors of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that swept across Indonesia 's northern Aceh province marked the first year anniversary of the disaster - with prayers for the more than 169,000 people who perished in the disaster in Indonesia .
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono led a group of a thousand tsunami survivors , dignitaries , and aid workers in prayer on the shoreline in Banda Aceh where the tsunami struck .
" We stand here together today in remembrance of that suffering paying respect , once again , to the good men and women and all the children lost to the sea , " he said .
All across Aceh province , bells rang and people bowed their heads in prayer .
It was the worst hit region of the 12 Indian Ocean nations hit by the tsunami , which killed more than 230,000 people .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has presented his nominee for prime minister to parliament , one week after the death of the previous minister .
Mr. Saakashvili praised the work of the nominee , Finance Minister Zurab Nogaideli , and said he deserves the promotion .
Lawmakers are to vote on the nomination Friday .
Parliament speaker Nino Burdzhanadze had said the choice was quite unexpected , and other candidates had been under consideration .
Mr. Nogaideli would succeed Zurab Zhvania , who was found dead last week in a Tbilisi apartment from what officials say was accidental gas poisoning .
In his address to parliament Thursday , President Saakashvili also hailed the achievements Georgia has made in battling corruption and boosting the economy since his election just over one year ago .
He also said he is ready to travel again to Russia to strengthen relations with Moscow .
A report commissioned by the British government says the country 's foreign policy contributes to driving some members of its Muslim population toward extremism .
The report says perceived injustices in Western foreign policy , especially in the Middle East , often trigger radical impulses in the Muslim community .
The report adds that criticism of British foreign policy should not be seen as disloyalty .
It says peaceful disagreement is a sign of a healthy democracy .
The Home Office organized seven working groups to prepare the report on the root causes of the July 7 suicide attacks by British Muslims that killed 52 people in London .
The groups made several recommendations , including creation of a British Islam website to counter extremist Islamic Internet sites .
At least four people , including a German peacekeeper , have been killed in two separate suicide attacks against the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
Local authorities say the two bombings Monday occurred within 90 minutes of each other on a 500-meter stretch of road near the offices of organizers of last September 's legislative elections .
They say the attackers rammed explosive-laden cars into vehicles belonging to the NATO-led peacekeepers , and that several people were wounded in the incidents .
Later in the day , NATO troops foiled what they believe was an attempted third attack by opening fire on a car racing toward the scene of the initial blasts .
Witnesses say at least two people in the car were killed .
A man identifying himself as a spokesman for the ousted Taleban said the group was responsible for the attacks and warned of more suicide bombings .
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad says Saddam Hussein 's conviction by an Iraqi court for crimes against humanity is an " important milestone " for the country .
Khalilzad says in a statement issued Sunday that " closing the book " on Saddam gives Iraq an opportunity to unite and build a better future .
He acknowledged that Iraq may face difficult times in the coming weeks , in a reference to fears the verdict will spark a sectarian backlash .
The U.S. ambassador praised the Iraqi judges and attorneys who worked on the trial for showing courage in the face of intimidation .
He says the trial demonstrates Iraq 's determination to hold Saddam and his co-defendants accountable for their crimes .
Three defense lawyers for Saddam were murdered during the trial , prompting the defense team to complain that Iraq 's government had not provided it with enough security .
Bermet Akayeva
The daughter of ousted Kyrgyz President Askar Akayev has unexpectedly appeared in parliament to assume the seat she won in disputed elections earlier this year .
Bermet Akayeva returned to Bishkek after weeks in self-imposed exile following a late March coup .
She told journalists outside the parliament Thursday that she does not expect any problems from the Kyrgyz people , nor does she fear prosecution .
Ms. Akayeva predicted that her brother Aidar , who also won a parliamentary seat , will return to Kyrgyzstan soon .
Last week , parliament voted to strip the members of Mr. Akayev 's family of immunity from prosecution .
Her father , who resigned last week after nearly 15 years in power , fled Kyrgyzstan after protesters ransacked his offices in Bishkek and the opposition seized power March 24 .
China 's parliament has passed legislation giving the country 's military a legal basis for attacking Taiwan if the island moves toward declaring independence .
The law was approved early Monday by the National People 's Congress - a largely rubber-stamp legislature that approves decisions made by the ruling Communist Party .
Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province , and opposes any moves by the island to boost its international profile .
The new law says China will employ " non-peaceful means " to prevent Taiwanese independence if efforts at peaceful reunification fail .
Chinese President Hu Jintao Sunday urged the armed forces to step up preparations for possible military struggle .
But , speaking after its passage , Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the new law is not a " war bill . "
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , speaking on American television ( ABC ) , urged both China and Taiwan to avoid actions that could raise tensions .
Turkish security officials say Kurdish rebels killed eight soldiers in an attack on an army outpost in eastern Turkey Monday .
They say several others were wounded when rebels rammed a vehicle into the post and threw a hand grenade in Tunceli province .
One attacker was killed in a shootout following the blast .
At least one other attacker escaped .
On Sunday , the Turkish military shelled a Kurdish rebel stronghold in northern Iraq .
But ground forces did not cross the border .
Turkey has been massing troops near the Iraqi border .
But U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates has warned Turkey against sending troops into northern Iraq to hunt down Kurdish rebels accused of carrying out terrorist attacks in Turkey .
The Kurdistan Worker 's Party , or PKK , has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 .
The United States , the European Union and Turkey classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
Thousands of demontrators have marched through the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , to demand the restoration of democracy and the withdrawal of strict new media laws .
Human rights activists , journalists , lawyers , teachers and students chanted slogans protesting restrictions on the media that allow the royal government to shut down newspapers and radio stations .
The new laws also call for longer prison sentences for journalists convicted of defamation .
Criticism of King Gyanendra and independent reporting on Nepal 's Maoist insurgency have been banned since the king seized absolute power on February 1 .
The Maoists have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
The king says his move was necessary to quell the insurgency , which has claimed more than 11,000 lives .
The leader of Brazil 's ruling Workers Party has resigned amid a bribes-for-votes scandal in Congress .
Jose Genoino announced his resignation Saturday at a news conference in Sao Paulo .
Later , the party elected Education Minister Tarso Genro as its new leader .
Mr. Genoino 's resignation comes amid allegations that the Workers Party paid $ 12,000 a month to several lawmakers to win their support on key votes .
The party denies the accusations .
Mr. Genoino is the latest senior official in President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 's government to leave his post .
Both the party treasurer and secretary-general stepped down recently .
The scandal also forced presidential chief of staff Jose Dirceu to resign last month .
President da Silva has been reshuffling his Cabinet to boost support for his governing coalition .
Pakistan and Jordan have called for a quick withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon and the creation of a Palestinian state .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf and Jordanian King Abdullah spoke to reporters after holding talks Tuesday in Islamabad .
General Musharraf said it is crucial to restore Lebanon 's sovereignty so that the root cause of the Middle East problems can be addressed .
King Abdullah said a just and lasting peace in the Middle East can only be achieved by establishing an independent Palestinian state , living side-by-side with Israel .
He urged the two sides to resume peace negotiations .
Pakistan does not recognize Israel , and has condemned the Jewish state for attacking Lebanon after last month 's kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers by Hezbollah fighters .
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN , whose hair had begun to turn gray , courted two women at the same time .
One of them was young , and the other well advanced in years .
The elder woman , ashamed to be courted by a man younger than herself , made a point , whenever her admirer visited her , to pull out some portion of his black hairs .
The younger , on the contrary , not wishing to become the wife of an old man , was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she could find .
Thus it came to pass that between them both he very soon found that he had not a hair left on his head .
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody .
The Israeli army says Israeli troops have shot dead a Palestinian gunman during a clash in the northern West Bank .
Army officials say Israeli soldiers were conducting a routine patrol early Sunday north of the city of Jenin when they spotted three armed men .
The soldiers opened fire on the group , killing one of them .
There were no Israeli casualties .
Shooting incidents in the northern West Bank have increased in the past two weeks after Israeli troops began raids in the area .
Israel completed a withdrawal from the Gaza Strips and four Jewish settlements in the northern West Bank last month .
Six people are missing and at least 42 injured after an explosion ripped through a sugar refinery in the southeastern U.S. city of Savannah , in the state of Georgia .
The blast caused a massive fire that firefighters were still trying to bring under control more than 12 hours after the explosion .
The refinery is owned by Imperial Sugar Company .
A company spokesman says the blast tore through a silo where refined sugar is kept .
He suspects sugar dust , which can be volatile , may have caused the explosion .
About 100 workers were inside the refinery at the time of the blast .
Zimbabwe 's ruling party has suspended six senior officials from their posts for five years , exposing an unprecedented power struggle within ZANU-PF .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports the six are also banned from running in key parliamentary elections in March .
The officials , including Energy Minister July Moyo , were initially suspended for six months .
They were accused last month of holding a secret meeting to oppose President Robert Mugabe 's choice of second vice president .
The post , granted to a woman for the first time in Zimbabwe 's history , is seen as a stepping stone for the presidency once Mr. Mugabe retires .
Two other top officials , Information Minister Jonathan Moyo and Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa , have also been implicated in the power struggle .
Both men have been dropped from the ruling party 's list of candidates in the parliamentary elections .
Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia has submitted his resignation to run for a seat in the Palestinian parliament in next month 's elections .
Mr. Qureia , a former Fatah party peace negotiator under the late Yasser Arafat , was required by law to leave office ahead of the January 25 polls .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas did not immediately name a replacement .
Late Wednesday , the rival Hamas party registered a slate of candidates headed by senior leader Ismail Haniyah .
The slate also includes two widows of prominent militants killed by the Israeli military .
Another candidate , Mariam Farhat , is the mother of three militant sons killed over the past three years by Israeli forces .
Meanwhile , the fourth and final phase of local council elections was completed Thursday in parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
U.S. economic troubles are being blamed for rising energy prices , but it is not just the price of oil that is going up .
The average grocery bill is also rising .
Twelve eggs now costs about 30 percent more than they did just a year ago .
And consumer advocates say Americans are not just paying more for some products .
In some cases , they are actually getting less .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf and visiting Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi have met in Islamabad for talks on nuclear nonproliferation and economic issues .
Japanese diplomats said Saturday the two leaders discussed Islamabad 's efforts to prevent leaks of Pakistani nuclear technology .
International concerns over possible such transfers emerged after Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan confessed last year to illegally selling nuclear technology to several countries , including Iran .
Mr. Khan is currently under Pakistani investigation , but few details have been made public .
The Associated Press quotes a Japanese official as saying Mr. Koizumi promised , as expected , a resumption of Japanese loans to Pakistan , ending a financial freeze imposed after Pakistan 's 1998 nuclear tests .
Mr. Koizumi 's one-day visit to Pakistan comes after his stop for talks Friday in India .
Israeli troops have shot dead a Palestinian militant in the West Bank .
Israeli army officials say soldiers killed Mahmoud Hammad , a member of the militant group Islamic Jihad , as he tried to escape from a house in the village of Raba , close to the West Bank town of Jenin .
They say the militant was carrying a weapon when he was shot .
Israeli troops have carried out frequent raids in West Bank cities and towns targeting militants spearheading a four-year-old Palestinian uprising .
Iraq has halted crude oil exports to South Korea , in protest of an exploration deal between Korean firms and the Kurdish regional government .
The annual contract between Iraq and South Korea 's top refiner , SK Energy , was due for renewal January 1 .
SK Energy says it has been told to back out of the Kurdistan deal if it wants exports to resume .
A consortium of South Korean firms led by the state-run Korea National Oil Corporation signed a deal with the Kurdish government to explore the Bazian oil field in the Dahuk region of northern Iraq .
The corporation says it will not change its plans .
South Korean energy officials say Iraqi crude accounts for less than four percent of total imports .
Officials say purchases will be made in the spot market to cover the shortage .
An official at Iran 's Interior Ministry says the estimated 1.5 million Afghan refugees illegally living in the country could face arrest and detention for up to five years .
He says Iranian officials now have legal authority to begin moving unregistered refugees into detention camps with prison-like conditions .
Iran began expelling tens of thousands of Afghan immigrants last April by loading them on buses and dropping them off at the Iran-Afghanistan border .
Several million Afghans fled to Iran after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan almost 30 years ago and from subsequent fighting among Afghan factions .
Iranian officials say the immigrants are causing a strain on the economy .
Since 2002 , the United Nations Refugee Agency has helped 800,000 Afghans in Iran return home .
But in recent years the number of returnees has declined because of increasing violence in Afghanistan .
Iraqi officials say they have stepped up security measures ahead of the Asia Cup final match between Iraq and Saudi Arabia to be played in Jakarta Sunday .
After last week 's semi-final victory against South Korea , 50 people were killed and 130 others wounded by two car bombs , when thousands of Iraqis poured into the streets to celebrate .
Authorities have announced a vehicle ban in parts of Iraq ahead of the game Outside the capital , U.S. military officials said coalition forces killed eight terrorists and detained 22 other suspects during operations Sunday targeting al-Qaida members across central Iraq .
The military also says the troops killed seven terrorists and detained one person during an operation near Muqudadiyah Wednesday and Thursday .
Earlier , U.S. military said coalition forces captured 16 suspected terrorists in raids Saturday targeting al-Qaida in Iraq .
Today , April 22 is Earth Day , a global event that began in 1970 and is credited by some with giving birth to the modern environmental movement .
Earth Day grew from an annual event in the United States to a global event in about 180 countries .
It 's a day of celebration in some places , but has also turned into a day of action and reflection and conversation and sometimes protest about the situation with our environment , particularly climate change .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has more .
The World Health Organization says an outbreak of Marburg virus in Angola is not yet over , as the death toll continues to rise .
A WHO spokeswoman , Aphaluck Bhatiasevi , says there have been some recent cases that do not have a clear link to previous cases , a finding the U.N. agency is concerned about .
Angolan officials say 292 people have died from Marburg out of a total of 336 people identified as having been infected by the virus .
So far , all those infected are believed to have contracted the disease in northern Uige province .
The virus kills quickly , spreading through contact with bodily fluids such as blood , excrement , vomit and saliva .
Officials in Djibouti say two of their soldiers were killed and at least 21 others wounded in a battle with Eritrean forces on their disputed border .
Djibouti military and diplomatic sources say the fighting began Tuesday in the northern Mount Gabla area .
Sporadic fighting was reported Wednesday .
Officials in Djibouti say the fighting began after several Eritrean soldiers deserted , crossing the border into Djibouti and drawing gunfire from the Eritrean troops .
The Eritrean government has not confirmed or denied the incident .
It did issue a statement saying it was surprised by Djibouti 's recent anti-Eritrean campaigns and refused to be drawn into what it called Djibouti 's " concocted animosity . "
The two Horn of Africa nations have been locked in a standoff since mid-April , when Djibouti accused Eritrean troops of illegally crossing into its territory .
The countries clashed over their border in the 1990s .
Dozens of commercial truck drivers honked their horns as they circled the U.S. Capitol Thursday to protest the rising cost of diesel fuel .
The drivers looped around the National Mall in Washington D.C. to draw attention to an issue they say is hurting their livelihood .
The average U.S. price of diesel fuel is $ 1.06 per liter .
That is up from 76 cents per liter a year ago .
Meanwhile , the average price of unleaded gasoline in the United States is 88 cents per liter .
That is up from 73 cents per liter this time last year .
Pakistani police say a bomb has exploded outside a Shi'ite mosque in the country 's northwest , killing at least four people .
The bomb went off in the city of Dera Ismail Khan Monday as worshipers were leaving the mosque after evening prayers .
The explosion destroyed parts of the mosque and wounded at least two people .
Police say they suspect the bomb was on a timer .
They do not know who planted the device .
Dera Ismail Khan in North West Frontier Province has a history of sectarian violence .
Last month , gunmen killed at least six Shi'ite Muslims in two suspected sectarian attacks in Dera Ismail Khan .
Most Pakistanis are Sunni Muslims , but Shi'ites make up about 20 percent of the country 's 160 million people .
The communities generally coexist peacefully , but militants from both sides have attacked each other since the 1980s .
Airport officials from around the world are cautioning passengers to " pack lightly " and arrive early as delays continue following Thursday 's arrest in Britain of key figures in an alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners .
British officials are asking passengers Friday to arrive prepared for security checks .
Travelers should have no hand luggage and items like prescription medicine should be kept in clear plastic bags .
Long lines are reported at Heathrow Airport , with many flights being canceled .
Asian airports have introduced new security measures Friday as well , banning all liquids and gels from cabins .
New Zealand also banned the substances from flights to Britain and the United States .
U.S. authorities have designated all U.S.-bound flights from Britain under a " severe " threat level , the highest level of alert .
All other international flights are operating under a " high " threat level .
China has signed a deal with Nigeria to build an $ 8-billion oil refinery near the city of Lagos , in another example of China 's investment in Africa .
The Lagos state government made the announcement Tuesday , saying that 80 percent of the money is coming from China and the other 20 percent from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation .
This new refinery is expected to produce some 300,000 barrels of oil a day in the Lekki Free Trade Zone in Lagos state .
The Lagos refinery is part of a larger deal to build three new refineries and a petrochemical complex in Nigeria .
The new projects are expected to increase the country 's production of refined oil from 450,000 barrels to 750,000 barrels per day .
Nigeria is one of the world 's biggest oil producers , but its current refineries operate far below capacity because of aging equipment and poor maintenance .
Monday is a national holiday in Japan .
It 's " Coming of Age Day , " a day of recognition for those who turn 20 years old this year .
Twenty is the age of adulthood in Japan , when a person is old enough to vote , drink or smoke .
Financial markets and many offices are closed for the holiday .
Municipal governments host special coming of age ceremonies for the 20-year-olds in their juristictions .
The ceremonies are held to encourage responsibility and self-reliance .
Young men usually wear suits to the ceremony .
Young women usually wear special kimonos bought or rented for the event .
President Bush has thanked U.S. and Iraqi troops for working to ensure a safe voting environment as Iraqis vote on a new constitution Saturday .
Mr. Bush conducted a video conference Thursday with members of the U.S. Army 's 42nd Infantry Division in Tikrit , Iraq , to discuss preparations for Saturday 's constitutional referendum .
First Lieutenant Greg Murphy told the president that Iraqi troops have taken the lead in security preparations for the vote .
He said conditions were different in the January elections for a transitional government , when coalition troops controlled security .
Captain David Williams says Iraqis are ready and eager to vote on the constitution .
He says voter registration in north-central Iraq is up 17 percent , which translates to about 400,000 new voters .
Approval of the constitution on Saturday would clear the way for national elections in December .
When treating people with Type Two Diabetes , doctors sometimes prescribe high doses of medications that lower blood sugar .
The American Diabetes Association recommends good control of blood sugars in order to reduce the risk of heart attacks .
But recently part of a large clinical diabetes study was halted after researchers found an increased death rate among those taking higher doses of blood sugar lowering medication .
The ACCORD trial , as it is called , is funded by several U.S. government agencies and the finding surprised many doctors .
The surprise death rate has lead some U.S. physicians to push an uncommon diet as a way to lower blood sugar .
VOA 's Shelley Schlender reports from Phoenix , Arizona .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has called on United States and Mexico to work together to control lawlessness along the border of the two countries .
Speaking in the Mexican state of Sonora Tuesday , Mr. Fox said the crime along the border is the shared responsibility of both governments .
Mr. Fox issued his call after the governors of two U.S. states , Arizona and New Mexico , declared states of emergency along their border with Mexico .
Both Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Bill Richardson of New Mexico have accused the U.S. federal government of not doing enough to control drug traffickers , illegal immigrant smugglers , and criminal gangs .
Asked about the governors ' actions , U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Mexico has taken significant steps to address violence on the border .
He said the U.S. and Mexican governments are working together " very closely " to improve border security .
A strong earthquake has struck off the coast of Indonesia , but no tsunami alert was issued .
The U.S. Geological Survey reported a 6.1 magnitude earthquake south of the main island of Java on Monday .
The quake struck about 15 kilometers under the sea .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage .
Another earthquake that struck off Java 's southern coast last week killed at least 64 people and damaged or destroyed more than 87,000 homes .
That magnitude-7.0 earthquake shook buildings and caused panic in the capital , Jakarta , about 200 kilometers away .
Indonesia 's 18,000 islands sit atop tectonic plates that frequently slam together to cause massive earthquakes .
Iran has expressed interest in continuing talks with the United States on Iraq , begun last month in Baghdad .
Iranian media quote Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying Tehran will view a continuation of the talks positively , if Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and other Iraqi officials call for them to take place .
Mottaki spoke after meeting Sunday in Tehran with Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh .
Late last month , the U.S. ambassador to Iraq , Ryan Crocker , held talks with his Iranian counterpart , Hassan Kazemi Qomi , on the security situation in Iraq .
During the talks , the U.S. urged Iran to stop supporting militias in Iraq .
Crocker said Tehran asserted that the coalition presence in Iraq was an occupation .
Tehran denies it is responsible for insurgent attacks in Iraq .
Last month 's meeting marked the highest-level talks between the U.S. and Iran in almost 30 years .
Two separate attacks in the southern Iraqi city of Basra killed at least 14 people , including four American security guards , on Wednesday .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber detonated his explosives filled car in front of a busy restaurant , killing 10 people and injuring 15 others .
Hours earlier , the four private American guards were killed in a roadside bomb blast in the Shi'ite dominated city .
In other developments , U.S. troops rescued American contractor Roy Hallums , who was kidnapped more than 10 months ago .
He is reported in good physical condition .
Separately , the U.S. military says Iraqi and American forces have carried out dozens of joint operations in Baghdad this week , detaining more than 50 suspected terrorists .
Palestinian authorities say raw sewage has swept through a Bedouin village in the northern Gaza Strip , killing at least four people .
Officials say sewage and mud completely submerged at least 25 buildings in Umm Naser village , after the earthen wall of a sewage pool collapsed Tuesday .
Hospital sources say at least 15 people were injured , and residents say scores of villagers are missing .
In 2004 , the United Nations warned that the sewage facility was operating well beyond capacity , but local government lacked the financial resources to construct a new facility .
Witnesses say angry villagers threw stones and opened fire on the convoy of Palestinian Interior Minister Hani al-Qawasmi , who went to inspect the damage .
Al-Qaida 's deputy leader , Ayman al-Zawahiri , is second after Osama bin Laden on the F.B.I 's list of most wanted terrorists .
The Egyptian-born doctor has become the terrorist organization 's most senior spokesman - appearing in a series of video , audio and print messages over the past three months .
In his most recent comment broadcast on videotape last week by Arabic broadcaster al-Jazeera , Zawahiri called on President Bush to confess that the United States has been defeated in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Ayman al-Zawahiri was indicted for his alleged involvement in the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam , Tanzania and Nairobi , Kenya .
He founded the Egyptian Islamic Jihad , a group that opposes the secular Egyptian government and seeks to overthrow it through violent means .
Zawahiri has been on the run since late 2001 after U.S.-led forces invaded Afghanistan .
U.S. President Barack Obama and his wife , Michelle , spent a portion of the Christmas holidays visiting troops and their families at a Hawaii Marine base .
The Obamas visited the same military base last year during their holiday vacation in the president 's home state .
Mr. Obama and the first lady are encouraging the public to support military communities , especially during the holidays when separation from family can be difficult .
Mrs. Obama says a " care package " or a simple " thank you " is an important gift to members of the military .
Iraqi officials say 11 of their soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb attack north of Baghdad .
The soldiers were killed as they patrolled Saturday , in a town north of the restive city of Baquba .
In a similar attack on Thursday , 10 American Marines were killed and 11 wounded near the western city of Fallujah .
In another development , the U.S. military says Iraqi and U.S. forces captured 18 suspected terrorists during operations Thursday in various parts of north-central Iraq .
Meanwhile , insurgents holding four western peace activists hostage have threatened to kill them unless all detainees in Iraqi and U.S. detention centers are freed by Thursday .
A British Muslim organization has sent a negotiator to Iraq to try to win the hostages ' release .
Lena once had two chickens .
One of them got terribly sick .
So she killed the other one to make soup to get the first one well again .
A 300-member delegation from South Korea has arrived in North Korea to take part in celebrations marking the fifth anniversary of the historic 2000 inter-Korean summit .
The delegation includes politicians and representatives from labor unions , religious and agricultural groups .
The June 15 , 2000 summit in Pyongyang marked the first and only time the leaders of North and South Korea have met .
South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-young leads a separate 40 member government delegation to Wednesday 's anniversary celebrations .
Mr. Chung is carrying messages from last week 's summit between South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun and President Bush , urging North Korea to return to the six-nation talks aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program .
Swiss food giant Nestle has resumed operations in Zimbabwe , after resolving a dispute with the government .
Nestle officials said Tuesday that government officials have assured the company they will not interfere with its business .
Nestle shut down its factory in Harare last month , citing harassment by Zimbabwean authorities .
It said officials had forced staff to accept milk from " non-contracted suppliers " and also questioned two managers .
The company had said in October that it would not buy milk from a farm owned by the wife of President Robert Mugabe .
The farm had been seized from white farmers under Mr. Mugabe 's controversial land reform program .
Critics say the Mugabe government 's seizure of white-owned commercial farms has devastated Zimbabwe 's economy .
Mr. Mugabe was forced to accept a power-sharing agreement with the longtime opposition MDC party last year .
China says it will launch its second manned space mission in September , 2005 .
Chinese state media says it will send two astronauts on the Shenzhou Six spacecraft for a five-day mission to circle the Earth .
Fourteen astronauts are currently training for the flight including Astronaut Yang Liwei , who became China 's first man in space when he flew aboard Shenzhou Five in October , 2003 .
China is only the third nation to launch a man into space , behind the United States and Russia .
One man was seriously wounded and several others injured in clashes between Bosnian Croats and Muslims in Mostar after Croatia 's loss in a World Cup football match Tuesday night .
Police said the fighting broke out between Croats disappointed by their team 's loss to Brazil and Muslims who had been cheering for Croatia 's opponents .
Police were sent in to try to stop the clashes , and 26 people were detained .
Six police officers were injured and one man suffered serious gunshot wounds .
Although the Bosnian war of the early 1990s is over , Mostar has remained divided between its Muslim and Croat communities who fought each other during the conflict .
A U.S.-based human rights organization alleges that detainees in U.S. custody in Iraq were routinely subjected to beatings , sleep deprivation , stress positions and other forms of abuse by American interrogators .
In a report released Sunday , New York based Human Rights Watch said the findings come from first-hand accounts from U.S. military personnel .
The report alleges that detainee abuse was an established and apparently authorized part of the detention and interrogation process .
Human Rights Watch used the report to call for a Congressional investigation into the scope of detainee abuse and allegations of involvement by higher level officials .
But the U.S. Defense Department has said that multiple reviews of prisoner interrogation methods have concluded that no uniformed or civilian leaders directed or encouraged the prisoner abuses committed in Iraq .
Iraqi officials have increased security in the holy city of Karbala where tens of thousands of pilgrims are gathering for Ashura , one of the most important holy days for Shi'ites .
Authorities have deployed at least 23,000 security force members around the city , located south of Baghdad .
Police say a roadside bomb targeting Shi'ite pilgrims exploded in Baghdad
Tuesday , killing at least 39 people .
Iraqi officials say at least four Shi'ite pilgrims were killed in a suicide bombing near the capital , Monday .
Ashura is celebrated by Shi'ite Muslims around the world .
It commemorates the death of Imam Hussein more than 1,300 years ago .
He was a grandson of the Prophet Mohammed .
United Nations agencies are appealing for immediate assistance to communities on the Somali coast affected by South Asia 's earthquake-generated tsunami .
The appeal was issued Friday by the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , which took part in an aerial assessment of the affected areas in northern Somalia .
Meanwhile , the number of dead in Somalia has climbed to at least 132 people , although the Associated Press quotes a senior Somali official as putting the number at 200 .
Many others remain missing .
The United Nations says it is difficult to get a clear picture of both the number of those killed and the extent of the damage because the region is remote and the conditions are harsh .
The U.N. World Food Program began distributing relief supplies Wednesday in the town of Hafun on the northern coast of Somalia .
The tsunami also took lives in Tanzania , Seychelles and Kenya .
Thousands of Iranians have gathered in the southeastern city of Bam to mark Sunday 's one-year anniversary of the earthquake that claimed more than 31,000 lives and devastated the ancient city .
Relatives and friends of survivors have been making pilgrimages to Bam 's cemetery to remember the dead with prayers , flowers and candles .
Despite President Mohammed Khatami 's pledge to rebuild , and help from the international community , much of Bam remains in ruins , and the slow pace of reconstruction has angered survivors .
The powerful quake shook the city before dawn on December 26 last year , killing thousands as they slept .
Yemen has executed an Islamic militant convicted of killing three American medical workers in 2002 .
Authorities say a firing squad killed Abed Abdul Razak Kamel in the central prison of Yemen 's Ibb province Monday , one day after President Ali Abdullah Saleh endorsed his death sentence .
Kamel opened fire on American medical staff at a Baptist hospital in the southern Yemen town of Jibla .
Authorities believe he may have been part of or linked to a terror network .
Pakistan-based Islamic militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir have announced what they are calling a " new jihad " or holy struggle to help victims of Saturday 's quake .
The group was originally known as Lashkar-e-Toiba .
But it changed its name to Jamaat-ud-Dawa after the United States blacklisted it as a terrorist organization .
It says its activists have launched a campaign throughout Pakistan to collect relief goods for quake victims in Pakistani Kashmir .
A spokesman for the group says all members of the group are busy in the new effort .
The charity has dispatched trucks carrying blankets , tents and food to quake-affected areas and it plans to send more .
The spokesman also was quoted as saying the group has set up three field hospitals in the worst hit Pakistani city of Muzaffarabad .
When fireworks light the sky at the Beijing Olympics opening ceremonies , Cai Guo-Quiang will be making art .
This Chinese born artist who now calls New York home creates artwork from fireworks and gunpowder .
He is currently designing the computer-controlled firework spectacle that will mark the start of the Beijing games .
Recently , his work was on display at New York 's Guggenheim Museum in an exhibit called I Want to Believe .
For producer Wang Yiru , Elaine Lu has the story .
Olympic champion Philipp Schoch of Switzerland and compatriot Ursula Bruhin have won World Cup parallel giant slalom snowboard events in Le Relais , Canada .
Schoch beat Austrian Andreas Prommegger in the final , winning both runs .
Schoch leads the World Cup standings with 1,700 points .
Countryman Heinz Inniger is second ( 1,630 points ) with Switzerland 's Gilles Jaquet third ( 1,460 points ) .
In the women 's final , Ursula Bruhin beat compatriot Fraenzi Kohli in both runs to take the title .
Another Swiss athlete , Daniela Meuli , finished third .
Bruhin is tied with French skier Julie Pomagalski atop the World Cup standings with 1,950 points .
Salt Lake City gold medalist Isabelle Blanc of France is third with 1,900 points .
Pakistan 's military says it has killed about 60 pro-Taliban militants in heavy fighting in the country 's northwest .
A military spokesman says fighter jets attacked militant camps in the Swat Valley inflicting heavy casualties .
The attacks took place near Bajaur where there has been heavy fighting between the military and militants since August .
The main town in the area , Khar has been under a strict curfew for several days .
According to the United Nations the fighting has displaced about 190,000 people .
The U.N. says many have fled into neighboring Afghanistan to escape the violence .
Insurgents in Iraq have carried out a series of attacks Tuesday north of Baghdad against the country 's security forces , killing at least 23 police and national guards .
Eighteen policemen were among the dead .
Authorities say a combination of gunmen and car bombs were responsible for the violence in and near the towns of Tikrit , Samarra , Balad and Baquba .
In Baghdad , officials say a senior National Guard officer survived an apparent assassination attempt when a car bomb exploded near his home .
At least six guardsmen were wounded in the blast .
U.S. Brigadier General Jeffrey Hammond told reporters in Baghdad that the U.S. military in Iraq expects an escalation in attacks and assassination attempts ahead of the January 30 elections .
Mauritania has asked for international aid to help thousands of homeless people after heavy rains caused mudslides in the eastern part of the country .
The country 's finance minister , Abderahmane Ould Hamma Vezzaz , said Sunday about 10,000 people in and around the town of Tintane were left homeless after heavy rains that started last week .
Those rains caused mudslides that wiped out homes and businesses in much of the town in southeastern Mauritania , near the border with Mali .
At least two people were reported killed in the mudslides and an unknown number of others are missing .
Russian news media reports say prosecutors have released two of 10 suspects detained in the killing of investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya .
The reports Thursday say authorities freed Oleg Alimov and Alexei Berkin .
Russian Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika Monday announced the arrest of 10 people in the case .
He said the murder was organized by a Chechen emigre who had led a group of contract killers in Moscow .
He said evidence as to a motive pointed to what he called attempts from abroad to destabilize Russia and discredit its leaders .
Russian news media reports earlier had named an agent of the Federal Security Service , Pavel Ryaguzov , as one of the suspects in the case .
But a military court in Moscow Thursday said his arrest is not linked to Politkovskaya 's murder .
The journalist was gunned down in her Moscow apartment building last year on October 7 .
Iranian authorities say a bomb exploded at a military parade in the northwest and has killed at least 12 people , wounding 70 others .
Reports from Mahabad say most of the victims are women and children .
The wives of two military officers are said to be among those killed .
The bomb went off at a military parade in the northwestern town Wednesday morning .
Similar events are being held around the country as it marks the beginning of the Iran-Iraq war , 30 years ago .
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the blast .
But provincial Governor Vahid Jalalzadeh blamed what he called " counter-revolutionary groups . "
The phrase is often used to refer to Kurdish militants in the region .
Mahabad lies close to the borders of Turkey and Iraq and is home to many ethnic Kurds and minority Sunni Muslims .
President Bush has met with Jordan 's King Abdullah at the White House Wednesday .
The president said he and the Jordanian monarch had two good meetings over the past two days , discussing Iraq , Iran and the Palestinian territories .
King Abdullah called the discussions " fruitful , " and said he appreciates Mr. Bush 's desire to promote peace and stability in the Middle East .
The two leaders both rejected the violence triggered by cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad , and at the same time called for all religions to be respected .
Uganda 's main opposition leader Kizza Besigye has pleaded not guilty to charges of treason .
Twenty two co-defendants also entered pleas of innocence during a hearing in Uganda 's High Court Tuesday .
Besigye 's supporters say the treason charge is one of several the government made up to keep him from making an effective challenge to President Yoweri Museveni in recent elections .
Museveni won the February election but Besigye 's party has asked the Ugandan Supreme Court to nullify the results .
The High Court dropped rape charges against Besigye last month , and President Museveni said Besigye would not be tried by a military court that had charged him with terrorism and illegal arms possession .
The treason trial proceedings have been adjourned until Wednesday because the court did not have a translator for the first prosecution witness , a woman who speaks the Acholi language .
The spiritual leader of the Anglican church has written an article criticizing the U.S. and British governments for their roles in the Iraq war .
The Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , says in an article published in the London Times Saturday that military actions in the Middle East put Christians in the region at risk .
The Archbishop said that Middle Eastern Christians are frequently seen as supporters of the West .
He says the war has troubled relations between Muslims and Christians in countries such as Iraq , Egypt and Turkey .
The Archbishop wrote specifically about the isolation of Christians in the city of Bethlehem in the West Bank .
Christians revere Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus .
Archbishop Williams has been visiting the Holy Land before Christmas with other church leaders from Britain .
Nepalese authorities say they have detained 30 Tibetan exiles who were marching towards the Chinese border to protest the Beijing government .
Authorities said the Tibetans were picked up Sunday in the northeastern village of Jalbire , near the border with China .
The group was transported back to the Nepalese capital Kathmandu .
Tibetans in Nepal have been holding regular demonstrations against the Chinese government since March , when deadly clashes broke out between protesters and Chinese authorities in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa .
About 20,000 Tibetans live in Nepal .
More than 100 of them were detained last week for demonstrating for Tibetan freedom outside the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu .
The U.S.-based group Human Rights Watch has accused China of pressuring Nepal to crack down on the Tibetan protests .
Beijing denies the charge .
Tibetans have complained of discrimination by the Chinese since Beijing took over Tibet nearly 60 years ago .
Iraqi political parties have been registering their candidates for the December 15 general elections after each of the three main Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish communities agreed on separate broad coalitions .
Leaders of the dominant Shi'ite United Iraqi Alliance were the latest to announce that they will stay unified .
The two main Kurdish factions and three groups representing the minority Sunni community had each earlier said they will submit single candidate lists for the polls ahead of Friday 's registration deadline .
The December elections will mark the third major phase in this year 's political process , following the January poll forming the interim government and the October 15 constitutional referendum .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military in Iraq says roadside bombs killed two American soldiers in Baghdad and Ramadi , west of the capital , on Thursday .
The White House says President George Bush will host a lunch next month with President-elect Barack Obama and all the living former American presidents .
The White House said Wednesday Mr. Bush has invited his father , George H.W .
Bush , along with former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton , to the luncheon that is set for January 7 .
President Bush has made a smooth transition to the next administration a top priority as his presidency winds down .
Last month , Mr. Bush and President-elect Obama held talks at the White House on major issues the incoming chief executive will face during his administration .
Mr. Obama will be sworn into office on January 20 .
Pope John Paul says he is praying for victims of the Asian earthquakes and tidal waves , and is calling on members of the international community to mobilize assistance for victims of the calamity .
Speaking to Roman Catholic pilgrims in Vatican City , the pope said Sunday 's news from Southeast Asia has cast a pall of sadness over Christmas celebrations .
Former rebels in Indonesia 's Aceh province are beginning a second round of weapons surrender Friday as part of a peace accord designed to end 29 years of separatist violence .
Members of the Free Aceh Movement are expected to hand over 210 more weapons in the next few days to international monitors in northern Aceh .
In return , the Indonesian government is scheduled to withdraw 6,500 more soldiers from the province .
Under the peace accord , the Free Aceh Movement must decommission all its weapons in exchange for the withdrawal of 32,000 police and troops by the end of the year .
Implementation began in September .
Many Acehnese want a separate Islamic state and resent that profits from their rich natural resources have been directed elsewhere by the central government in Jakarta .
British officials are denying a newspaper report that London is urging the United States to set a timetable for withdrawing troops from Iraq .
A spokesman for the office of Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday that what is important is not a timetable but to help Iraq while it determines its own future .
He said Britain 's troops will remain in Iraq as long as authorities there want them .
He was responding to a report in London 's Daily Telegraph newspaper , which quoted an unnamed government source as reporting that the Blair administration hopes to have the United States agree to announce a timetable .
The newspaper report said that setting the timetable would be an indication that U.S.-led coalition troops do not intend to stay in Iraq indefinitely .
The report said the announcement would bolster Iraq 's interim government and undermine insurgents in that country .
A military power during the 17th century , Sweden has not participated in any war for almost two centuries .
An armed neutrality was preserved in both world wars .
Sweden 's long-successful economic formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare elements was challenged in the 1990s by high unemployment and in 2000 - 02 and 2009 by the global economic downturns , but fiscal discipline over the past several years has allowed the country to weather economic vagaries .
Sweden joined the EU in 1995 , but the public rejected the introduction of the euro in a 2003 referendum .
The U.S. trade deficit hit the third-highest level on record in August , as the price of imported oil soared .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department says the gap between what Americans buy and what they sell abroad was $ 59 billion .
The figures show little impact from Hurricane Katrina , which struck at the end of the month .
But a separate government report from the Labor Department shows storm damage prompted 75,000 more people to apply for unemployment compensation last week .
That brings the total jobs lost to hurricanes to 438,000 .
Nationwide , the number of people asking for first time compensation declined slightly during the week .
Analysts say in spite of the hurricanes , the overall labor market is strong as companies expand labor forces to meet growing demand .
The trouble that began on Wall Street is beginning to trickle down to Main Street , as small businesses find credit tightening up .
Many banks are wary about lending until it 's clear who will take responsibility for the bad debt they are carrying .
Many small business owners are finding it hard to borrow to finance their operations , and they worry about whether their customers will be able to buy their products .
Leta Hong Fincher has more .
Some French lawmakers have boycotted a meeting with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in protest against his country 's human rights record .
Members of the Socialist Party and some from the ruling Union for a Popular Movement refused to attend Tuesday 's event at the National Assembly .
Mr. Gadhafi began his visit to France on Monday and met with French President Nicholas Sarkozy .
Mr. Sarkozy says he asked Mr. Gadhafi to make progress on human rights .
But the Libyan leader later denied that in an interview with French television .
On Monday , the two countries signed business deals worth billions of dollars , including Libya 's purchase of a civilian nuclear reactor and 21 Airbus planes .
It is Mr. Gadhafi 's first trip to France since 1973 .
Libya was long-condemned for supporting terrorism , but its relations with the international community have improved since the country ended its nuclear weapons program in 2003 .
Three Jordanians and an Algerian man have been convicted Wednesday of plotting attacks on Jewish targets in Germany .
The three Jordanian men , Mohammed Abu Dhess , Ismail Shalabi , and Ashraf al-Dagma were also convicted of belonging to al-Tawhid , an organization believed to be linked to al-Qaida and headed by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , who now claims to be head of al-Qaeda in Iraq .
They were sentenced to six to eight years in prison .
The Algerian , Djamel Mustafa was sentenced to five years in prison for his role in planning attacks and supporting a terrorist group .
All four were accused of planning to use explosives against Jewish-owned discotheques in Dusseldorf and a Jewish community center in Berlin .
Another Jordanian man , Shadi Abdalla was convicted separately in 2003 .
He testified against the other four suspects .
Investigators in Mexico have recovered at least 18 bodies from a mass grave near the Pacific coast resort city of Acapulco .
Authorities do not yet know if the bodies found in the grave are those of the 20 men abducted last month while visiting Acapulco from neighboring Michoacan state .
Police began digging at the site after receiving an anonymous tip , which led them to discover two bodies nearby .
An eruption of suspected drug violence has left more than 28,000 people dead across Mexico since the government began cracking down on cartels in 2006 .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials said they have discovered a tunnel used for drug smuggling across the California-Mexico border .
Authorities said they seized 20 tons of marijuana at a site near the tunnel , which ran more than 500 meters underground from Mexico to Otay Mesa , California .
A government spokesman says Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf will seek another five-year term after his current tenure ends in 2007 .
Pakistan 's Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed made the announcement Tuesday , saying Pakistan needs his leadership .
He did not say if he would also continue as the army chief .
Pakistan 's parliament currently has a majority of pro-Musharraf lawmakers , and it was generally considered likely that General Musharraf would remain at the helm after the general elections in 2007 .
But up until now he had not publicly declared his intentions .
General Musharraf seized power in a bloodless coup in October , 1999 , appointed himself president in June , 2001 , and won a heavily criticized referendum in April , 2002 .
He then won a parliamentary vote of confidence a year later .
The head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency says CIA interrogators do not torture prisoners to get information .
CIA Director Porter Goss says in an interview with the USA Today newspaper published Monday that torture does not work .
But Mr. Goss says interrogators use a variety of what he calls " unique and innovative " ways to collect information .
He declined to describe interrogation methods .
Republican Senator John McCain is pushing a proposal that bars the use of cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment of detainees by military or CIA interrogators .
President Bush has threatened to veto any defense spending bill that includes the proposal .
Mr. Goss says the CIA takes a neutral position on Senator McCain 's proposal , adding that some techniques restricted by the measure have yielded valuable intelligence .
A roadside bomb blast near the motorcade of Iraq 's oil minister has killed at least two of his escorts and wounded two others .
Iraqi officials say Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum was not hurt in the bombing , which occurred in a north Baghdad district as he set out for the oil refining city of Beiji .
Meanwhile , U.S. military officials deny that al-Qaida in Iraq has abducted two Marines in western Iraq , where U.S. troops are in the third day of an offensive to drive out insurgents .
A website message from the purported kidnappers Sunday said the Marines would be killed unless all female Sunni Muslim prisoners in U.S. and Iraqi custody were freed within 24 hours .
U.S. officials say at least 20 insurgents have been killed in the current operation .
U.S. seismologists say an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.8 has struck Guatemala .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or major damage following the tremor Wednesday .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the epicenter of the quake was near the Pacific coast about 115 kilometers from Guatemala City .
There appears to be growing support for a suggestion that voting in Iraq 's election , now scheduled for January 30 , be spread over a two to three-week period .
In Baghdad Wednesday , the Interior Ministry said staggered voting would facilitate the work of international observers and guarantee the participation of all Iraqis .
Ministry officials also said it would allow for adequate security to be provided to voters and candidates .
The final decision lies with the independent Electoral Commission , not the government .
In Washington , the State Department said the details of the election are up to the Iraqis to decide , but the United States is currently operating under the assumption that elections will be held nationwide on January 30 .
Two U.S. lawmakers who blocked $ 100 million in U.S. aid to Lebanon 's military say they have lifted their hold on the funds after being assured the aid would not fall into the hands of Hezbollah militants threatening Israel .
Democratic Representative Howard Berman released a statement Friday saying he based his decision to release the funds on a U.S. review of the aid-to-Lebanon program and a series of classified briefings with Obama administration officials .
Fellow Democratic Representative Nita Lowey confirmed through a spokesman that she has also lifted her hold on the funds .
The lawmakers withheld their support for the aid to the Lebanese Armed Forces in August after a border clash between Lebanese and Israeli soldiers that killed two Lebanese soldiers , a Lebanese journalist , and an Israeli officer .
Berman is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committee .
Lowey heads a foreign operations subcommittee on the House Appropriations committee .
The Vatican has opened its secret archives of the pre-World War Two papacy of Pius XI .
The documents detail the 1922 to 1939 papacy of Pius XI , when his successor - the wartime Pope Pius XII - served as the Vatican 's secretary of state .
For years , the Vatican has defended Pope Pius the XI against claims he did too little to save European Jews from the Holocaust .
There is hope the released records could offer insight into the controversy .
However , the Vatican still has not released the records from Pope Pius the XII 's papacy .
Archive officials say some 50 researchers have come to consult the nearly 30,000 files totaling millions of pages .
Colombian officials say leftist rebels have attacked a military convoy in remote northeastern Colombia , killing six soldiers and 10 security officers .
The attack Thursday took place near the town of Hacari in Norte de Santander province , which borders Venezuela .
The Colombian military says it and the Department of Administrative Security ( DAS ) were carrying out operations against the country 's largest rebel group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) when explosives were detonated alongside their convoy .
Violence has increased ahead of the May 28 election , in which anti-crime President Alvaro Uribe , is expected to win re-election .
Human Rights Watch has accused FARC of massacring dozens of civilians , including children in an effort to intimidate voters .
North Korea 's demand that it be given a light water reactor before dismantling its nuclear weapons program has sparked mixed reactions from the six nations attending the talks .
The White House says the demand is the opposite of the sequence of events agreed to on Monday and suggested Pyongyang needs time to reflect on the deal .
Japan called the demand " unacceptable . "
China 's Foreign Ministry urged all sides to keep their commitments .
North Korea had pledged to give up its nuclear weapons in return for energy aid and security assurances at talks in Beijing .
Parties agreed that supplying a light water reactor for civilian use would be discussed later .
But soon after signing the agreement , the North said Washington should not expect Pyongyang to dismantle its weapons before it received light water reactors .
A new opinion poll conducted in eight nations that are U.S. allies indicates a majority of people do not want the United States to secretly interrogate suspected terrorists in their country .
The Associated Press-Ipsos poll last month asked people in Canada , Mexico , South Korea , France , Germany , Italy , Spain and Britain about their opinions on torturing and secretly interrogating terrorist suspects .
The poll shows a clear majority of people in every nation would oppose secret American interrogations conducted in their country .
However , people were more closely split over whether it is justified to torture suspected terrorists to obtain information about terrorist activities .
A majority of respondents in Spain and Italy said such action would never be justified .
But about half of people in Canada , Mexico , France , Germany and Britain said torture could be justified on certain occasions .
Despite a slowdown in the U.S. economy , the amount of goods the United States ships overseas recently increased .
According to the U.S. Department of Commerce , U.S. exports in the second quarter of 2008 expanded at an annualized rate of nine-point-two percent , thanks in large part to a decline in the value of the dollar against other currencies Many U.S. exporters are benefiting from the weak dollar , which makes American goods cheaper abroad , and boosts U.S. firms ' profits when they convert overseas earnings back into dollars .
But as Nathan King reports for VOA , it is not just large global corporations that are benefiting .
Thousands of students in several Egyptian cities have protested the Israeli army 's killing of three Egyptian policemen on the Gaza border .
Students called on the government Sunday to reject Israel 's apology and allow Egyptians to wage holy war over the incident .
The Egyptian government has demanded a formal inquiry into the Thursday shootings , in which Israeli troops said they mistook the policemen for Palestinian insurgents .
Egypt has also suspended a planned trip to Israel by its Foreign Minister after the killings .
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass , and agreed with its owner that he should try out the animal before he bought him .
He took the Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses , upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all .
Seeing this , the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner .
On being asked how , in so short a time , he could have made a trial of him , he answered , " I do not need a trial ; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion . "
A man is known by the company he keeps .
The economy , one of the most stable and prosperous in the Caribbean , is highly dependent on tourism generating an estimated 45 % of the national income .
More than 934,000 tourists , mainly from the US , visited the islands in 2008 .
In the mid-1980s , the government began offering offshore registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands , and incorporation fees now generate substantial revenues .
Roughly 400,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend 2000 .
The adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994 , which provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory gateways for investigation of criminal offenses , made the British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international business .
Livestock raising is the most important agricultural activity ; poor soils limit the islands ' ability to meet domestic food requirements .
Because of traditionally close links with the US Virgin Islands , the British Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as its currency since 1959 .
The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I .
In 1918 , the Croats , Serbs , and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as Yugoslavia .
Following World War II , Yugoslavia became a federal independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO .
Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991 , it took four years of sporadic , but often bitter , fighting before occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands .
Under UN supervision , the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was returned to Croatia in 1998 .
In April 2009 , Croatia joined NATO ; it is a candidate for eventual EU accession .
Sri Lanka 's national cricket team will have to wait until Friday to leave New Zealand , as players anxiously attempt to get home following this week 's devastating tsunami .
No flights were available for the Sri Lanka team , which canceled its tour of New Zealand after this week 's disaster .
No players lost close relatives in the tsunami disaster , though the mothers of two players were injured .
New Zealand and Sri Lanka agreed to cancel the tour Wednesday so that players could return home .
The International Cricket Council agreed to the move , and said its normal penalties would not be imposed in this case .
The death toll in Sri Lanka from Sunday 's tsunami is more than 22,000 people .
New Zealand is hoping to reschedule the tour within the next two years .
Google won a key European Union court ruling on trademark issues Tuesday .
The European Court of Justice , Europe 's highest court , said Google did not violate luxury goods trademarks by allowing companies to buy other companies ' brand names as advertising key words .
Google is the world 's most-widely used Internet search company , and it makes tens of billions of dollars a year by selling the right to display advertisements next to search results .
Luxury goods makers like Luis Vuitton complained that competitors were buying the right to use Luis Vuitton brand names as key words .
That could guide customers to buy goods at web sites run by Vuitton 's competitors , including counterfeiters .
The European Court of Justice said Google must remove the advertisements quickly if trademark holders show the ads are used for illegal activity like selling counterfeit goods .
Sri Lanka is engaging in large-scale reconstruction and development projects following the end of the 26-year conflict with the LTTE , including increasing electricity access and rebuilding its road and rail network .
Additionally , Sri Lanka seeks to reduce poverty by using a combination of state directed policies and private investment promotion to spur growth in disadvantaged areas , develop small and medium enterprises , and promote increased agriculture .
High levels of government funding may be difficult , as the government already is faced with high debt interest payments , a bloated civil service , and historically high budget deficits .
The 2008 - 09 global financial crisis and recession exposed Sri Lanka 's economic vulnerabilities and nearly caused a balance of payments crisis , which was alleviated by a $ 2.6 billion IMF standby agreement in July 2009 .
The end of the civil war and the IMF loan , however , have largely restored investors ' confidence , reflected in part by the Sri Lankan stock market 's recognition as one of the best performing markets in the world .
Sri Lankan growth rates averaged nearly 5 % in during the war , but increased government spending on development and fighting the LTTE in the final years spurred GDP growth to around 6-7 % per year in 2006 - 08 .
After experiencing 3.5 % growth in 2009 , Sri Lanka 's economy is poised to achieve high growth rates in the postwar period .
Witnesses say at least 10 people have been injured in a grenade attack on a Somali parliament member 's house .
The home of Abdullahi Shaleyste in the southwestern town of Baidoa was attacked late Thursday .
The lawmaker was apparently unharmed but members of his family were injured in the blast .
At least four of the wounded are said to be in serious condition .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Islamist insurgents have waged a bloody 17-month battle against Somalia 's Ethiopian-backed interim government .
The government and exiled opposition leaders who back the insurgents are set to resume reconcilation talks in Djibouti on Saturday .
However , leaders of the Eritrean-based Alliance for the Re-Liberation of Somalia appear split on whether the group should be holding the talks .
Hard-liners in the group say no talks should take place until Ethiopia withdraws its troops from Somalia .
Turkey 's prime minister is appealing for national unity after unrest in Kurdish-majority areas of the country left at least 16 people dead in the past week .
Speaking to members of his political party , Recep Tayyip Erdogan Tuesday vowed not to give in to violence and to expand democratic reforms .
He also rejected any dialogue with the main Kurdish political group , the Democratic Society Party , until it openly condemns the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK as a terrorist organization .
In the past week , hundreds of Kurds have clashed with Turkish security forces in the country 's southeast .
The unrest started last Tuesday in Diyarbakir after a funeral for 14 members of the PKK killed by the security forces .
The United States has condemned the violence and called on all parties to exercise restraint .
Israeli police on Monday said they are recommending that former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert be indicted in connection with a real estate scandal .
Olmert is already on trial for fraud and bribery .
Police suspect Olmert received tens of thousands of dollars in exchange for his support for a large residential development in Jerusalem .
He was then mayor of Jerusalem .
Olmert denies the charges .
The case has shocked Israelis and is one of the biggest corruption scandals in the country 's history .
Police suspect the total amount of money transferred from the project 's initiators to a middleman who mediated between the parties involved , is $ 15 million .
Police have recommended that a former Olmert aide and former Jerusalem Mayor Uri Lupolianski also be indicted .
Poland and the United States have opened formal talks on a controversial U.S. plan to place part of a U.S. missile defense system on Polish soil .
A U.S. State Department senior advisor , Robert Loftis , met Monday in Warsaw with Polish defense officials .
U.S. embassy spokesman Andrew Schilling characterized the meeting as a good beginning , with an exchange of ideas about how negotiations should move forward .
Another round of higher level talks is set for next week involving senior U.S. envoy John Rood , the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for International Security .
Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski has voiced support for the deployment of 10 U.S. missile interceptors in Poland and guidance technology in the Czech Republic .
Washington has repeatedly said the missile system is aimed at protecting the United States and its allies from missile attacks from Iran .
Russia strongly opposes the plan , saying the missile shield would threaten Russian security .
The media rights group Reporters Without Borders has recognized a Burmese-run television and radio network for its work , including coverage of September 's pro-democracy protests in Burma .
The group says the Norway-based Democratic Voice of Burma was one of the few media that sent out images of the Burmese military crackdown on demonstrations led by Buddhist monks .
Reporters Without Borders chose the station to receive its 2007 award recognizing " a media that exemplifies the battle for the right to inform the public and be informed . "
The non-profit media organization was founded in 1992 by a group of pro-democracy students who escaped the massacres of a 1988 crackdown by Burma 's military government .
The United Nations says fighting between armed militants and government troops has driven nearly 4,000 people from their homes in Congo 's eastern Ituri province .
A spokesman for the U.N. peacekeeping mission in the region , Floruan Barbey , said the displaced people have taken shelter in a church and school in the town of Fataki , near the provincial capital Bunia .
The spokesman said the militants and government troops engaged in sporadic fighting this week .
It was unclear if there were any casualties .
He says the fighters are apparently loyal to rebel leader Peter Karim .
Talks are underway between Karim and the government over how to demobilize his forces .
Congo 's government is struggling to rebuild following a civil war in which some four million people died , mostly from hunger and disease .
The United Nations has about 17,000 troops in the DRC to assist the government and maintain peace .
Three Pakistani troops were wounded Monday when attackers fired rockets at their security checkpoint in a remote tribal area near the Afghan border .
The troops were manning the post near the town of Miran Shah in the troubled North Waziristan region when the attack occurred before dawn .
Soldiers returned fire with artillery and machine guns and a gun battle broke out .
Three soldiers were hit by shrapnel from rockets .
Islamic militants have been blamed for attacks on security forces in the region .
Meanwhile , Pakistani security forces are pressuring tribal leaders to hand over suspected militants responsible for recent attacks on government forces that have claimed more than 22 lives , including at least eight soldiers at a checkpoint in North Waziristan .
Tens of thousands of Pakistani forces have been deployed in the region to search for foreign militants .
Hurricane Paula has now weakened into a tropical storm , as it continues to dump heavy rain along Cuba 's northern coast .
The storm , with maximum sustained winds of 105 kilometers per hour , moved slowly ( 16 kilometers per hour ) Thursday over Cuba 's tobacco fields as it headed in a more easterly direction .
At last report ( 1800 UTC ) , the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Paula was centered 115 kilometers west of Havana .
It said the storm could weaken further and be classified as a tropical depression by Friday .
Heavy rain could fall in parts of Cuba , with up to 25 centimeters in the western and central regions .
Forecasters posted a tropical storm watch for parts of the Florida Keys , a chain of islands off southern Florida .
The United States says it is monitoring the situation closely regarding Iran 's controversial presidential election , including reports of voting irregularities .
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs says the U.S. is impressed by the " vigorous debate and enthusiasm " the election generated , particularly among young Iranians .
Speaking Saturday in Canada , U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the United States hopes the outcome of the Iranian election reflects the " genuine will and desire of the Iranian people . "
She said like the rest of the world , the U.S. is waiting and watching to see what the Iranian people decide .
Standing alongside Clinton , Canadian Foreign Minister Lawrence Cannon said his country is " deeply concerned " with reports of voting irregularities in Iran .
He called on Iranian authorities to conduct a " fair and transparent " counting of the ballots .
Vietnamese health officials say bird flu has been detected in ducks in the country 's south just one day after authorities lifted a ban on hatching ducks and other waterfowl .
Authorities say tests showed 800 ducks in the Mekong delta province of Vinh Long were infected with bird flu , but it is not immediately clear if they had the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
All the birds have been slaughtered .
Earlier this week , authorities announced an outbreak of bird flu in the country 's north .
Vietnam plans to begin a massive new poultry vaccination campaign in the coming week .
Meanwhile , officials in Burma say crows and sparrows may have carried the H5N1 virus to a poultry farm in the suburbs of Rangoon sparking an outbreak .
More than 160 people have died from bird flu worldwide since the outbreak began in late 2003 .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel says the situation is " serious " as bird flu reaches the German mainland for the first time .
Authorities Sunday found the deadly H5N1 strain in two wild birds in the north .
Eighteen new cases were also discovered on the Baltic island of Ruegen .
Meanwhile , French Agriculture Minister Dominique Bussereau is urging consumers to keep eating chicken , assuring them it is perfectly safe to eat properly-cooked meat .
France reported its first bird flu case Saturday .
Italy says it will ask for European Union aid for poultry farmers who have lost millions of dollars as chicken consumption there plummets .
Also , India has begun killing chickens in western Maharastra state after reporting the country 's first bird flu case Saturday .
No human bird flu cases have been reported outside of Asia and Turkey , where about 90 people have died since 2003 .
World oil prices continued declining Monday as members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said they would consider raising oil output quotas to continue easing prices .
Crude oil for May delivery dropped as low as $ 52.10 a barrel in New York trading on Monday .
That is down sharply from a week ago when crude oil futures hit a record high price of $ 58.28 a barrel .
The decline follows last week 's U.S. government report showing an increasing supply of crude oil in the U.S. market , and growing refinery operations to turn out gasoline .
Meantime , U.S. retail gasoline prices hit a record high average of $ 2.29 a gallon or about 60 cents a liter .
The lingering high prices are thought to reflect the time it takes to refine crude oil into gasoline .
U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama met Sunday with T. Boone Pickens , a billionaire oilman and Republican , to discuss the future of U.S. energy policy .
Before the meeting in Reno , Nevada , Senator Obama dismissed questions about Pickens 's involvement in the 2004 presidential election .
Pickens contributed $ 3 million to a group called " Swift Boat Veterans for Truth , " which sought to discredit the Vietnam war service of then-Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry .
The attacks were seen as a factor in President George Bush 's 2004 victory .
Pickens has endorsed neither Obama nor Republican candidate John McCain .
Pickens is promoting a national energy plan that relies on natural gas to cut U.S. dependence on foreign oil .
Pickens met last week with Senator McCain , who had no public appearances scheduled Sunday .
China has cut the size of its military by 200,000 soldiers to make it a leaner , more high-tech fighting force .
The People 's Liberation Army newspaper said Monday the military had been reduced to 2.3 million troops as part of a three-year modernization program that ended last year .
The program involved shutting down Chinese military farms and schools not involved in combat , and removing layers of military bureaucracy .
China has been trimming the size of its military since the mid-1980s , when it had about 4.2 million soldiers .
However , Beijing continued a sizable increase in military spending last year .
Beijing has spent heavily on high-tech weapons in recent years to back up threats against Taiwan .
Japan , South Korea and the United States have repeatedly expressed about China 's military build-up , and have accused Beijing of underreporting its defense spending .
Indian novelist Kiran Desai has become the youngest female writer to win Britain 's Man Booker prize - one of the world 's most prestigious literary awards .
Desai was selected the winner of the $ 93,000 prize Tuesday for her novel The Inheritance of Loss .
Judges called it a " magnificent novel of humane breadth and wisdom , comic tenderness , and powerful political acuteness . "
It is the story of a retired judge who moves into an isolated and crumbling house in the Himalayas hoping to live in peace when his orphaned granddaughter unexpectedly comes to live with him .
The 35-year-old Desai was born in India and educated in the United States and England .
She is the daughter of novelist Anita Desai , who has been nominated for a Booker prize three times .
The 34-nation Organization of American States ( OAS ) has postponed choosing a new chief , saying many foreign ministers who had planned to attend the election session here in Washington are instead heading to Rome for the pope 's funeral .
The OAS Permanent Council had scheduled an election to choose a new secretary general on Thursday , but the vote will now take place April 11 .
The top candidates for the post are Mexico 's conservative foreign secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez , Chile 's socialist interior minister Jose Miguel Insulza and a pro-business former Salvadoran president with close ties to Washington - Francisco Flores .
The cholera outbreak in Angola continues .
The medical aid group – Doctors Without Borders - says in all there have been about 32,000 cases over the past 13 weeks , with about 1,200 deaths .
Richard Veerman is the group ’s head of mission in Angola .
From the capital , Luanda , he gave English to Africa reporter Joe De Capua an update on the cholera outbreak .
He says there are about 600 new cases a day in the country , about half of those in Luanda .
That ’s down from over 900 cases a day about a week ago .
However , Veerman says it ’s still too early to tell whether this means the outbreak is truly on the decline .
Iraqi officials say anti-American Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has returned to Iraq , after a nearly three-year absence .
Sadrist officials say the radical and influential figure returned to his family home in the city of Najaf on Wednesday .
Al-Sadr has been living in Iran , and it is unclear how long he plans to stay in Iraq .
The cleric emerged as a key U.S. foe after the 2003 invasion of Iraq , leading two uprisings carried out by his Mehdi Army against American forces .
Al-Sadr 's political movement was a key player following last year 's disputed elections in Iraq .
The cleric 's bloc worked out a deal to be part of the new Iraqi government , and its support helped Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki secure a second term .
The Sadrists won 39 out of 325 seats in parliament in the March , 2010 , elections .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has left Washington on a trip scheduled to take him to several Asian and European nations .
His first stop is China , where he is scheduled to meet with his counterpart General Cao Gangchuan and Chinese President Hu Jintao .
Talks are expected to focus on military relations between the two nations .
Relations have been strained in recent years over the Taiwan issue , China 's rapid military buildup and the 2001 collision between a U.S. surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet .
Mr. Rumsfeld is scheduled to tour the headquarters of China 's Second Artillery Corps , which controls the country 's strategic missiles .
Chinese officials denied a request to visit the national military command center .
The Defense Secretary is also scheduled to visit South Korea , Mongolia , Kazakhstan and Lithuania .
The man accused of masterminding Rwanda 's 1994 genocide says the accusation a malicious attempt to destroy his name .
Colonel Theoneste Bagosora , the former director of Rwanda 's Defense Ministry , began testifying Monday before a United Nations war crimes court in Tanzania .
He denied planning the government-sponsored killing of some 800,000 minority Tutsis and their Hutu sympathizers .
The prosecution says Colonel Bagosora ordered military commanders to start the killings shortly after President Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a plane crash in April of 1994 .
Colonel Bagosora is being tried with three military codefendants on charges of genocide and crimes against humanity .
The U.N. Security Council established the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in November , 1994 .
It has so far convicted 22 people and acquitted three others .
U.S.-based Muslim groups have joined governments and organizations around the world in condemning Thursday 's deadly bombings in London .
In a statement , the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations condemned the attacks as " barbaric crimes , " which it said " can never be justified or excused . "
The group has said in the past that those who commit acts of terror in the name of Islam are betraying that religion 's values .
In a separate statement , the Muslim Public Affairs Council extended condolences to the families of the victims and to the British people .
It called the bombings an " attack against humanity . "
The Manila-based Asian Development Bank says it will provide a $ 500,000 grant for a major highway project in northeastern China .
The money will be used to upgrade or build more than half of the 828-kilometer Jixi-Nehe highway , located in the province of Heilongjiang , bordered by Russia on the north and North Korea on the east .
The ADB says the road project will boost the province 's economy .
Heilongjiang has the largest cultivated land area in China along with heavy industry and timber resources .
It is heavily dependent on foreign trade .
The bank says inadequate transportation conditions in the province also hurt the rural poor by restricting their access to basic goods and services .
The White House has rejected calls by opposition Democrats for an independent commission to probe allegations of detainee abuse at the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters Tuesday the Department of Defense is already probing such allegations .
On Tuesday , Congressional Democrats presented draft legislation that would create an independent commission , which they say would serve the national interest .
Some lawmakers have called for closing down the Guantanamo prison , following recent reports by human rights groups of detainee abuse .
President Bush has not ruled out the possibility , but Vice President Dick Cheney said last week there are no plans to shut it down .
Last month , the U.S. military said it found five instances of mishandling of the Koran , the Muslim holy book , at Guantanamo .
It said guards were punished in two cases .
US computer maker Dell has says it plans to substantially expand its customer support and software development centers in India .
Officials say the state of Texas-based company intends to add 2,000 more employees to its staff , bringing the total in India to 10,000 by January , 2006 .
The company runs three call centers in India , with most of the operations centered in Bangalore , India 's " silicon valley . "
Dell officials say they will open several more offices in India .
Scores of Western companies have cut costs by shifting software development , engineering design and routine office functions to countries such as India , which has a large pool of English-speaking workers and low wages .
Computer experts estimate that such outsourcing could create as many as 1.2 million jobs in India by 2008 and bring in revenues of at least $ 21 billion .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says a U.S. Marine and an American solider were killed in separate insurgent attacks Monday .
The military says the marine was killed when suspected Taleban insurgents fired rocket-propelled grenades and mortars at a U.S. base near the eastern city of Asadabad .
The military says the solider was killed when his unit came under similar attack near the southern city of Kandahar .
The attacks occured just a week after Afghanistan held landmark general elections .
The election took place without any major violence despite Taleban threats to disrupt the vote .
Rebels in Sudan 's Darfur region say they clashed with government forces Wednesday , days before a scheduled new round of peace talks .
The Sudan Liberation Army faction of Abdel Wahid Nur said its troops attacked the government-held Golo district in the Jebel Marra mountains .
A spokesman said there were casualties on both sides .
He did not give specific figures .
The joint U.N.-African Union peacekeeping mission confirmed there was fighting in the area .
The rebels say earlier this week , Sudanese warplanes bombarded rebel-controlled areas in Jebel Marra and in Jebel Moun , near the border with Chad .
Peace talks between Khartoum and Darfur rebel groups are due to resume later this month in Qatar .
The United Nations says the fighting in Darfur has killed up to 300,000 people and displaced 2.7 million since 2003 .
The government says 10,000 people have died in the conflict .
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together .
A Lion lay in ambush in the hope of making them his prey , but was afraid to attack them while they kept together .
Having at last by guileful speeches succeeded in separating them , he attacked them without fear as they fed alone , and feasted on them one by one at his own leisure .
Union is strength .
United Nations officials say some indigenous groups in Colombia face extinction because of ongoing political fighting that has forced them to flee their ancestral homes .
Fighting between the Colombian army and guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , FARC , in the past week has caused the displacement of an estimated 3,500 indigenous Nasa people in one southwest province .
Observers say that if the fighting continues , the number of displaced could reach 5,000 .
U.N. officials say the Embera people are also under threat .
About 4,000 of them could soon be driven from their homes in the northwest .
Colombia 's indigenous peoples have suffered heavily during the civil war .
Illegal armed groups have killed their leaders and conscripted young people into the ranks .
The National Indigenous Organization of Colombia estimates that more than 20 indigenous leaders have disappeared or have been murdered so far this year .
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage .
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying , " Your feathers are all very well in the spring , but mine protect me against the winter . "
Fair weather friends are not worth much .
Officials in Afghanistan say the United States has released 17 Afghan detainees from military custody at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba .
Abdul Wakil Omari , a spokesman for the Afghan Supreme Court , said the men would be formally handed over during a ceremony at the court later Tuesday .
He did not say how many prisoners had been released , but other officials put the number at 17 .
It was not clear if the men will face charges in their home country .
The U.S. military had no immediate comment .
The United States has released more than 200 detainees from Guantanamo , but many , including dozens of prisoners sent to the United Kingdom , Russia , France , Morocco , Saudi Arabia and Pakistan , are freed on the condition they will be held by their home countries .
I just read that last year 4,153,237 people got married .
I do n't want to start any trouble , but should n't that be an even number ?
A Kuwaiti oil and gas producer says it has discovered nearly 142 billion cubic meters of recoverable natural gas in the southern U.S. state of Texas .
The company , Aref Energy , said Monday that its U.S. project manager is Texas-based energy giant Halliburton .
Aref Energy holds a 50 percent share in the operation in south-central Texas .
The company has not named its partners in the operation .
Halliburton says it is taking measures to start gas production operations early next year .
Aref says a survey by the joint venture indicates a total of 538 billion cubic meters of natural gas at the Texas site .
Three bombings in northern Iraq killed six people Saturday , including one child .
In one attack , police say a roadside bomb exploded about 80 kilometers south of Mosul , killing two police officers and one soldier .
In a second attack , a roadside bomb targeting an Iraqi army patrol exploded about 25 kilometers south of Mosul , killing the child and one soldier .
The third bombing took place in Fallujah , about 50 kilometers west of Baghdad .
Police say two bombs exploded near the home of a former police officer , killing a woman .
Insurgent attacks remain common in some areas of Iraq , although such violence has dropped significantly since reaching its highest levels between 2005 to 2007 .
Hundreds of people marched through downtown Hong Kong Sunday to protest Japan 's wartime atrocities .
Demonstrators set out from an urban park and wound their way through some of the city 's busiest streets to government headquarters in the central business district .
They carried banners denouncing Japanese militarism and calling for Japan 's withdrawal from disputed islands that are also claimed by China .
Unlike some of the protests in mainland China in the past weeks , the march in Hong Kong was peaceful .
Organizers said the march was meant to protest Japanese militarism and not the Japanese people .
Many Chinese feel that Tokyo is not contrite enough about its wartime record in China , when Japanese troops slaughtered tens of thousands of Chinese .
Mexican federal police say they have captured a regional leader of the Zetas drug gang , who allegedly trafficked drugs from the Dominican Republic and Panama to the United States .
Security official Luis Cardenas said Thursday that Eduardo Ramirez Valencia was detained Wednesday along with an accomplice in Hidalgo state .
Cardenas also said Ramirez was thought to have collaborated closely with Heriberto Lazcano , an alleged Zeta leader .
Authorities have blamed the Zetas , in part , for an escalation in violence in northeastern Mexico this year .
Mexico 's northern border is being rocked by violent crime and clashes involving groups battling for control of drug-trafficking routes into the United States .
About 30,000 people have been killed in Mexico 's drug war since President Felipe Calderon took office in late 2006 and began cracking down on the cartels .
The International Football Federation ( FIFA ) and the European Football Union ( UEFA ) have agreed to stage a charity match with the proceeds going to victims of last month 's devastating Indian Ocean tsunami .
In a statement released Friday , FIFA said the two associations decided to organize the match " on a grand scale " in a major European stadium in February .
Several national football associations -- including England , Germany , Greece , Portugal , Spain , India , and Malaysia -- have said they want to arrange charity matches .
FIFA did not say who would play in the match , or where it would be held .
Earlier this week , FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation called for famous players to help with aid distribution .
FIFA and the Asian confederation also agreed to deliver football equipment to national associations in nations struck by the tsunami .
An Iraqi man convicted in the 2004 kidnapping and killing of a British aid worker may have escaped from prison .
A lawyer for former Care International worker Margaret Hassan told the French news agency that Ali Lutfi Jassar al-Rawi did not appear at a Thursday appeal hearing .
Hassan 's lawyer says Iraqi officials have told him Jassar is missing from prison and his whereabouts are unknown .
Last year , a Baghdad court sentenced Jassar to life in prison for his role in Hassan 's death .
Iraqi officials had sentenced a second man , Mustafa Salman al-Jibouri , to life in the case but later reduced his sentence on appeal .
Hassan had lived in Iraq for 30 years and served as the head of Care International in Baghdad .
After she was kidnapped , she appeared in several videos appealing for British forces to withdraw from Iraq .
Investigators have not found her body .
Two astronauts are back aboard the International Space Station after a spacewalk to conduct experiments and maintenance .
Station Commander Leroy Chiao of the United States and Russian flight engineer Salizhan Sharipov spent a total of five hours , 28 minutes outside the orbiting station Wednesday .
The U.S. space agency says the crew members installed a work platform , set up two experiments , and checked vents on systems that help control the station 's atmosphere .
The spacewalk was the first for the current two-man crew , who arrived at the station in October .
NASA says the crew members plan to conduct their second spacewalk in March .
Lawmakers in Spain have voted to send about 400 troops to join anti-piracy patrols off the coast of Somalia .
The Spanish parliament approved the deployment on a vote of 311 to nothing Wednesday .
Defense Minister Carme Chacon said the first 200 troops will leave for the Gulf of Aden on a frigate and supply vessel this Friday .
The Spanish troops will join the European Union force sent to protect ships against hijackings and attacks by Somali pirates .
The International Maritime Bureau said Somali pirates attacked at least 111 ships last year , an increase of nearly 200 percent from 2007 .
The United States , China , and several other countries have also put ships on patrol in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia 's Indian Ocean coast .
A published report says U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has created an espionage unit in the Pentagon that gives him wide authority over spy operations abroad .
The Washington Post says the Strategic Support Branch reaches into what has normally been Central Intelligence Agency territory .
The report in Sunday 's newspaper says the unit has been secretly operating for two years in Iraq , Afghanistan and elsewhere .
A Defense Department statement released Sunday denies the existence of such a unit , but says it is consulting with other agencies in the U.S. intelligence community , including the CIA , to improve human intelligence capability .
The Post says its information comes from interviews with participants , and documents obtained by the newspaper .
The unit is said to deploy special operations forces and experts such as linguists and interrogators into both friendly and unfriendly nations .
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are meeting in Vienna to consider offering as much as another two million barrels of crude oil a day to world markets .
Oil and gasoline prices soared to record highs in recent weeks as Hurricane Katrina threatened oil production and refining capacity on the U.S. Gulf Coast .
Some analysts say OPEC 's offer would have symbolic rather than practical impact because gasoline prices were driven upward by a shortage of refining capacity rather than a lack of crude oil .
World oil prices have fallen from their record high of $ 70.85 , but rebounded more than $ 2 a barrel to $ 65.25 cents on the New York market Monday morning .
Traders were reacting to news that another tropical storm is on a course that might hurt oil and gasoline production .
Afghan authorities say a roadside bomb in Afghanistan 's southern Kandahar province killed two police officers and wounded three others .
A provincial spokesman said the intelligence chief of the capital city of Kabul was in the convoy , but the bomb missed him because he was in another car .
Separately , coalition and Afghan forces killed more 30 Taleban fighters in the southern Afghan province of Zabul Saturday .
No Afghan or coalition troops were hurt in the battle .
In another incident , an Afghan army commander said fighting in Zabul left two Taliban dead and at least two others captured .
The Taleban ruled Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001 , when they were toppled in a US-led invasion .
They are now waging an insurgency against the government and its allies .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for killing ten people , including foreigners , after the bodies were found in dense forest in northern Afghanistan .
The International Assistance Mission , a Christian charity providing health services to the Afghan people , said on its website Saturday the dead people are " likely " members of its eye camp team , who were returning to Kabul after working in Nuristan .
U.S. officials in Afghanistan say at least two Americans were among the group of eight foreigners and two Afghans killed .
Local officials said six Germans were among those killed in Badakhshan province .
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed told the French news agency a patrol confronted the " Christian missionaries and we killed them all . "
One Afghan man survived the attack .
The bullet-riddled bodies were discovered Friday .
China has confirmed an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu among wilds birds in western China .
The Ministry of Agriculture said Friday that the outbreak was discovered in Qinghai province after 123 birds were found dead .
The bird flu virus killed more than 1,000 geese in Qinghai last year .
The province is located along a major Asian migratory route for birds .
Researchers believe wild birds from the region may have carried bird flu along migratory paths to Europe .
Nigerian health officials say a deadly strain of bird flu has been detected for the first time in the southwestern state of Ogun .
Officials Saturday said H5N1 was found at a single farm in that state .
They said further testing and decontaminating processes are under way .
Health experts fear the disease could spread from Ogun to nearby Lagos , home to more than 13 million people .
Also Saturday , Poland confirmed a second outbreak of H5N1 among wild birds .
The nation 's chief veterinary officer told reporters that a dead infected swan was found in a western town bordering Germany .
In recent days , dead swans with H5N1 were discovered in the central Polish town of Torun .
Avian flu has spread from Asia to Europe , Africa and the Middle East .
The World Health Organization says bird flu has killed 97 people since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Hurricane Danielle is picking up strength as it moves over the Atlantic Ocean .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center said the storm 's sustained winds increased to nearly 140 kilometers per hour Wednesday morning .
It remains a Category 1 on the five-point scale of hurricane strength .
Danielle is moving northwest in the open waters of the Atlantic .
As of the last report , it was about 1,275 kilometers east of the Northern Leeward Islands .
Meanwhile , in the Pacific , Tropical Storm Frank is also gaining strength as it continues on its path away from the southwestern coast of Mexico .
Forecasters say the storm could become a hurricane later Wednesday .
Its sustained winds were last recorded at nearly 110 kilometers per hour .
As of now , neither storm is posing a threat to land .
Pakistani officials say a roadside bomb killed seven Pakistani soldiers in the northwest Saturday , as the army pushed forward with its offensive against Taliban militants .
Officials say the bomb attack occurred in the Khyber tribal area , home to the Khyber Pass , the main route for moving supplies to international forces fighting in Afghanistan .
The attack came as Pakistani warplanes bombed Taliban bases in the tribal regions .
The army said troops killed 33 militants in the latest operations .
It said forces are closing in on key Taliban strongholds in the South Waziristan region , where it launched its offensive two weeks ago .
The military 's latest report comes a day after U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton ended her confrontational visit to Pakistan .
During her three-day trip , Clinton questioned why the country has not captured al-Qaida leaders , saying " somebody , somewhere in Pakistan " must know where they are .
At 17 , DeAndre Way became known around the world as Soulja Boy on the success of his number one hit , " Crank That . "
The song was also number one for seven weeks on the iTunes digital download site in September 2007 .
Despite the criticism from other rap stars like 50 Cent and Jay-Z , Soulja Boy says the numbers speak for themselves .
Larry London caught up with Soulja Boy on tour in Washington .
The United Nations ' special envoy for human rights has visited with prisoners in a northwest Burmese jail .
Officials say Tomas Ojea Quintana traveled to the northwestern state of Rakhine to meet Wednesday with detainees being held at the Butheetaung prison near the border with Bangladesh .
He is also expected to visit Burma 's infamous Insein prison near Rangoon , and travel to Naypyidaw , Burma 's administrative capital , to meet with several officials from Burma 's military government .
He is scheduled to leave Burma on Friday .
Ahead of his trip to the region , the military released National League for Democracy vice chairman Tin Oo , after seven years of detention .
NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi remains one of 2,100 political dissidents being held in Burma .
She has been under some form of detention in Burma for 14 of the past 20 years .
Iraqi police say insurgents have killed at least 40 people and wounded dozens more in attacks just four days before a national referendum on a new constitution .
In the deadliest attack Tuesday , a suicide car bomber struck a crowded market in the town of Tal Afar , near the Syrian border , killing at least 30 people and wounding 45 others .
In Kirkuk , at least three people were killed in a drive-by shooting , and in Baghdad a suicide car bomber killed at least seven people at an Iraqi army checkpoint .
U.S. and Iraqi officials have repeatedly warned that insurgents - many of whom are Sunni Arabs - will step up attacks to undermine Saturday 's constitutional referendum .
Shi'ite and Kurdish political leaders have been pursuing last-minute negotiations with Sunni political leaders who are concerned their community will be sidelined under the constitution 's proposed federal system .
NATO says it trained almost 1,500 Iraqi military officers in 2005 , and hopes to train a similar number this year .
The organization says 1,000 officers were trained inside Iraq at a NATO college on the outskirts of Baghdad .
Around 160 NATO personnel are based at the college , which opened in September 2005 .
The remaining Iraqi officers , numbering about 500 , were trained at NATO facilities in Europe .
NATO says the training effort is designed to teach Iraqi military officers modern leadership skills and democratic values .
The organization also supplies military equipment to Iraqi forces and logistical support to Polish troops inside Iraq .
But NATO has not engaged in any combat in Iraq because of opposition from NATO members France and Germany .
Football 's ( soccer 's ) world governing body FIFA has fined the Mexican football federation after two of its players were expelled from last month 's Confederations Cup in Germany following positive doping tests .
In a statement Wednesday , FIFA said it fined the Mexican Federation more than $ 583,000 after Aaron Galindo and Salvador Carmona tested positive for the steroid nandrolone .
The Mexican Federation tested the players before the tournament , which began on June 15 .
However , the men were not expelled until June 22 , after they played in Mexico 's 2-1 victory over Japan and 1-0 win over Brazil .
Mexico lost to Argentina on penalties in the tournament semi-final .
A published report says the Bush administration has initiated a top-level internal review of its anti-terrorism policy , with the aim of moving away from hunting al-Qaida leadership and towards a broader strategy of dealing with violent extremism .
The Washington Post in its Sunday edition says the new strategy has evolved as al-Qaida has become increasingly decentralized since the attacks of September 11 , 2001 .
White House officials tell the newspaper a new anti-terrorism model must emerge to cope with the rapid global spread of pro-al-Qaida Islamic jihadists .
Officials say hitting al-Qaida in Afghanistan after the 2001 attacks was a logical tactical maneuver .
But they say the new leadership among terror groups is difficult to target as they adapt and blend into multiple societies .
The reported policy shift is the first major change in anti-terrorism strategy for the Bush administration since the attacks .
Spain and Morocco have called for a European-African summit to discuss the surge of illegal immigration from the North African country to Europe .
The announcement was made in Rabat Tuesday by Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos .
Earlier Tuesday , Morocco flew 140 illegal migrants back to Senegal .
Other flights to Senegal and Mali are planned .
Spain has been sending Africans who have illegally entered its enclaves in Melilla and Ceuta back into Morocco , which has started sending them home .
More than 1,000 migrants have scaled the razor-wire fences surrounding the enclaves since August , seeking a better life in Europe .
At least 14 have died during the attempts .
Amnesty International has accused the European Union of failing to protect refugees .
Four U.S. financial giants have agreed to temporarily halt housing foreclosures .
J.P. Morgan Chase , Bank of America and Morgan Stanley said Friday their mortgage institutions would not begin the foreclosure process on any owner-occupied properties until March 6 .
Citigroup said its moratorium would last until March 12 , unless President Barack Obama finalizes his administration 's loan modification program at an earlier date .
A key U.S. congressman , Barney Frank , had urged the industry to hold off on foreclosures until a new process for helping homeowners could be put in place .
The Massachusetts Democrat is head of the House financial services committee .
A White House spokesman , Robert Gibbs , announced Friday that President Obama will outline a plan to tackle the home foreclosure crisis during a visit Wednesday to the western state of Arizona .
The New York Times says a controversial government surveillance program has monitored a handful of purely domestic communications .
Unidentified officials say the National Security Agency intercepted the communications apparently by accident .
The White House says President Bush 's order setting up the domestic surveillance program applied only to cases where one party on a call or e-mail message was outside the United States .
But telecommunications experts say with the globalized nature of communications networks , it is difficult to pinpoint exactly where a message originated from .
In a separate development , The Washington Post says a federal judge has resigned from the secret court that oversees government surveillance in intelligence cases , apparently due to deep concerns that the administration 's actions may have tainted the court 's work .
A British soldier facing court martial in Britain has pleaded guilty to committing the war crime of treating detainees inhumanely while serving in Iraq .
Corporal Donald Payne entered his plea today on a military base southwest of London .
He is one of seven British soldiers charged in the 2003 death of an Iraqi hotel receptionist held in British custody in the southern Iraqi city of Basra .
The remaining six defendants pleaded not guilty to all charges .
Authorities say the receptionist sustained more than 90 injuries .
A second detainee was described as so badly beaten that he nearly died of kidney failure .
Corporal Payne has pleaded not guilty to the more serious charges of manslaughter and obstructing justice .
A military prosecutor told the tribunal today Tuesday his case will show systematic abuse and unacceptable violence against prisoners .
The trial is expected to last at least four months .
Two exit polls are predicting victory for Ukraine 's pro-western opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko in Sunday 's presidential run-off election , though the polls differ widely on the margin of victory
One exit poll , conducted by the Kiev Institute of Sociology and the Razumkov Center for Economic and Political Studies , shows Mr.Yushchenko ahead of Ukraine 's Moscow-leaning Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich by a double-digit margin
But the Interfax news agency quotes another exit poll showing Mr.Yushchenko ahead by less than four percentage points .
But both sides are claiming numerous instances of voting irregularities .
In the first round of voting last month , neither candidate won a majority , but Mr. Yushchenko alleged voting fraud had cost him the election .
The son of professional wrestler Hulk Hogan has been released from a Florida hospital , after being involved in an August 26 car crash .
Police in Clearwater , Florida say Nick Bollea was driving his Toyota Supra sports car at a high rate of speed when it hit a median , flipped , and struck a tree .
Clearwater Police spokesman Wayne Shelor said the car was destroyed .
Bollea and a companion , 22-year-old John Graziano , were extricated from the vehicle and airlifted to Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg .
Bollea was released from the hospital on August 27 , while Graziano is reportedly in critical condition .
Shelor said alcohol did not appear to be a factor in the crash , with excessive speed the likely culprit .
Seventeen-year-old Nick Bollea appears on the reality TV show Hogan Knows Best with his father , mother , and sister .
Oil futures are again breaking records after surpassing $ 110 a barrel on March 13 in New York .
Despite evidence to suggest that high fuel prices are not justified -- weakening demand and growing supplies have been unable to stop skyrocketing prices .
With gasoline prices expected to rise even more in the next few months , consumers are starting to lose patience .
And as VOA 's Mil Arcega reports , it is not just average motorists who are hurting .
A Belarusian court has sentenced former opposition presidential candidate Alexander Kozulin , to 5 1/2 years in prison .
The judge cleared the courtroom before delivering the verdict after the accused called the proceedings unfair and a farce .
Authorities had charged Kozulin with hooliganism and incitement to disorder in connection with mass protests by opposition activists over what they considered fraud in the vote .
Belarus authorities arrested Kozulin a week after the March 19 vote in which authorities say President Alexander Lukashenko won a landslide victory .
Demonstrators said the election was fraudulent .
Prosecutors say more than 500 people were detained during the protests , but opposition activists put the number at more than one thousand .
The United States and the European Union denounced the arrests , and enacted a visa ban on President Lukashenko and other top Belarus officials to protest the fraud .
At least seven Indian police officers were killed Sunday when their vehicle struck a landmine in the eastern region of the country .
Officials say they suspect the bombs were planted by Maoist rebels .
The attack was in Orissa state , nearly 550 kilometers south of the state capital Bhubaneshwar .
Indian officials say the long-running Maoist insurgency , which has spread to 20 of the country 's 28 states , is India 's most serious domestic security issue .
The rebels , also called Naxalites , are demanding land and jobs for the poor .
Colombian police say suspected leftist rebels have executed at least seven farm workers involved in coca harvesting in the southwest of the country .
Authorities say the attack was carried out Wednesday in the province of Narino by gunmen from Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC .
They say the rebel group killed the farm workers as part of its battle for ownership of lucrative coca fields used in the production of cocaine .
FARC militants have been fighting a long-running conflict with far-right paramilitaries in the region , with each side trying to control drug smuggling routes to Central America .
Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898 .
Captured by the Japanese in 1941 , it was retaken by the US three years later .
The military installation on the island is one of the most strategically important US bases in the Pacific .
Italian President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi is holding formal talks with political leaders Thursday , the first step in forming a new government .
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi resigned Wednesday , two weeks after his center-right coalition suffered a crushing defeat in regional elections , losing 11 of 13 regions .
One party pulled out of the coalition last week and another has threatened to also drop out .
The president is expected later this week to ask Mr. Berlusconi to form a new cabinet .
Earlier , the prime minister told parliament he is stepping down with plans to form a new and stronger coalition .
He praised the outgoing government for what he called its " secure leadership " over the past four years which he says increased Italian prestige on the world stage .
The U.S. government has launched a new website designed to help new immigrants find information about federal government resources .
The new site , welcometousa.gov , is an initiative of the interagency Task Force on New Americans established by President Bush in 2006 .
The website provides information on how to become a U.S. citizen , how to get a driver 's license , and ways for new immigrants to find employment .
Another objective of the website is to encourage immigrants and native-born Americans to engage in volunteer activities .
Most of the website is in English , but it includes links to new immigration guides in 11 languages , including Chinese , Korean , Haitian Creole , Spanish , French , Russian , Vietnamese and Arabic .
Pakistan 's opposition has held a " black day " of protests across the country after President Pervez Musharraf 's decision to retain the powerful post of army chief .
Members of an Islamic alliance and other parties took to the streets Saturday in all major cities and towns , where speakers denounced General Musharraf for breaking his promise .
The rallies came two days after the Pakistani leader said in a televised address he had decided to retain both portfolios for the sake of the economic and political stability of the country .
General Musharraf , who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999 , has angered the religious right by going back on a pledge he made to win its support for constitutional amendments that gave him sweeping powers .
An Iranian exile has accused Tehran of building a secret underground facility for enriching uranium at the Parchin military complex in northern Iran .
Ali Reza Jafarzadeh , who has previously revealed accurate information about two hidden nuclear sites in Iran , told VOA Thursday that the Parchin facility was recently completed .
Mr. Jafarzadeh cited what he called sources inside the regime .
He said the new facility has the capability to enrich uranium using laser technology .
In certain forms , enriched uranium can be used to fuel nuclear weapons .
In January , international nuclear inspectors visited Parchin , but Tehran denied a second request to revisit the facility .
The United States has alleged that Iran is engaged in secret nuclear weapons research at Parchin , a charge Iran denies .
Mr. Jafarzadeh previously was the spokesman for the National Council of Resistance of Iran , which Washington has designated as a terrorist organization .
Taiwan 's Defense Ministry says China 's military buildup and modernization is aimed directly at the island .
A Taiwanese Defense Ministry spokesman made the comments Tuesday one day after China released a white paper on national defense .
China 's Information Office of the State Council said the white paper is intended to illustrate China 's national defense policies and the progress made in national defense over the past two years .
Taiwanese Defense Ministry spokesman Wang Shih-chien says the white paper shows that China is emphasizing the buildup of its air and amphibious forces , proving that Beijing is targeting the island .
The Chinese policy document threatens to crush any attempt by Taiwan to become independent .
Beijing considers the island part of its territory .
New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western Samoa at the outbreak of World War I in 1914 .
It continued to administer the islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory until 1962 , when the islands became the first Polynesian nation to reestablish independence in the 20th century .
The country dropped the " Western " from its name in 1997 .
Pakistan has officially raised the death toll from last month 's massive earthquake to 73,276 .
The country 's head of relief operations , Major-General Farooq Ahmed Khan , said Wednesday the October 8 quake also left more than 69,000 people injured .
On Tuesday , government officials had put the death toll at 57,600 , with most fatalities registered in Pakistani-controlled Kashmir .
General Khan gave no reason for the abrupt increase in the death toll , but Pakistani officials say it could rise further .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military said it resumed helicopter relief flights in northern Pakistan , one day after one of its aircraft is believed to have come under fire .
U.S. officials say a suspected rocket-propelled grenade was fired on Tuesday at a helicopter delivering relief aid , causing no damage or injuries .
Pakistani officials said the helicopter crew probably heard dynamite being used to clear landslides triggered by the quake .
James Brown , revered as the " Godfather of Soul " , will undergo surgery for prostate cancer next week .
The 71-year-old musician said in a statement he has overcome a lot of things in his life , and he will overcome this as well .
James Brown finished a two-week tour in Canada earlier this week .
In January , he is set to release an autobiography entitled I Feel Good :
A Memoir of a Life of Soul .
The influential soul , rock , rap and funk musician has made more than 50 albums , selling millions worldwide , since he broke onto the scene with " Please , Please , Please " in 1956 .
Ukraine 's opposition has pulled out of talks with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych on ending the country 's political crisis .
The announcement came amid continued opposition protests over charges of widespread fraud after Mr. Yanukovych was declared the winner of the November 21 vote .
Opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko says the vote was rigged and is challenging the results in Ukraine 's Supreme Court , which could order a new election .
Talks collapsed Tuesday when the pro-western Mr. Yushchenko rejected an offer to become the new prime minister in a Yanukovych presidency .
The disputed election is threatening to split Ukraine apart .
Lawmakers in pro-Russian eastern Ukraine are threatening to declare autonomy if Mr. Yanukovych does not become president .
European leaders are converging on Ukraine to mediate .
They include European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana and Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski .
President Bush has said the will of the Ukrainian people must prevail .
The All India Football Federation ( AIFF ) has appointed a new national team manager ahead of next month 's Asian Cup football tournament after Pradip Choudhury walked out , following reported differences with coach Bob Houghton .
Raul Carmo Fernandes was named as the replacement after Choudhury left the Indian training camp in Dubai , United Arab Emirates .
The loss of Choudhury , who was popular with players , has apparently negatively impacted the team .
AIFF officials have announced they will travel to Dubai Wednesday in an attempt to boost morale .
The team put out a statement saying it believed that Choudhury should have set aside his personal differences with the coach for the good of the team .
India has been drawn into Group C at the Asian Cup -- where it will face Australia , South Korea and Bahrain .
The tournament will be held in Doha from January 7 to 29 .
The U.S. Energy Department says Washington is prepared to tap its emergency oil stockpile to help oil producers and refiners in the path of Hurricane Katrina .
The storm is lashing a part of the U.S. Gulf coast responsible for about one quarter of U.S. crude oil production .
It is also home to key oil import facilities and refineries .
The oil would be loaned to refiners and producers to lessen the effect of disrupted energy production .
Worries about damage to energy production infrastructure have pushed crude oil prices up to record levels .
A similar oil loan program aided oil companies after a hurricane disrupted production last year .
U.S. Olympic speedskater Joey Cheek is following through on his promise to lend a helping hand to children in Africa .
Cheek met with U.S. lawmakers Tuesday to promote the work of the humanitarian aid group Right to Play .
The gold and silver medalist made headlines during the Olympics when he donated his $ 40,000 Olympic bonus to support the group 's work in Sudan 's violence wracked Darfur region .
The organization , founded by Norwegian Olympic champ Johann Koss , emphasizes sporting and recreational activities for children in 23 countries , 14 of them in Africa .
Cheek told VOA 's English to Africa service that he plans to visit Zambia in April to observe some of the group 's projects .
They include AIDS awareness and prevention , and vaccinations against diseases .
Witnesses say a group of Palestinian policemen firing in the air took over the parliament building in Gaza City Monday .
Eyewitnesses say about 30 policemen entered the compound and closed the gates behind them .
Some policemen were seen taking up positions on the roof .
It was not immediately clear why they took over the building .
Last week , Palestinian police and Fatah party activists held protests across the West Bank and Gaza Strip following the defeat of the long-dominant Fatah faction by the militant Hamas group in Wednesday 's parliamentary elections .
Protesters demanded that Fatah leaders resign , and also warned against allowing Hamas to take control of Palestinian security forces .
Egypt has begun the military trial of at least 33 members of the banned opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood .
Defense lawyers boycotted Thursday 's opening session because they say they were not informed that the trial was starting .
The charges against the Muslim Brotherhood members are related to money laundering and terrorism .
The defendants include the Brotherhood 's third highest ranking member , Khayrat el-Shater , who was arrested in December during a crackdown on the organization .
The Muslim Brotherhood is officially banned in Egypt .
But the group won nearly one-fifth of the seats in the lower house of parliament in 2005 by fielding candidates as independents .
Indonesia says it will carry out a third nationwide polio vaccination drive in November to curb the spread of the crippling virus in children .
Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari said Tuesday the next round of free vaccinations will be held November 27 .
She said about 97 percent of children under five years of age were immunized during two earlier drives .
Indonesia is battling its first polio outbreak in a decade .
About 264 children have been diagnosed with the waterborne virus since it was detected in March .
Officials today said a child in tsunami-devastated Aceh province , where thousands remain in refugee camps , is among the latest to develop polio .
Health experts are concerned that the polio virus could spread from Indonesia to other parts of Southeast Asia .
The U.N. war crimes tribunal in the Hague has overturned a conviction for complicity in genocide against a former Bosnian Serb army officer .
In 2005 , Vidoje Blagojevic was convicted on several war crimes charges for giving logistical support to the 1995 massacre of more than 7,000 Muslims in the Bosnian enclave of Srebrenica .
Blagojevic appealed the conviction .
Wednesday , appeals judges let most of the convictions stand but ruled he should have been acquitted on the genocide charge .
The judges said it was impossible to show that he had knowledge of the " genocidal intent " of the massacre 's perpetrators .
The tribunal judges cut his sentence Wednesday , from 18 years in prison to 15 years .
The massacre happened after Serb troops captured Srebrenica , which the U.N. had declared a safe area .
In 2004 , Bosnian Serb authorities acknowledged the deaths as a massacre for the first time .
Indonesian health officials say their tests show two women from the same area have been infected by the bird-flu virus .
The two patients , both from a town just east of Indonesia 's capital , Jakarta , are being treated at a hospital there .
The World Health Organization has not confirmed the results yet .
So far , 23 people have been confirmed as having bird flu in Indonesia .
Seven people who contracted the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus have died .
Elsewhere , Africa 's first outbreak of the H5N1 virus strain was confirmed in Nigeria Wednesday .
The ( Paris-based ) World Organization for Animal Health says the virus killed 40,000 chickens on a farm in Kaduna state .
No human cases of bird flu have been reported in the West African nation .
Avian flu has killed 88 people in southeast Asia , China , and Turkey since 2003 .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says one of its aid workers has been killed in Haiti .
In Geneva Friday , a spokesman for the aid agency said Joel Cauvin , a Haitian staff member , was found dead Thursday .
He said Mr. Cauvin was abducted Wednesday night near his home in Port-au-Prince .
The ICRC said it has no information that the killing was targeted at the agency .
It said it will continue its humanitarian operations in Haiti .
Political and gang violence has plagued the country since President Jean-Bertrand Arrested was ousted in February 2004 following an armed revolt .
Last week , the United Nations Security Council agreed to add another 1,000 soldiers and police to the peacekeeping mission ahead of elections later this year .
That would bring the number of troops in Haiti to 7,500 .
The Venezuelan government has taken over the Bancoro bank , the 13th financial institution the government has seized in the last year .
Venezuelan Finance Minister Jorge Giordani , speaking Friday in Caracas , said that the government decided to intervene in the operations of Bancoro because of liquidity problems and significant financial losses .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he will nationalize any bank that fails to meet government lending guidelines or is in financial trouble .
The government began taking over small and midsized banks in November of 2009 , citing irregularities .
In recent years , Mr. Chavez has nationalized firms in many sectors , including petroleum , communications , electricity , agriculture and banking .
Critics say he is trying to model Venezuela on communist-led Cuba , but Mr. Chavez has said he is working to improve the lives of the country 's impoverished majority .
Officials with the U.N. World Food Program , WFP , say a ship carrying food aid for Somalian tsunami victims has been hijacked and the ship 's crew taken hostage .
The WFP issued a statement early Thursday , saying unidentified pirates boarded the freighter MV Semlow off the coast of Somalia earlier this week .
The ship was carrying 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
The ship is registered in St. Vincent and the Grenadines and had a crew of ten .
The WFP says it has appealed to local leaders and clan elders for the safe return of the crew and the food aid .
Maritime officials say piracy has become increasingly common off the coast of Somalia .
President Bush will deliver a speech Tuesday outlining the administration 's goals for Iraq in the coming year .
In a speech to a gathering of war veterans in Washington , Mr. Bush will discuss the ongoing process of rebuilding Iraq 's economy , establishing democracy and training Iraqi security forces .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan says the president will talk about how the administration has " learned from experience " in all of these areas .
He also says Mr. Bush will call on the international community to fulfill its financial pledges to Iraq .
The president gave a series of speeches late last year aimed at restoring public confidence in his handling of Iraq , which has plummeted due to the ongoing violence and instability in the country .
Mr. McClellan notes that 2006 will be " a time of more testing and sacrifice . "
Usher is off the market .
The multi-platinum R&B star is officially engaged to his longtime girlfriend , stylist Tameka Foster .
Usher 's publicist Simone Smalls made the announcement March 30 , but provided no further details .
Usher had previously announced the engagement to MTV News .
The 28-year-old singer said he may be getting married by year 's end .
A five-time Grammy Award winner , Usher has sold more than 35 million albums worldwide .
President Bush has called the ideology of Islamic radicals the great challenge of the 21st century .
The president spoke Friday in Norfolk , Virginia , home to the world 's largest naval base , to a receptive audience that often broke into applause .
The president compared Islamic radicals to dictators from the past including Hitler and Stalin .
He said such militants must be taken seriously and stopped before their crimes multiply .
He said protecting the freedoms of others in the world protects freedom in the United States .
Mr. Bush stressed that Islamic radicalism is very different from Islam .
During his speech , a protester in the audience yelled , " Mr. President , war is terror , " and revealed a shirt saying " Dump Bush . "
He was escorted out of the auditorium , as other audience members voiced their disapproval of him .
Mullah Mohammad Omar , the Taleban leader who fled to Pakistan after U.S.-led forces routed his fighters in Afghanistan , has resurfaced with a message asking all Muslims to join his fight .
Mullah Omar dropped out of sight in late 2001 , but he is believed to be in hiding somewhere near the Afghan-Pakistani border .
In a message distributed during the past several days in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar , his former stronghold , the Taleban leader said his forces are intensifying their fight against those whom he called foreign occupiers of their homeland .
Chadian Prime Minister Pascal Yoadimadji has died in Paris at the age of 56 .
Chad 's ambassador to France says Mr. Yoadimnadji died Friday from a brain hemorrhage .
The prime minister was flown to Paris earlier this week after suffering a heart attack .
Mr. Yoadimnadji was named prime minister in 2005 by Chadian President Idriss Deby .
He had previously served in the government as agricultural minister , president of the national electoral commission and president of the constitutional council .
African leaders are mourning Pope John Paul , while praising his teachings and his leadership in the significant growth of the church on the African continent .
South Africa 's President Thabo Mbeki said the pontiff 's guidance would continue to inspire people of all faiths and that he had strengthened the moral fiber of the world .
Mr. Mbeki thanked John Paul for his support in the development and rebirth of Africa .
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo praised the pope for advocating religious tolerance and remembered his unwavering support for democracy while Nigeria fought against dictatorship in the 1990s .
Nigeria has 20 million Catholics , the most of any African nation .
Nigerian Cardinal Francis Arinze has been mentioned as a possible successor as pope , although analysts say there is no clear cut favorite .
Thousands of Croatians have gathered in the city of Split to show support for war crimes suspect General Ante Gotovina .
The demonstrators waved Croatian flags and posters of General Gotovina , who was arrested in Spain 's Canary Islands on Wednesday after being on the run since 2001 .
The general was extradited to the United Nations tribunal in the Hague on Saturday to face charges involving the deaths of civilians during a 1995 Croatian army sweep through a Serb-held region .
He is expected to appear before the court next week .
Thousands of his supporters also gathered on Saturday in Croatia 's port city of Zadar to protest his arrest .
They call General Gotovina a hero who helped free Croatia from the former Yugoslavia .
Burundi 's first democratically elected president was assassinated in October 1993 after only 100 days in office , triggering widespread ethnic violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions .
More than 200,000 Burundians perished during the conflict that spanned almost a dozen years .
Hundreds of thousands of Burundians were internally displaced or became refugees in neighboring countries .
An internationally brokered power-sharing agreement between the Tutsi-dominated government and the Hutu rebels in 2003 paved the way for a transition process that led to an integrated defense force , established a new constitution in 2005 , and elected a majority Hutu government in 2005 .
The new government , led by President Pierre NKURUNZIZA , signed a South African brokered ceasefire with the country 's last rebel group in September of 2006 but still faces many challenges .
After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific under US administration , this westernmost cluster of the Caroline Islands opted for independence in 1978 rather than join the Federated States of Micronesia .
A Compact of Free Association with the US was approved in 1986 but not ratified until 1993 .
It entered into force the following year when the islands gained independence .
Some members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are calling for cuts in oil output .
The comments come as officials of the 11 member cartel gather in Cairo for a meeting Friday to discuss oil supplies and prices .
OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the world 's oil .
Oil prices have fallen significantly from their record highs in October , and economists say a reduction in oil output would put upward pressure on prices .
Crude prices soared this year due to strong demand from China and the United States amid worries that political problems , violence , or bad weather would disrupt oil supplies in some key producing nations .
OPEC oil output has been close to 25-year highs , and exceeds the cartel 's self-imposed production quotas .
The European Union has submitted a package of proposals to Iran aimed at ending a long-running standoff over Tehran 's nuclear program .
The offer was transmitted Friday by the ambassadors of Britain , France and Germany , which have been negotiating with Tehran to seek guarantees that its nuclear program is peaceful .
Details of the plan were not immediately known .
But diplomats quoted by the New York Times said Europe planned to offer Iran a sweeping proposal allowing it to acquire nuclear reactors and fuel and achieve a full economic relationship with the West if it ends its suspected weapons program .
The report says the proposal seeks a pledge by Iran to end any uranium conversion and enrichment activities .
A spokesman for the International Atomic Energy Agency said Friday a special session will be held Tuesday to discuss Iran 's threat to resume sensitive nuclear fuel cycle work .
Finance ministers and central bank governors of the G-7 countries have called on the World Trade Organization to make significant progress toward a global trade agreement at a summit in Hong Kong later this month .
In a statement at the conclusion of two days of talks in London , officials from the world 's seven leading industrialized countries said the WTO meeting will be a critical step in seeking agreement on a comprehensive package for developing countries .
The G-7 countries are Britain , Canada , France , Germany , Japan , Italy , and the United States .
Trade negotiators are working on a binding treaty that would expand the global economy by lowering trade barriers across all sectors .
Disputes over agricultural subsidies are the major stumbling block in the current round launched in Doha , Qatar in 2001 .
The London meeting expressed hope for a final accord by the end of next year .
Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair says last week 's terrorist attacks in London were probably carried out by Islamist extremists .
Speaking to parliament , Mr. Blair declined to give details on an ongoing police investigation .
But he praised the work of police and emergency services after the blasts on underground trains and a double-decker bus .
Opposition leader Michael Howard said he hopes the government in coming weeks will try to uncover possible security flaws exploited in the attacks .
Meantime , police say the confirmed number of dead in the bombings has risen to 52 , with about 700 people injured .
Forensic experts say it may be weeks before all of the victims are publicly identified .
London Mayor Ken Livingstone became the first to sign a book of condolences for the victims , writing " the city will endure . "
Japan 's foreign minister says his country and North Korea will resume bilateral talks on November 3 in Beijing .
Japanese Foreign Minister Nobutaka Machimura said Wednesday the talks will include North Korea 's nuclear weapons program and the abductee issue .
The North has admited abducting 13 Japanese citizens to help train North Korean spies .
Five of the abductees have returned to Japan .
Pyongyang says the other eight are dead .
Bilateral talks at government level have been held up since late last year when Japan accused North Korea of lying over the fate of the abductees .
Mr. Machimura said he expects North Korea to also bring up the issue of reparation for Japan 's colonial rule of Korea , from 1910 to 1945 .
Burkina Faso is a poor , landlocked country that relies heavily on cotton and gold exports for revenue .
The country has few natural resources and a weak industrial base .
About 90 % of the population is engaged in subsistence agriculture , which is vulnerable to periodic drought .
Cotton is the main cash crop .
Since 1998 , Burkina Faso has embarked upon a gradual privatization of state-owned enterprises and in 2004 revised its investment code to attract foreign investment .
As a result of this new code and other legislation favoring the mining sector , the country has seen an upswing in gold exploration and production .
By 2010 , gold had become the main source of export revenue .
British director Ken Loach 's The Wind that Shakes the Barley - a drama about the struggle for Irish independence in the 1920s - has won the Palme d'Or , the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival .
The runner-up prize , The Grand Prix , was won by the French film Flanders .
Other winners in this year 's Cannes festival include Mexico 's Alejandro Gonzales Inarritu as Best Director .
The female cast of the Spanish film Volver won collectively as Best actress - and the Best Actor award also want to a cast for Days of Glory , about North African soldiers defending France during World War II .
At least 12 people have died in Haiti after heavy rains caused flooding around earthquake-devastated Port-au-Prince .
The floods over the last several days were particularly damaging to tent cities where people have been living following the powerful earthquake in January that destroyed much of the capital . Water and earth crashed through low-lying areas , damaging structures and scattering objects in their paths .
At least two children are believed to be among the dead .
Aid groups working on earthquake relief have been ferrying supplies to the flood victims .
Experts have warned since the earthquake about the consequences of heavy rains on damaged areas .
The biggest U.S. automaker , General Motors , has announced it will boost production by 60,000 vehicles in response to rising sales , a result of the government 's Cash for Clunkers program .
GM said Tuesday it is adding shifts at plants in Canada and the U.S. , bringing some 1,350 laid-off employees back to work .
Analysts say rising sales have contributed to a shortage of the most sought-after car models .
GM emerged from bankruptcy last month .
Ford Motor Company also has announced it will increase production in response to brisk sales for its Ford Focus and Escape models .
Cash for Clunkers gives car owners up to $ 4,500 in rebates to trade in older , gas-guzzling vehicles for newer , more fuel-efficient models .
Some 200 students at the conservative Brigham Young University peacefully protested Wednesday against a planned appearance by U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney .
Cheney is scheduled to be the main speaker at the Utah university 's graduation ceremony April 26 .
The protesters at the largely Mormon university complained about Cheney 's ties to the war in Iraq , among other issues .
Meanwhile , supporters of Cheney 's visit staged a counter-protest and circulated a petition thanking the vice president for his upcoming visit .
Tuesday night , just over a dozen students at American University in Washington , D.C. protested an appearance by presidential aide Karl Rove .
Officials said the students threw objects at Rove and tried to lie down in front of his car .
He was emerging from an invitation-only speaking engagement for the school 's College Republicans .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has sworn in the chief justice and five other judges on the country 's Supreme Court .
A government statement says the ceremony took place Saturday at the presidential palace in Kabul .
The judges took the oath less than a week after the country 's parliament overwhelmingly approved their nominations .
U.S.-educated Abdul Salam Azimi , a former university professor , became chief justice .
He served as Mr. Karzai 's advisor before being nominated for the new post .
Azimi replaces Fazel Hadi Shinwari , whose reappointment in May had been rejected by lawmakers .
Shinwari had held the post since shortly after the ouster of the Taleban regime in late 2001 .
The Supreme Court plays a crucial role in Afghanistan , especially in the struggle over how much influence Islam should have in government and society .
The leader of Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tigers has issued an ultimatum to the government , warning his group will intensify the struggle for self-determination in 2006 if Colombo does not offer what he called a reasonable political settlement .
Velupillai Prabhakaran gave the warning in his annual policy speech Sunday , which concluded ceremonies honoring nearly 18,000 guerillas who died while battling government forces .
Mr. Prabhakaran urged newly-elected President Mahinda Rajapakse to propose a framework that satisfies the aspirations of minority Tamils , adding Tamil people have lost patience , hope and reached the brink of utter frustration .
His appeal came two days after President Rajapakse demanded revisions of the government 's cease-fire with the rebels .
The president said he was ready to open talks with the rebels , but rejected their demand for recognition of an autonomous homeland for Sri Lanka 's minority Tamils .
Greek President Costis Stephanopoulos has warned that Turkey 's entry into the European Union will require Ankara 's official recognition of the Greek Cypriot-led government on Cyprus .
Mr. Stephanopoulos issued the warning Sunday while acknowledging that relations between his country and its traditional rival , Turkey , have improved in recent years .
He promised Greece will help Turkey in gaining EU membership if Turkey helps resolve differences on Cyprus .
Leaders of the 25 EU countries are due to decide at a December summit whether to formally open EU membership talks with Turkey .
Cyprus has been divided since Turkish troops landed on the island in 1974 after a Greece-backed coup in Nicosia .
The Greek-led Cypriot government in the south of the island is recognized by all members of the global community except Turkey , which recognizes a government run by leaders of the Turkish community in the north .
The leader of Thailand 's coup says investigators have not yet found enough evidence to charge deposed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra with corruption .
General Sondhi Boonyaratglin says it will be difficult to implicate Mr. Thaksin .
He says the corruption probe is a long , difficult process that might not yield anything .
Sondhi made the statements in an interview with reporters from the Nation Multimedia Group Tuesday .
Sondhi had earlier justified the September coup against Mr. Thaksin by saying he and other military leaders wanted to unify the divided country and hold the Thai prime minister accountable for alleged graft and abuse of power .
Sondhi said if Mr. Thaksin tried to return to Thailand , his plane would not be allowed to land .
The former prime minister has been living in London .
Government figures show a cholera outbreak has killed at least 200 people in Cameroon and 40 people in neighboring Nigeria .
A Nigerian official said Thursday that at least 100 people have been infected in the northern Borno state where the outbreak surfaced last week .
Just across the border in northern Cameroon , officials say nearly 2,300 people have now been infected with the deadly water-borne disease since it was first detected in early May .
Health officials have been deployed to the area and investigations into the outbreaks are underway .
Cholera is common during the rainy season and is intensified by wastewater disposal issues and limited access to clean drinking water .
The disease causes vomiting and diarrhea that can result in dehydration .
If not treated , it can be fatal .
More than 260 people died of cholera in Nigeria in late 2009 , but Cameroon has not seen a cholera outbreak this widespread since 2004 .
President Bush has returned to Washington after a five-day trip to Europe designed to mend ties damaged by the Iraq war .
Mr. Bush is spending the day Friday resting up from the trip , and has no public events on his schedule .
His final stop was in Slovakia , where he raised concerns about Moscow 's commitment to democracy during talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Mr. Putin strongly rejected any suggestion that his country was turning away from democratic rule , saying " there can be no return to what we had before . "
During his three-nation tour , President Bush won a pledge from European Union and NATO members to assist with the reconstruction of Iraq .
But some issues remain unresolved , such as Europe 's desire to lift an embargo on selling arms to China , which is opposed by the United States .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the United States is increasing the danger to world security by overstepping its national borders .
Mr. Putin spoke Saturday at an annual security conference in Munich , Germany .
He described U.S. actions as dangerous and he said other countries do not feel secure because of them .
The Russian leader did not mention the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , but he rejected suggestions that NATO or the European Union had a right to intervene in such regional conflicts .
He said the legitimate use of force could only be done by the United Nations .
On the subject of Kosovo , Mr. Putin said Russia will not support any international plan to resolve the status of the Serb province without the agreement of both Kosovo 's minority Serbs and majority ethnic Albanians .
Russia has veto power on the U.N. Security Council .
Pakistani officials say troops have killed at least 25 militants in fighting near the border with Afghanistan .
A military spokesman , Major General Waheed Arshad , says the clashes began late Tuesday following the abduction of four Pakistani paramilitary soldiers in the South Waziristan region .
The soldiers had been moving on foot to their base in the tribal area , when they were overpowered and kidnapped by militants near the Afghan border .
Pakistani security forces launched artillery and mortar fire at militant positions in response .
No soldiers were killed in the fighting .
Pakistan 's government had earlier blamed South Waziristan-based militant leader Baitullah Mehsud for the assassination of opposition leader Benazir Bhutto in Rawalpindi .
Mehsud has denied involvement in last week 's attack on Bhutto .
Pakistani troops have been fighting intense battles with militants along the Afghan border .
Former President Bill Clinton has promised to keep helping survivors of last year 's tsunami disaster to rebuild their communities .
In a recorded message shown Monday at a ceremony in Indonesia , Mr. Clinton said he will not be satisfied until survivors have decent homes and job opportunities .
Nearly two million people were made homeless by the tsunami , and Mr. Clinton said tens of thousands are still living in inadequate shelters .
Mr. Clinton has helped raise money for tsunami recovery as a special U.N. envoy .
The United Nations says global donations have reached $ 13 billion , making it the most generous relief effort in history .
But , Asian countries are still struggling to set up a tsunami warning system for the Indian Ocean , and some coastal residents say they are afraid a tsunami will come again .
New York City , among the most aggressive U.S. municipalities in pursuing new public health regulations , is doing it again .
In 2003 , the City banned smoking indoors .
Last year , it prohibited restaurants from using trans fats in food .
Now , New York is requiring many restaurants to publish and post the calorie content of their foods , to help combat a growing " obesity epidemic . "
City officials say this is their way to fight the obesity epidemic and other U.S. cities are following the lead .
VOA 's Paige Kollock reports from New York .
China has unveiled a new set of emergency measures meant to clear the polluted air in the capital , Beijing , before the Olympic Games start on August 8 .
State media said Thursday that if air quality is poor , Chinese authorities will bring a halt to all construction projects and close more than 200 more factories in Beijing , Tianjin , and Hebei province .
The Xinhua news agency says the emergency measures would also restrict more vehicles from the roads .
At the beginning of July , Beijing banned 300,000 heavy-polluting trucks from the roads .
Last week , China banned more than a million cars from the streets of Beijing .
The International Olympic Committee has said it may postpone long-distance endurance events if air pollution is too severe .
Uganda 's main opposition leader has asked the Supreme Court to overturn the results of last month 's election that kept President Yoweri Museveni in power .
Defeated candidate Kizza Besigye Wednesday petitioned the court , alleging the elections were marred by bribery , intimidation , violence and a lack of transparency .
Besigye 's party rejected the results soon after the February 23 election .
The ruling party denied charges of interfering in the polls and called the opposition " bad losers . "
The official results showed Mr. Museveni winning 59 percent of the vote , compared to Besigye 's 37 percent .
Besigye was jailed for part of the campaign for what he has called politically motivated prosecutions .
Uganda 's High Court cleared Besigye of rape charges earlier this month .
He still faces charges of treason .
A suspected al-Qaida terrorist facing charges in a 2002 grenade attack in Afghanistan has appeared before a military tribunal at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Afghan Abdul Zahir is accused of hurling a grenade at a car carrying three journalists .
A Toronto Star correspondent in the vehicle , Kathleen Kenna , suffered leg injuries in the attack .
Zahir , who also faces charges of conspiracy and aiding the enemy , did not enter a plea .
Prosecutors allege Zahir aided the enemy by working as a translator and money courier for the al-Qaida terrorist network and by plotting attacks .
Proceedings were also scheduled this week for three other Guantanamo detainees .
Canadian teenager Omar Khadr is accused of throwing a grenade that killed a U.S. soldier in Afghanistan .
Ethiopian Binyam Muhammad stands accused of plotting attacks , and Yemeni Ali Hamza al Bahlul is linked to al-Qaida .
So far , only 10 of the nearly 500 Guantanamo prisoners have been charged .
Last week , the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in a landmark case challenging the legality of military tribunals established by the Bush administration in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
U.S. officials say a suspicious material found in a passenger 's bag that triggered a security scare at a California airport on Tuesday actually turned out to be bottles of honey .
The scare caused a shutdown at the Meadows Field Airport in the city of Bakersfield and a hazardous material crew and bomb squad were called to the scene .
Two Transportation Security Administration officers were also treated and released from the hospital after being exposed to what were described as " fumes " from the bottles .
Police say they are investigating to determine why the incident happened .
They said the owner of the bag has been cooperating .
Security at U.S. airports has been tightened since a Nigerian man 's botched attempt to blow up a U.S.-bound airliner on Christmas Day .
One day the Countrymen noticed that the Mountains were in labour ; smoke came out of their summits , the earth was quaking at their feet , trees were crashing , and huge rocks were tumbling .
They felt sure that something horrible was going to happen .
They all gathered together in one place to see what terrible thing this could be .
They waited and they waited , but nothing came .
At last there was a still more violent earthquake , and a huge gap appeared in the side of the Mountains .
They all fell down upon their knees and waited .
At last , and at last , a teeny , tiny mouse poked its little head and bristles out of the gap and came running down towards them , and ever after they used to say :
" Much outcry , little outcome . "
Senior U.S. officials say the Bush administration is ready to adopt a European proposal to offer Iran economic incentives to abandon its aggressive nuclear program .
The agreement , which has been widely anticipated since President Bush returned from Europe late last month , is expected to be formally announced later , Friday .
Under the proposal , the United States would allow Iran to join the World Trade Organization and buy aircraft spare parts .
In return , Britain , France and Germany will agree to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council if Tehran fails to give up its suspected nuclear weapons program .
Washington 's decision to embrace economic incentives is seen as a significant reversal from its refusal to reward Iran for what the United States regards as bad behavior .
Washington accuses Tehran trying to build nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is only for generating electricity .
The United Nations ' atomic watchdog agency has approved an agreement with Saudi Arabia that exempts its nuclear facilities from international inspections .
Western nations had lobbied for Saudi Arabia not to be included in the so-called Small Quantities Protocol , which allows nations with small nuclear programs to avoid inspections .
Diplomats said that in a time of heightened fears about the spread of nuclear weapons , the ability of the International Atomic Energy Agency to conduct inspections should not be restrained .
However , because the kingdom said it has no plans to develop nuclear arms and no significant stockpiles of nuclear material , the IAEA said it qualified for the protocol .
Since 1971 , some 75 nations throughout the world have signed the small quantities protocol .
A major earthquake has struck off the coast of Indonesia 's Sumatra island , but there are no immediate reports of damage or casualties .
The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake had a magnitude of 7.5 and a depth of about 15 kilometers .
Its epicenter was 78 kilometers west of Indonesia 's Pagai Selantan island , off Sumatra 's western coast .
The quake happened Monday at 1442 UTC .
Indonesian authorities initially issued a tsunami alert but later lifted it .
Indonesia straddles several fault lines that make the vast island nation vulnerable to volcanic and seismic activity .
A giant quake hit off Sumatra 's coast on December 26 , 2004 , triggering an Indian Ocean tsunami that killed 230,000 people , half of them in Indonesia 's Aceh province .
Albania 's opposition Socialist Party says it wants the country to investigate how thousands of foreigners , including suspected associates of Osama bin Laden , were granted Albanian citizenship .
Socialist officials say they will ask Albanian President Alfred Moisiu to review all grants of citizenship to foreigners between 1992 and 1997 .
The development comes one day after the U.S. Treasury Department moved to financially isolate a man with dual Jordanian and Albanian citizenship on suspicion of cooperating with Osama bin Laden and other terrorist leaders .
The Treasury says Abdul Latif Saleh founded a group aimed at destabilizing Albania by fomenting conflict among the country 's religious groups .
It says he has been expelled from Albania and was last known to reside in the United Arab Emirates .
A Rabbi , a Hindu , and a lawyer are in a car .
They run out of gas and are forced to stop at a farmer 's house .
The farmer says that there are only two extra beds , so one person will have to sleep in the barn .
The Hindu says , ' I 'm humble , I will sleep in the barn . '
So , he goes out to the barn .
In a few minutes , the farmer hears a knock on the door .
It 's the Hindu and he says , ' There is a cow in the barn .
It 's against my beliefs to sleep with a cow . '
So , the Rabbi says , ' I 'm humble , I 'll sleep in the barn . '
A few minutes later , the farmer hears another knock on the door and it 's the Rabbi .
He says that it is against his beliefs to sleep where there is a pig and there is a pig in the barn .
So , the lawyer is forced to sleep in the barn .
A few minutes later , there is a knock on the door .
It 's the pig and the cow ...
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says he does not expect an increase in U.S. aid for tsunami-devastated southern Asia , as he begins a tour of the region to assess the disaster .
Mr. Powell and a U.S. team that includes President Bush 's brother , Florida Governor Jeb Bush , arrived in Bangkok Monday .
They will meet with Thai officials and tour damaged areas of the country before heading later this week to Indonesia and possibly Sri Lanka .
Secretary Powell told reporters today the U.S. aid donation of $ 350 million is adequate at this point .
The United States has faced criticism it was slow to respond to the disaster .
So far the international community has pledged $ 2 billion for disaster relief .
Mr. Powell will join world leaders and international donors in Jakarta , Indonesia , Thursday , for a summit on allocating donations , as well as assessing future needs .
Burma 's military government has released the daughter of the country 's former dictator Ne Win after six years under house arrest .
Sandar Win had been under house arrest at her lakeside home in the main city of Rangoon since 2002 , after being convicted of treason for plotting a coup .
She was released Friday .
Her husband Aye Zaw Win and three sons were sentenced to death for the same crime , but remain locked up in Rangoon 's notorious Insein prison .
Ne Win came to power in 1962 after a coup against Burma 's first elected post-independence prime minister U Nu .
Ne Win 's socialist programs took Burma from one of the richest countries in Southeast Asia to poverty .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says the Muslim world must correct Western misperceptions created by clerics about Islam as a religion that fosters militant extremism .
He told a meeting of the World Islamic Economic Forum in Islamabad the rise in extremism in the Muslim world has been caused by semi-literate clerics who hold sway over the masses .
He said this is the critical malaise that spawns terrorism .
In a wide-ranging speech , General Musharraf painted a bleak picture of the social and economic prospects facing the world 's 57 Muslim nations , pointing out that their combined gross national products were less than that of a single European nation , Germany .
He also urged Muslim nations to fight corruption , set up good governance and empower women in order to achieve economic development .
Benin has postponed its presidential run-off election to Wednesday to give election officials more time to prepare .
The West African nation 's constitutional court Friday announced it had delayed the election , originally set for Sunday , by three days .
The decision upholds a motion by the National Elections Commission calling for a postponement .
Political newcomer Yayi Boni won the first round of polls with 36 percent of the vote .
The former head of the West African Development Bank will face off against former speaker of parliament Adrien Houngbedji , who took 24 percent in the initial balloting .
The two candidates are each trying to win endorsement from the 24 candidates who finished behind them .
The winner will replace outgoing president Mathieu Kerekou .
President Kerekou , who is 72 , is barred by constitutional term limits , as well as an age cap , from seeking re-election .
New economic data Thursday show the U.S. job market getting worse , while the troubled factory sector got a little better .
The number of newly-laid off Americans signing up for unemployment aid rose by 12,000 to hit the highest level ( 669,000 ) in 26 years last week .
Thursday 's report from the U.S. Labor Department also showed the number of people collecting jobless aid for more than one week hit yet another record high above 5.7 million .
A separate government report on new orders to U.S. factories said they rose 1.8 percent in February .
The increase follows six straight months of declines .
Government experts publish a more detailed look at the battered U.S. job market on Friday , when they report the unemployment rate for March .
Economists surveyed by news organizations predict the jobless rate will surge four-tenths of a percent to hit 8.5 percent , the highest level in more than two decades .
Malawi anti-corruption officials say they are probing allegations that former President Bakili Muluzi illegally pocketed millions of dollars during his time in office .
A top anti-corruption official said Tuesday the investigation is focusing on transactions Mr. Muluzi had with Taiwan , Libya , Morocco , Rwanda and at least one unnamed foreign organization .
The official said his agency has summoned the former president for questioning on October 24 .
Mr. Muluzi was president from 1994 until last year .
Current President Bingu Wa Mutharika has made fighting corruption a major focus of his administration .
Prosecutors have begun probes against former officials who served under Mr. Muluzi .
The investigations have angered many of the former president 's allies , who have launched attempts to impeach Mr. Mutharika .
One day after hearing grievances from American troops in Kuwait heading to Iraq , U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has reacted positively , saying it is the job of officials to listen and act .
Mr. Rumsfeld , who was in India Thursday , said the questions by the troops covered a wide spectrum and that only a few were difficult .
Some of the servicemen asked the defense secretary why their vehicles were not adequately protected .
Others complained about deployments being extended , even though they were eligible to leave the military .
At the White House , President Bush said the concerns of the troops are being addressed .
He said he did not blame the soldiers for raising the issue , saying he would have asked Mr. Rumsfeld the same question if he was a soldier fighting overseas .
Iceland is defying an international ban and opened its commercial whale hunting season on Tuesday .
Fishing Ministry officials say they have given whalers permission to hunt a limit of 40 minke whales for meat over the next six months .
Many in Iceland defend whaling as a centuries-old tradition .
They say whalers will be careful not to kill endangered species .
But some , including members of the Social Democratic Alliance , the junior partner in the ruling coalition government , say whaling damages Iceland 's reputation abroad .
They also say it drives away tourists who want to see the mammals in their natural surroundings .
Environmentalists decry whaling for commercial and scientific purposes .
The International Whaling Commission banned commercial whale hunts in 1986 to preserve the dwindling population .
Iceland began defying the ban two years ago .
Japan and Norway also want the ban lifted .
South African Nobel Peace laureate , Archbishop Desmond Tutu , has accused world leaders of ignoring continued oppression in Burma .
In an opinion piece published in Thursday 's International Herald Tribune , Archbishop Tutu said Burma 's military government believes it can get away with human rights abuses because global pressure on Rangoon is weak .
He said the global words of protest against Burma must translate into action .
Archbishop Tutu said Burmese pro-democracy advocates want what he called the " maximum diplomatic and economic pressures " applied against Burma 's military government .
His message comes ahead of the upcoming Asia-Europe Meeting in Vietnam , which is being attended by a low-level delegation from Burma .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel met Saturday with Nelson Mandela , and afterwards urged the world to follow the former South African president 's legacy of peace to resolve Africa 's conflicts .
The two talked about ways to broker peace across the continent and about efforts to fight AIDS .
Ms. Merkel was scheduled to visit an HIV / AIDS project in Cape Town later in the day .
The German chancellor is on a five-day visit to Africa .
She arrived in South Africa Thursday from Ethiopia .
She travels to Liberia on Sunday .
Ms. Merkel is working to lay the groundwork for a summit between leaders of the African Union and the European Union , set for December in Portugal .
China is asking other nations to help it find and return foreign investors who flee the country , leaving behind empty factories and massive debts .
The state run Xinhua news agency says in eastern Shandong province alone , at least 87 companies funded by South Korean investors left this year without properly liquidating assets .
It says China will seek extradition of fugitive investors in cases where large sums of money are involved .
The global economic downturn has hit Chinese manufacturing and export industries especially hard as demand declines for Chinese products .
Thousands of factories have closed across the country and Chinese media reports millions of migrant workers have left factory jobs to return to the countryside .
Thousands of demonstrators have burned Danish and Dutch flags in the Afghan capital in the latest protests against cartoons and a film considered insulting to Islam .
Angry protesters gathered in Kabul after Friday prayers to demand that Danish and Dutch troops withdraw from Afghanistan and that their embassies be shut down .
They also burned an effigy of a Dutch filmmaker , who is due to release a film said to be critical of the Koran .
Protesters are also angry at Danish newspapers that reprinted cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad , first published three years ago .
Similar protests have erupted over the past month in Pakistan .
On Wednesday , al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden released a message , warning the European Union will be punished for allowing the cartoons to be published .
A court in Yemen 's capital , Sana'a , has sentenced six Somali pirates to death and six more to 10 years in jail for hijacking a Yemeni ship .
The verdict on Tuesday convicts the 12 Somalis of killing two crew members and wounding four others while trying to seize the oil tanker off the coast of the seaport city of Aden .
The incident occurred in April last year .
Piracy is a major problem off the coast of Somalia , where gangs of pirates have hijacked dozens of ships in the past few years .
International naval patrols have largely not been able to stop the attacks .
Furthermore , many captured pirates have been released because no country would prosecute them .
Kenya has conducted some pirate trials but recently said its justice system is overburdened .
German and Polish police have arrested 10 people in a cross-border operation targeting suspected smugglers of steroids .
German police say more than 200 officers took part in raids in more than 50 buildings in cities in Germany and in the Polish port city of Gdansk .
Police say the steroids had been distributed among body builders and insist that there was no indication the drugs were to be used by participants in other sports .
SOME Apes who had deposed their king fell at once into dissension and anarchy .
In this strait they sent a Deputation to a neighbouring tribe to consult the Oldest and Wisest Ape in All the World .
" My children , " said the Oldest and Wisest Ape in All the World , when he had heard the Deputation , " you did right in ridding yourselves of tyranny , but your tribe is not sufficiently advanced to dispense with the forms of monarchy .
Entice the tyrant back with fair promises , kill him and enthrone .
The skeleton of even the most lawless despot makes a good constitutional sovereign . "
At this the Deputation was greatly abashed .
" It is impossible , " they said , moving away ; " our king has no skeleton ; he was stuffed . "
Hundreds of Koreans Monday have seen long-lost relatives for the first time in more than 50 years through a video link between divided North and South Korea .
Eighty families are participating in the virtual reunions Monday and Tuesday .
The Associated Press reports that each family is given two hours to see and talk to relatives on the other side of the border .
Millions of Korean families were separated following the division of the Korean Peninsula after the end of World War Two in 1945 , and again with the sealing of the border at the end of the Korean War in 1953 .
There is no direct mail , telephone service or other form of communication between ordinary citizens across the border .
Iranian university students demonstrated Wednesday in support of their government 's pursuit of nuclear technology .
The students formed a human chain around the Natanz nuclear facility in central Iran and chanted slogans against the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Last Thursday , the IAEA angered Iran when its board of governors passed a resolution expressing serious concern at Tehran 's decision to end a voluntary suspension of uranium enrichment .
The Natanz facility is still closed , but last week , the uranium conversion plant at Isfahan resumed operations .
On Tuesday , hundreds of Iranians demonstrated outside that site , demanding their government continue its controversial nuclear program .
The European Union has been in ongoing talks with Iran , trying to persuade the Iranians to permanently end their enrichment activities in exchange for a series of political and economic incentives .
Iraq 's newly sworn-in presidential council has named Shi'ite politician Ibrahim al-Jaafari interim prime minister .
Mr. al-Jaafari , the head of the influential Islamic Dawa party , told a news conference the day represents a big step forward for Iraq .
He also said he hopes to form a government within two weeks .
Mr. al-Jaafari 's appointment followed Thursday 's historic swearing-in of Kurdish politician Jalal Talabani as Iraq 's first freely-elected president in more than 50 years .
In remarks to legislators gathered at the ceremony inside Baghdad 's heavily protected Green Zone , President Talabani urged Sunni Arabs - who are believed to make up the backbone of the insurgency - to participate in the democratic process .
Two vice presidents also took the oath of office .
They are Shi'ite Adel Abdul Mahdi and Sunni Arab Ghazi al-Yawar .
Officials say a bomb blast has killed at least eight people in Pakistan 's northwestern tribal region .
Friday 's explosion rocked a crowded bazaar in Khyber , home to a major supply route for NATO troops in neighboring Afghanistan .
Authorities say at least 14 people were wounded when the bomb exploded near a shop .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack .
Pakistani tribal areas bordering Afghanistan are a known sanctuary for Taliban and al-Qaida-linked militants .
Security in the Khyber region is considered a top priority for Washington , since it is part of NATO 's supply route into Afghanistan .
North Korea says U.S. spy planes flew about 180 missions over the country in October .
The North 's official news agency said Monday that the spy flights are an example of how , privately , the United States seeks to militarily undermine Pyongyang .
The Pentagon declined to comment on the allegations .
North Korea and the United States have attended four rounds of multiparty talks to resolve a standoff over Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
At the last round in September , North Korea pledged to abandon those weapons programs in exchange for economic aid , security assurances and diplomatic recognition .
However , Pyongyang later demanded a light-water reactor , raising doubts about its willingness to proceed .
The next round of talks is scheduled for early November , but no date has been announced .
An Italian intelligence agent who was kidnapped last month in Afghanistan has died of injuries sustained during a NATO raid to free him .
Italian Defense Ministry officials say Lorenzo D'Auria died Thursday in a hospital near Rome .
The 33-year-old agent suffered critical head injuries as he was being rescued from Afghan rebels during a NATO-led raid on September 24 .
Members of the Taleban had kidnapped D'Auria and another Italian intelligence officer two days before the raid .
At least five of their abductors were reported killed during the gunbattle between NATO-led forces and the rebels .
NATO has denied Italian media reports that the two agents were wounded by friendly fire during the raid .
Instead , NATO says the hostages were struck when their Taleban captors opened fire .
There are more than 2,000 Italian soldiers currently stationed in Afghanistan .
Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi has extended the country 's emergency laws for another 30 days , to guard against attacks in the run-up to the January 30 election .
The emergency laws , originally announced two months ago and set to expire Thursday , give the government special powers to impose curfews and restrict movement between cities .
Meanwhile , in Jordan , Iraq 's neighbors are holding a conference that is expected to endorse the election and urge Iraqis to defy boycott calls from some Sunni groups that are concerned about the escalating violence .
In another development , police say the bodies of 18 young Shi'ite men have been found shot execution-style near the northern city of Mosul , where they were headed to work at a U.S. military base .
Their bodies were discovered Wednesday , but police say the men were killed nearly a month ago .
Officials in Sri Lanka say a ferry carrying more than 150 foreign nationals and aid workers from the troubled northern Jaffna Peninsula has arrived at an eastern port .
The ferry , flying an International Committee of the Red Cross flag , docked at Trincomalee early Sunday .
It is one of several ferries planned to evacuate foreign passport holders from the war-torn region .
As the vessel pulled into port , artillery fire could be heard in the distance .
Many foreign aid agencies have been forced to stop work and pull staff out of Jaffna until it becomes clear whether a 2002 ceasefire will hold , or Sri Lanka returns to civil war .
The United Nations says intense fighting in the north and east between Tamil rebels and government forces has forced more than 200-thousand people from their homes .
More than two decades of fighting has killed 65,000 people in Sri Lanka .
China has rejected a U.S. appeal to reconsider a bill that would allow the use of force against Taiwan .
China 's National People 's Congress is expected to pass the controversial anti-secession law on Monday .
It would authorize military action if Taiwan , which Beijing considers a renegade province , moves toward formal independence .
The White House Tuesday called the measure " unhelpful " and asked Beijing to reconsider .
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Thursday called the remark " irresponsible . "
Meanwhile , officials of Taiwan 's pro-independence party say they will organize a protest March 26th against the proposed Chinese law .
Su Tseng-chang , chairman of the Democratic Progressive Party , said Thursday that China 's anti-secession bill poses an immediate threat to the democratically-ruled island .
The U.S. Space Shuttle Atlantis has been moved from its launchpad to assess damage done to it by an intense storm last week .
A hailstorm caused more than 1,000 indentations in the foam insulation of the shuttle 's large external fuel tank .
The 5.5-kilometer trip to the hanger took about seven hours Sunday .
The NASA space agency says the up-close look will allow engineers to determine how long repairs will take .
Atlantis had been scheduled for a March 15 launch for another construction mission to the International Space Station .
NASA says the mission 's crew will continue to train in Houston as they await a new launch date .
British authorities have filed charges against the first of four suspects in the attempted bombings on London 's public transport system on July 21 .
Officials say 24-year-old Yassin Hassan Omar is charged with conspiracy to murder and possession of an explosive substance .
He was arrested July 27 in the northern city of Birmingham .
Two other July 21 suspects are in custody in London , and a fourth is held in Italy .
None of the bombs exploded in the attacks , which came two weeks after four bombers killed themselves and 52 others on three London subway trains and a bus .
One of the most visible destinations in Washington is marking the capital 's summer tourist season this year with an exhibit dedicated to the environment and sustainability .
People usually visit the U.S. Botanic Garden to see a variety of plants and greenery .
This year , they can learn about personal ways to fight climate change .
Producer Zulima Palacio has the story .
Marissa Melton narrates .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf has urged the nation 's lawyers to help ease the political crisis triggered by his removal of the country 's top judge .
General Musharraf made the comment Friday in Islamabad , at a military parade held to mark the annual Pakistan Day holiday .
He also urged Pakistanis to help fight extremism and terrorism in their country .
Lawyers and opposition parties have held nationwide protests for the past two weeks , since General Musharraf removed the country 's chief justice , Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry .
Critics say the president is trying to interfere with the independence of the judiciary .
Several legal professionals in Pakistan have resigned in protest of Chaudhry 's removal .
Chaudhry 's supporters say the independent-minded justice was removed because of pending legal challenges related to General Musharraf 's dual posts as president and army chief of staff .
The political party of Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko has suspended coalition talks with ex-ally Yulia Tymoshenko .
Our Ukraine party officials say at issue is Tymoshenko 's recent statement that the post of prime minister should go to her supporters , because Mr. Yushchenko is president .
Senior officials of Mr. Yushchenko 's Our Ukraine party have said in the past they will not accept Tymoshenko as prime minister .
She was fired from that post last year following infighting in the cabinet .
No party won enough parliamentary seats in the March 26 general election to form a government .
The pro-Russian opposition Party of the Regions won 32 percent of the vote , followed by Tymoshenko 's liberal bloc with 22 percent .
Our Ukraine won about 14 percent .
The new parliament is scheduled to convene on May 25 .
Hundreds of Muslims in several Pakistani cities held street protests after prayers Friday to condemn Pope Benedict XVI for remarks that they consider anti-Islamic .
An opposition alliance of religious-based parties called the Muttehida Majlis-e-Amal or United Action Front organized the protests .
Prayer leaders also condemned the pope during Friday sermons around the country .
Emotions have been high in the Muslim world since the Roman Catholic leader quoted a 14th century emperor who called some of the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad evil and inhumane .
The pontiff spoke about the Prophet last week to scholars in Germany .
Since then , he has acknowledged that his remarks were open to misinterpretation and he has apologized for them .
He insists that he did not intend to endorse a negative view of Islam and that the comments did not reflect his personal opinions .
Gunmen in Iraq kidnapped a Catholic archbishop Monday and insurgents hit security forces in a series of attacks that killed at least 20 people .
The Vatican called the kidnapping of the Syrian Catholic Church 's Mosul archbishop , Basile Georges Casmoussa , a terrorist act .
Meanwhile , an attack on a checkpoint near Baquba killed seven Iraqi guardsmen and a civilian .
Terrorists loyal to al-Qaida-linked Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility .
Later , a car bomb outside a police station in Baiji killed at least seven Iraqi officers .
Insurgents also attacked police in Sharqat and Dour , killing one officer in each city .
Near Fallujah , two U.S. soldiers were killed in action .
No other details were released .
And in Basra , gunmen killed a security guard at a polling place for January 30th 's elections .
U.S. forces have detained 91 suspected insurgents since Saturday as they step up security for the vote .
Anti-Bush demonstration in the center of Amsterdam
Around 1,000 people , protesting the U.S.-led war in Iraq , have demonstrated in Amsterdam ahead of President Bush 's arrival in the Netherlands .
The protesters gathered on Museum Square outside the U.S. consulate carrying signs with slogans criticizing Mr. Bush 's Iraq policy .
Meanwhile , as many as 100 others demonstrated in Maastricht in the southern Netherlands , where Mr. Bush arrived Saturday evening .
He plans to attend a ceremony Sunday at the American Cemetery in Margraten to mark the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II .
Several people were injured in Indian Kashmir Tuesday in a clash between Muslim protesters and police in Srinagar .
Indian police fired tear gas to break up hundreds of Shi'ite Muslims protesting the publication of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in European newspapers .
A police spokesman says more than 50 people were arrested .
The violence began when police stopped a procession , which began in observance of Ashoura .
Ashoura marks the anniversary of the death of Imam Hussein , the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad .
Police say they stopped the protesters because they began their procession without official permission .
Iraq 's Interim President Ghazi al-Yawar is meeting at the White House with President Bush on security issues and arrangements for next month 's elections in Iraq .
Mr. Yawar is against postponing the elections , scheduled for January 30 .
The Iraqi president told American journalists Sunday that delaying elections for a national assembly would only " prolong the agony " that Iraqis have suffered during months of insurgent attacks .
Mr. Yawar is an influential leader in the Sunni Muslim areas of Iraq where insurgent attacks have been the fiercest .
President Bush agrees that Iraq 's elections should not be delayed .
Later today , Mr. Bush also meets at the White House with Jordan 's King Abdullah .
Iraqi political and religious leaders have held their first committee meeting aimed at promoting Prime Minister Naouri al-Maliki 's national reconciliation plan to end sectarian violence .
But officials say little over half the group 's 30 members attended Saturday 's talks .
Following the meeting , Mr. Maliki said insurgents guilty of bloodshed should not be included in his proposed amnesty .
But Parliament speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani said Iraq should punish American soldiers who killed Iraqi civilians if the country is going to hold insurgents accountable for killing foreign troops .
The meeting was held as Mr. Maliki prepares for a Tuesday visit to Washington for talks with President Bush .
Violence continued in Iraq today , with gunmen killing seven workers in Baghdad .
Iraqi police also killed three insurgents during a raid in Mosul .
And a roadside bomb killed a U.S. soldier in Baghdad .
Iran has urged the International Atomic Energy Agency to ignore an exiled opposition group 's allegation that Tehran has a secret nuclear weapons facility .
The chief Iranian delegate to the Vienna-based nuclear agency , Hossein Mousavian , said Friday the IAEA should not damage its prestige by listening to the charges of what he called a terrorist group .
He told Reuters news agency the charge is baseless and will only harm relations between Tehran and IAEA members .
One member , the United States , has accused Iran of secretly developing atomic weapons .
Tehran has consistently denied that accusation , saying its nuclear program is designed to generate electricity .
Outgoing U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said this week Iran could be developing nuclear capable missiles .
The Washington Post newspaper says Mr. Powell 's assertion was based on information that has not been verified .
Some informtion for this report provided by AP , AFP and Reuters .
The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast granted the UK control of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th century treaties .
In 1971 , six of these states - Abu Zaby , 'Ajman , Al Fujayrah , Ash Shariqah , Dubayy , and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to form the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) .
They were joined in 1972 by Ra 's al Khaymah .
The UAE 's per capita GDP is on par with those of leading West European nations .
Its generosity with oil revenues and its moderate foreign policy stance have allowed the UAE to play a vital role in the affairs of the region .
For more than three decades , oil and global finance drove the UAE 's economy .
However , in 2008 - 09 , the confluence of falling oil prices , collapsing real estate prices , and the international banking crisis hit the UAE especially hard .
In March 2011 , about 100 Emirati activists and intellectuals posted on the Internet and sent to the government a petition calling for greater political reform , including the establishment of a parliament with full legislative powers and the further expansion of the electorate and the rights of the Federal National Council , the UAE 's quasi-legislature .
In April 2011 , the Emirati Government arrested four activists - all of whom signed the petition - for their alleged criticisms of the UAE system of government .
A U.S. soldier has been sentenced to four months detention without pay for mistreating an Afghan detainee at a base in southern Uruzgan province .
Military officials say the soldier , who was accused of beating the detainee , was convicted during a court martial on Friday .
The soldier also was demoted after being found guilty of maltreatment and conspiracy to maltreat .
A second soldier accused in the incident is scheduled to face a court martial on Monday .
U.S. military personnel have been accused in other instances of Afghan prisoner abuse .
But U.S. officials deny widespread mistreatment of those held in military custody .
Officials in Cuba say they are unsure as to whether Cuban President Fidel Castro will participate in the country 's upcoming May Day celebrations .
However , they say he is taking an active role in the country 's key decision-making .
Speculations on the Cuban leader 's participation came after Bolivian President Evo Morales said Saturday that Mr. Castro would resume his role as president on May 1 .
More than six million Cubans are expected to participate in the annual celebration which marks International Workers Day .
The 80-year-old Cuban leader has not appeared in public since undergoing intestinal surgery in July .
His brother Raul Castro has been temporary appointed as the country 's leader .
The World Food Program says it has flown its final aid flight to Burma 's cyclone-ravaged Irrawaddy Delta .
A statement from the group says the flight took off Friday from Bangkok 's Don Mueang airport .
The airport has served as a staging point for sending supplies to Burma since the country 's military-rulers first allowed foreign aid flights in late May , weeks after the storm hit .
Cyclone Nargis hit Burma on May 2 and 3 , leaving at least 134,000 people dead or missing as it tore across the country 's agricultural belt .
The WFP says that since its flights began on May 24 , it has flown nearly 4,000 tons of cargo to Burma , including shelter material , mosquito nets and water purification equipment .
Ethiopia 's poverty-stricken economy is based on agriculture , accounting for almost 45 % of GDP , and 85 % of total employment .
The agricultural sector suffers from frequent drought and poor cultivation practices .
Coffee is critical to the Ethiopian economy with exports of some $ 350 million in 2006 , but historically low prices have seen many farmers switching to qat to supplement income .
Under Ethiopia 's constitution , the state owns all land and provides long-term leases to the tenants ; the system continues to hamper growth in the industrial sector as entrepreneurs are unable to use land as collateral for loans .
In November 2001 , Ethiopia qualified for debt relief from the Highly Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) initiative , and in December 2005 the IMF forgave Ethiopia 's debt .
The global economic downturn led to balance of payments pressures , partially alleviated by recent emergency funding from the IMF .
While GDP growth has remained high , per capita income is among the lowest in the world .
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg has called for an immediate end to the public transit strike that has shut down the city 's subways and buses for a second day .
Taking a tough line , the mayor repeatedly called the strike " selfish and illegal . "
He said the city has asked for a temporary restraining order against the transport union workers , which would subject them to additional penalties for participating in the strike .
He said workers are already losing two days ' pay for each day of the strike .
Hours after the strike started Tuesday , a judge imposed a $ 1 million a day fine on the union for each day the city 's subways and buses are shut down .
Mayor Bloomberg said restaurant profits are down by 40 percent since the strike started , and the number of shoppers in stores has been cut in half .
An Iranian doctor who says he examined Canadian photojournalist Zahra Kazemi says she was tortured and raped before she died in Iranian police custody in 2003 .
Doctor Shahram Azam says he examined Ms. Kazemi at an Iranian military hospital days after her arrest for taking pictures outside a Tehran prison .
He says her body showed signs of rape , and that she had a broken nose and fingers .
His account has not been independently confirmed and it contradicts Iranian officials who say she died after a fall and hitting her head .
Doctor Azam recently received asylum in Canada .
Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Pierre Pettigrew says his statement shows that Iran is failing in guaranteeing basic human rights .
Ms. Kazemi 's death sparked a diplomatic crisis , with Canada briefly recalling its ambassador from Iran .
Turkish officials say a land mine killed two soldiers Saturday in the latest violence with separatist fighters in the country 's largely Kurdish southeast .
The officials say the blast wounded two other members of Turkey 's security forces .
The explosion came one day after Turkish forces killed six members of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party during a clash in Sirnak , near the Iraqi border .
The Turkish army has stepped up operations in the southeast following a spike in violence in the region .
Turkey , the United States and the European Union consider the Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) a terrorist organization .
More than 30,000 people have been killed since the PKK started fighting a separatist campaign in 1984 .
Israeli aircraft have fired missiles against targets in the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian security officials say the strikes overnight Saturday targeted a car in the central town of Deir al-Balah , and an area in northern Gaza .
Further details were not immediately available .
In other developments in Gaza , a previously unknown Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the abduction of an Egyptian diplomat .
News agencies say they received a statement Friday from a group calling itself the Al Ahrar Brigades demanding within 48 hours the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Egypt .
The authenticity of the statement could not be verified .
Palestinian officials say the diplomat , Hussam al-Musli , was traveling to the Egyptian diplomatic offices in Gaza City Thursday when masked gunmen surrounded his car and abducted him .
The Gaza Strip has seen a rash of kidnappings by Palestinian gunmen since Israel 's pullout in September .
The Bush administration has moved to freeze the assets of a Syrian man it says is aiding the insurgency in Iraq .
The U.S. government Tuesday formally designated Sulayman Khalid Darwish as a supporter of terrorism under an executive order President Bush signed in 2001 .
The Treasury Department said Mr. Darwish , who is now in Syria , has provided tens of thousands of dollars to wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the Jordanian suspected of leading the Iraq insurgency .
The department describes him as a close Zarqawi associate and says he also recruited fighters for Zarqawi 's organization .
Today 's action puts an automatic freeze on any assets Mr. Darwish may have in the United States .
The government has also submitted his name to a United Nations committee that will consider adding him to a consolidated list of terrorists tied to al-Qaida .
Mexico is condemning the shooting death of a young Mexican man by a U.S. Border Patrol agent as he tried to sneak into California last week .
A Border Patrol spokesman says the man was shot after he began throwing rocks at the agent .
The shooting occurred after a small group of men , including the shooting victim , crossed a border fence into U.S. territory .
Mexican authorities say 18-year-old Guillermo Martinez fled back into Mexico and died the next day in a Tijuana hospital .
A spokesman for President Vicente Fox said the shooting proves that a law guaranteeing Mexicans legal entry to the United States is the only way to resolve the issue .
U.S. lawmakers recently ordered construction of security fencing along the U.S.-Mexican border to curb illegal border-crossing , another move that Mexican authorities protested .
Police in Haiti say they have killed a rebel leader who helped oust former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide last year .
Police spokesmen say Remissainthe Ravix was shot dead during a gun battle Saturday between authorities and armed men in Port-au-Prince .
Authorities had been searching for Mr. Ravix for his alleged involvement in the killing of four police officers earlier this year .
Mr. Ravix , the self-proclaimed leader of Haiti 's disbanded military , was one of four leaders of a February 2004 revolt that forced Mr. Aristide to flee the country .
Since then , U.N. peacekeepers and Haiti 's interim government have been struggling to contain violence involving the ex-soldiers and several street gangs .
The former army soldiers still control several rural areas in Haiti .
Thailand 's military-backed interim prime minister Surayud Chulanont is in Indonesia to meet with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono .
Mr. Surayud 's visit Saturday is the latest in a flurry of introductory diplomatic trips to Thailand 's neighbors following last month 's coup .
The Thai interim prime minister has visited Malaysia , Laos and Cambodia and is scheduled to meet leaders in the Philippines and Vietnam next week .
Mr. Surayud , a former army general , was appointed by a Thai military council that ousted former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra in September .
The World Bank has approved $ 73 million in loans to help Haiti 's economic and disaster recovery efforts .
Bank President James Wolfensohn said in a statement Thursday the main goal is to help Haiti 's government deliver urgently needed basic services to its people and strengthen the transparency and credibility of public institutions .
Mr. Wolfensohn also said the bank plans to disburse $ 46 million of the assistance in the coming days .
Haiti is the Western Hemisphere 's poorest country .
Last February , an armed rebellion in the impoverished nation led to the ouster of then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
He now lives in exile in South Africa .
In September , Haiti was devastated by Tropical Storm Jeanne , which caused widespread flooding .
Some 2,000 people were killed and thousands more left homeless .
Italians nationwide are protesting the rising cost of food with a day-long pasta strike - not against eating pasta , but against buying it .
Organizers Thursday were giving away pasta , bread and milk in cities throughout Italy .
They asked consumers to abstain from buying pasta products for the day .
Consumer groups in Italy have organized a nationwide protest against sharp price increases of some staple foods .
In the case of pasta , the price rise is to be as high as 20 percent .
Italy 's Ansa news agency quotes one of the organizers as saying that strikes in about 100 cities are aimed at forcing the government to consider the effect of the rising cost of food on families .
Ansa also quotes a government official , Antonio Catricala , who assured consumer groups that authorities will give due attention to the matter .
Economists say rising prices of wheat have caused the pasta price increase .
Ivory Coast 's prime minister has resigned from his post as the head of the country 's main rebel group to concentrate on organizing the country 's long-delayed presidential elections .
Guillaume Soro announced Friday he would no longer lead the New Forces rebels .
Mr. Soro became Ivory Coast 's prime minister in 2007 after the government of President Laurent Gbagbo signed a power- sharing deal with the rebels , ending a civil war that left the country divided between the rebel-controlled north and the government-controlled south .
The elections have been delayed since 2005 .
The question of who is eligible to vote is at the heart of the country 's election dispute .
U.S. shipping giant Fed Ex says it will build a new Asia-Pacific shipping hub in southern China .
Fed Ex chairman Frederick Smith made the announcement Wednesday in Guangzhou , where the new $ 150 - million facility will be located .
Mr. Smith says around 1,200 people will be employed at the new hub , which will handle up to 24,000 packages a day .
The Guangzhou hub will replace Fed Ex 's current operation at Subic Bay , Philippines , which will be phased out when new center opens in December 2008 .
The company is predicting that air freight from China to the U.S. will grow an average of 9.6 percent a year over the next 20 years .
Israel 's justice minister says he has decided to resign , clearing the way for him to stand trial on charges of sexually harassing a teenage female soldier .
Haim Ramon is a leading member of the ruling Kadima Party and is considered a key ally of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert .
Ramon issued a statement Friday , saying he will resign Sunday and has waived his parliamentary immunity and the right to a special hearing with the attorney general , Meni Mazuz .
Ramon denied having forcibly kissed the soldier and said he has asked Mazuz to ensure a speedy trial both " for personal reasons " and " public interest . "
On Thursday , Attorney General Mazuz said he decided to indict Ramon because evidence leads to " a reasonable chance of conviction . "
Bosnia Herzegovina 's war crimes court has confirmed charges against three Bosnian Croats accused of war crimes against Muslim civilians during the Balkan conflict .
In an official statement released Monday , the court confirmed charges against the three former Bosnian Croat soldiers .
Court officials say the soldiers are responsible for planning and ordering the murder , rape and torture of Muslims in the southern city of Mostar in the early 1990s .
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly , and said , " Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your wants , while you do nothing but take your rest , and enjoy yourself in luxury and self-indulgence ? '
The Members carried out their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly .
The whole Body quickly became debilitated , and the hands , feet , mouth , and eyes , when too late , repented of their folly .
As in the body , so in the state , each member in his proper sphere must work for the common good
U.S. officials say President Bush is " extremely pleased " with the results of the Busan summit talks among Asian and Pacific leaders .
Faryar Shirzad , a presidential adviser on international economic affairs , says the leaders held extensive discussions on trade and economic issues , as well as security concerns during their two days of talks .
Speaking to reporters aboard Mr. Bush 's plane after departing Busan , Mr. Shirzad said the leaders met in private for two hours Saturday , " with senior officials from each government able to listen in from a remote location . "
The White House adviser said discussions centered on the threat that militant extremist groups pose to members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum .
The exact origins of the Nauruans are unclear since their language does not resemble any other in the Pacific .
Germany annexed the island in 1888 .
A German-British consortium began mining the island 's phosphate deposits early in the 20th century .
Australian forces occupied Nauru in World War I ; it subsequently became a League of Nations mandate .
After the Second World War - and a brutal occupation by Japan - Nauru became a UN trust territory .
It achieved independence in 1968 and joined the UN in 1999 as the world 's smallest independent republic .
The International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) is expected to warn that the Organization of Oil Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and oil companies are not investing enough in new oil production and refining .
In a front page story , The Financial Times newspaper says the warning is part of an IMF report to be published later this week .
According to the article , without more investment , production capacity is not likely grow enough to outpace future growth in consumption and create adequate spare capacity .
An IMF spokesman would not comment on the article .
Another news report ( from the Associated Press ) says France will urge the United States and other wealthy nations to boost investments in oil refining and alternative energy .
The Bloomberg financial news service also reports that top EU and OPEC officials have agreed to meet in November to discuss investments in energy production .
South African police say they have arrested four men in the capital , Pretoria , for attempting to sell what they describe as an industrial nuclear device to undercover officers .
The men - all South Africans - were arrested Friday at a Pretoria gas station , where they attempted to sell the device for about $ 6 million .
Police say Interpol was also involved in the operation .
They did not say where the device came from or for what industrial purpose it is used , but did say it contained radioactive material .
The officials say the four will appear in court soon to face charges of possession of a radioactive device , as well as health code violations for handling radioactive material in public .
The death toll from a powerful car bomb in Thailand has risen to six , with at least 40 others injured , some seriously .
Police say the explosion Thursday occurred outside a hotel in the bar district of Sungai Kolok , a town on the Malaysian border frequented by tourists .
The Narathiwat provincial governor , Pracha Tehrat , said the explosive was unlike others used in the region .
Earlier bombs have been smaller , often attached to motorcycles .
There has been no claim of responsibility for Thursday 's attack , which is believed to be the first car bombing during an ongoing separatist uprising .
Hours before the attack , Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra toured the southern provinces and vowed to end separatist violence by cutting off development funding to villages supporting the insurgents .
But locals say the plan could backfire by encouraging more support for rebels .
A suicide bomber in the Iraqi town of Tikrit detonated his truck outside a police station Sunday , killing at least five people and wounding more than a dozen others .
In Baghdad , at least five Iraqis , including soldiers and government workers , were killed in two drive-by shootings .
To the south , witnesses in Samawah say hundreds of townspeople protesting poor public services clashed with police .
At least one person was killed and more than 40 others injured in the melee .
The violence comes as Iraqi political leaders prepare for talks later today on ways to break a deadlock on a new draft constitution .
With a deadline just eight days away , Shi'ite , Sunni and Kurdish delegates remain deeply divided over several key issues , including the role of religion and a description of national identity in post-war Iraq .
Last weekend the leading rebel group in Sudan , Justice and Equality Movement or JEM launched a surprise attack on the Sudanese cities of Omdurman and Khartoum .
The government was able to repel the attack .
The head of strategic planning for JEM said the attack was successful .
Peter Eichstaedt is Africa editor for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting .
VOA ’s Akwei Thompson reached him by phone at his base in The Hague for an analysis of the attack .
Eichstaedt said the most dramatic part of the story is not who won the battle , but rather the fact that the “ rebels were able to conduct a surprise strike ” at the capital Sudan .
“ This has literally burst the bubble , the security bubble of the Sudan government ” , he added .
Eichstaedt said both the UN and the Sudan government should be very concerned about what happened last week .
An Amsterdam court has opened pre-trial hearings into the case of a Dutch-Moroccan man suspected in last year 's murder of prominent filmmaker Theo van Gogh .
The accused , Mohammed Bouyeri , was not present in court for the hearing .
Prosecutors say he shot the filmmaker several times last November while he was bicycling to work in Amsterdam , stabbed him , then left a letter pinned to his body with a knife .
They believe the attack was a response to the filmmaker 's criticism of Islam and its treatment of women .
The defendant is also charged with attempted murder , terrorism and threatening a politician .
Some of the charges involve the accused 's threats against Somali-born Dutch lawmaker Ayaan Hirsi Ali who wrote the script for Mr. van Gogh 's film .
The van Gogh murder sparked sectarian attacks against mosques , religious schools and churches in the Netherlands .
Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga has taken the oath of office as part of a new power-sharing Cabinet formed after a deadly post-election crisis .
Mr. Odinga was sworn in Thursday in front of President Mwai Kibaki and former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
Mr. Annan brokered the agreement between Mr. Kibaki and Mr. Odinga , and has urged Kenyans to support the newly-appointed coalition government .
The new minister for medical services Peter Anyang Nyongo tells VOA the Cabinet has already begun working together to help the country recover from the post-election crisis , particularly the problem of internally displaced people .
President Kibaki announced the power-sharing Cabinet Sunday .
The move ended a deadlock that threatened to re-ignite weeks of deadly violence triggered by a dispute over December 's presidential vote , which the opposition says was rigged .
The U.S. military says an American soldier has been charged with killing two other U.S. servicemen in the Iraqi city of Fallujah .
In a statement released Wednesday , the military said Neftaly Platero has also been charged with one count of attempted murder .
He is accused of shooting three soldiers after an argument last month .
The military says the shootings were premeditated , and that it is continuing to investigate the incident .
Platero will be tried in a military court .
A tornado in the midwestern U.S. state of Indiana has killed at least 22 people and injured over 200 others .
Witnesses say the tornado formed along a line of thunderstorms and touched down in Henderson , Kentucky , early Sunday morning .
It then skipped across the state border to rip through several Indiana communities .
Twelve of the victims were killed at a mobile home park in the city of Evansville , Indiana .
Although warnings were issued before the twister , many people were asleep and did not hear them .
Officials say the tornado left a path of damage more than 30 kilometers long and more than one kilometer wide .
It reduced houses to rubble , scattering debris across the countryside , and stripping foliage off of trees .
The commander of U.S. military forces in South Korea says Washington and Seoul can defeat any North Korean attack .
In a radio interview Wednesday , General Leon LaPorte says he believes Pyongyang has one or two nuclear weapons , but insists the combined U.S. and South Korean forces would win no matter how many nuclear weapons North Korea possesses .
North Korea declared earlier this year that it possessed nuclear weapons and would not return to disarmament talks .
But Tuesday Russia 's Interfax news agency quoted an unnamed North Korean official as saying that the stalled negotiations could possibly resume in the second half of next month .
South Korea 's Unification Minister , Chung Dong-young , is to meet with senior U.S. officials about his recent meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong-il later this week .
The U.S. ambassador to the Vatican has voiced support for the Catholic Church 's push for more religious freedoms in China , saying Beijing should cooperate more openly with the Holy See .
Ambassador Francis Rooney said he is supporting the Church 's mission to secure greater liberties for Catholics in China .
The announcement follows President Bush 's trip to China , where he urged Beijing to allow greater " social , political and religious freedoms . "
Pope Benedict has said he is interested re-establishing diplomatic ties with China , which were severed in 1951 .
But tensions escalated between the two sides in October , when Chinese officials refused to allow local bishops to travel to a Church gathering in Rome .
The Indonesian government says it will begin withdrawing troops from Aceh province in September , following a tentative peace agreement that would end the region 's nearly 30-year separatist conflict .
Jakarta 's announcement came Wednesday , not long after a spokesman for the rebel Free Aceh Movement said at least 10 people have been killed in fighting since the peace agreement on Sunday .
The reported death toll includes five guerrillas , three soldiers and two civilians .
An Indonesian military spokesman blames the rebels for the continued violence .
After peace talks in Helsinki , Finland , the government and rebel negotiators pledged to sign an accord August 15 to end the conflict that has killed tens of thousands of people , mostly civilians .
Hundreds of opposition supporters and activists cheered Saturday as Pakistani opposition leader Javed Hashmi was released from prison .
Hashmi is the president of the Pakistan Muslim League of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif 's .
He was jailed four years ago after criticizing the country 's military .
Upon his release , Hashmi told reporters that his fight was for the restoration of democracy .
The Pakistan Supreme Court ruled Friday that he be released on bail pending the appeal of his conviction .
The Supreme Court ruling was made by Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry , who recently won a highly publicized court victory overturning his own suspension by General Musharraf .
Hashmi was sentenced to 23 years in prison after being convicted on treason charges for circulating an unsigned letter criticizing Pakistan 's army .
Report says consequences to human health from environmental degradation will grow significantly worse in next 50 years
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) says the decline of the global ecosystem poses a serious threat to human health .
In a WHO report published Friday , scientists warn that pressures on the environment could have unpredictable and potentially severe impacts on health .
It says more than one billion people lack access to safe water supplies , while more than two billion lack adequate sanitation , due in part to ecosystem depletion and contamination .
The report says consequences to human health from environmental degradation will grow significantly worse in the next 50 years .
The report says poor populations dependent on natural ecosystems for basic needs face the greatest risk of health problems .
Regions of concern include sub-Saharan Africa , Central Asia , parts of Latin America , and areas in South and Southeast Asia .
Egyptian officials say the ruling National Democratic Party has won about 70 percent of seats at stake in the first round of parliamentary voting .
Justice Minister Mahmoud Abu el-Leil says the ruling party claimed 112 seats , and the banned Muslim Brotherhood won 34 seats , more than doubling its presence .
He said independent groups won 13 seats , and opposition candidates took five others .
Election monitors have said the vote earlier this month was marred by violence , vote buying and voter registration fraud .
Egypt is to hold a second round of voting Sunday , and the third and final stage on December first .
The ruling party is expected to retain control over the 454-member parliament , where it holds 90 percent of the seats .
Officials in Afghanistan say two roadside bombings have killed eight civilians in southern Kandahar province .
Six more people were wounded in the blasts near the town of Spin Boldak .
Wednesday , Afghan officials said at least seven people were killed when security forces raided a Kabul hideout housing militants involved in an attack on President Hamid Karzai .
Afghan intelligence chief Amrullah Saleh said at least one of the dead militants directly participated in Sunday 's attack on the president during a military parade in Kabul .
Mr. Karzai escaped unharmed .
The intelligence chief also said there is evidence that militants based in Pakistan 's tribal region planned the assassination attempt .
But Saleh said he had no proof the Pakistani government was involved .
Saleh told Afghanistan 's Parliament Tuesday he knew of the plot to murder President Karzai and had warned the Afghan leader and his security advisor .
Europe 's top security organization says it will have an observer mission in Kyrgyzstan to monitor the July 10 presidential election .
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , the OSCE , says it will " assess the entire election process " in terms of its compliance with international standards for democratic elections .
The OSCE mission consists of 15 election experts based in Bishkek and 26 long-term observers deployed to various regions of Kyrgyzstan .
About 300 short-term observers will join the mission just before the polls .
The OSCE move follows allegations of official abuses during the Kyrgyz parliamentary polls earlier this year which triggered public protests that ousted the unpopular government in March .
The presidential election is seen as a major democracy test for the new Kyrgyz leadership .
The Chinese city of Tianjin has ordered 40 factories to close for nearly two months in an effort to cut air pollution for the Beijing Olympics .
Tianjin , a port city about 150 kilometers southeast of Beijing , will host some of the Olympic soccer matches .
The city ordered the factories to close from July 25 through September 20 .
The city has also banned work on major construction sites during the same period .
Beijing has taken similar efforts to improve air quality , including an " even-odd " system based on license plates which aims to take half the city 's cars off the roads ahead of the Games .
The U.S. State Department has issued a new warning for U.S. citizens considering travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories .
In a statement Friday , the State Department said the fresh warning supersedes a previous travel alert for the region issued in January .
It cited " considerable violence " in recent months between Palestinian factions , as well as between Israeli security forces and armed Palestinian groups .
It urged U.S. citizens to be mindful of security when traveling to Israel and Jerusalem .
The statement recommended that all Americans , including journalists and aid workers , defer travel to the West Bank and avoid any travel in the Gaza Strip .
The head of Iran 's atomic energy agency has proposed building nuclear power plants jointly with neighboring Arab countries .
Gholam Reza Aghazadeh did not give any specifics about his proposal Sunday for the development of light-water nuclear plants .
Iran is building its first nuclear power plant with Russia 's help .
Iran says it is developing nuclear power , not weapons .
But Western nations are concerned Tehran 's intentions are militaristic .
The U.N. Security Council has imposed sanctions on Iran to try to stop it from enriching uranium .
Tehran says it wants to produce low-grade fuel for peaceful nuclear power plants .
But the same process could be used to enrich uranium to a higher grade for nuclear weapons .
A recent International Atomic Energy Agency report says Iran is defying U.N. sanctions and has stopped providing substantial information to the U.N. nuclear agency about its activities .
Director of Greek shipping firm Alloceans Shipping says pirates freed the ' Ariana ' and its crew members after the company paid a ransom .
Somali pirates have released a Greek-owned cargo ship and its 24 Ukrainian crew members after seven months in captivity .
The director of Greek shipping firm Alloceans Shipping , Spyros Minas , says pirates freed the Ariana Thursday , after the company paid a ransom .
In Kiev , Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko also announced the crew 's release .
The shipping company did not reveal the size of the ransom , but pirates told reporters the amount was more than $ 2.5 million .
Pirates have continued to hijack vessels despite the presence of foreign naval patrols near Somalia .
They are still believed to be holding around 260 crew members on nearly a dozen captured ships .
Continental Airlines says soaring prices for jet fuel are forcing it to slash 3,000 jobs from its 45,000-person workforce , retire some old , inefficient planes , and cut flights .
Thursday 's announcement by Continental follows similar drastic actions by rival carriers Delta , United , and American .
Continental officials say fuel prices are up 75 percent in a year , fundamentally " shifting the economics " of the business .
Top Continental executives will not take their salaries for the rest of this year , and will forgo bonuses .
The carrier will cut 67 older model planes from its fleet of 375 planes , and replace some of them with newer , more fuel-efficient aircraft .
Witnesses say Palestinian gunmen have freed two Western teachers kidnapped early Wednesday in the Gaza Strip as part of a push to gain the release of several jailed militants .
The teachers , abducted as they drove to work in Gaza City , were reported safe hours later at the headquarters of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
Details of the release were not clear .
Gunmen from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine had claimed responsibility , in a statement demanding the release of jailed PFLP chief Ahmed Saadat .
He and several others in the group remain under foreign supervision in a Palestinian prison for their role in the 2001 assassination of Israeli Cabinet minister Rehavam Zeevi .
A former Egyptian militant says Iran has secretly handed over to Cairo the alleged mastermind of a failed 1995 assassination attempt on Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
Hani el-Sibaie , who now runs an Islamic center in London , said he has been told that Iran returned militant Moustafa Hamza to Egypt in October .
The fugitive is facing three deaths sentences imposed by Cairo since 1992 in absentia .
Neither Egypt nor Iran has publicly commented on Sunday 's reports .
Hamza 's group renounced violence in 1997 and two years later ended all attacks inside and outside of Egypt .
He has lived abroad for years .
The African Union says Sudan 's government is starting to withdraw troops from Darfur , heeding an A.U. demand to end fighting by Saturday .
An A.U. spokesman says he hopes the pullback will allow Sudan 's government and rebels to resume stalled peace talks in Nigeria .
Rebels have refused to participate in the talks until the government stops attacks in Darfur .
Friday , the African Union gave both the Sudanese government and rebels a 24-hour ultimatum to respect a cease-fire .
It said after the deadline passes , it will report any violations to the U.N. Security Council .
The ultimatum followed a report by the commander of the A.U. 's observer force in Darfur which said Sudan 's government appears to be preparing a major military offensive in the region .
The report also detailed violations by rebel forces .
Afghan authorities say U.S-led coalition forces have arrested five suspected Taleban insurgents in connection with an attack on a oil tanker that killed two Pakistanis .
Police in the Afghan border town of Spin Boldak said the five suspects were apprehended Wednesday - a day after the two Pakistani nationals were killed in the same area .
The victims were ambushed after the Pakistani-owned tanker delivered fuel to a U.S. base in southern Afghanistan .
Taleban and allied militants have stepped up attacks in recent months , often hitting soft targets associated with coalition forces and the Afghan government of President Hamid Karzai .
Some 200 Palestinian women have marched to demand the release of Hamas supporters from jails in the West Bank .
Protesters wearing veils and chanting " God is great " gathered Saturday in the West Bank city of Ramallah .
They included wives , mothers and daughters of imprisoned Hamas supporters .
Scuffles broke out when police tried to block the women from gathering in Ramallah 's main square .
At least one of the protesters was detained .
Security forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas have arrested scores of Hamas supporters in the West Bank since Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip by force in June .
Mr. Abbas heads the Fatah faction , which is a fierce rival of Hamas .
Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has confirmed that two Algerian diplomats in Iraq have been killed by their kidnappers .
The president issued a statement Wednesday calling the murders a " cowardly " act .
He did not say what evidence the government has that proves Algerian mission chief Ali Belaroussi and attaché Azzedine Belkadi have been killed .
Earlier Wednesday , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terrorist group , al-Qaida in Iraq , said in an Internet statement that it had killed the two diplomats , who were abducted last Thursday in Baghdad .
No videotape or pictures of the alleged killings accompanied the statement .
In New York , United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan condemned the killings as " brutal and barbaric , " and he said every effort must be made to bring the killers to justice .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has warned China not to use legitimate security concerns as an excuse to crack down on dissidents .
At a joint news conference with New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark in Auckland Saturday , Rice said China should showcase not just the Olympics , but an attitude of openness and tolerance .
Neither Rice nor the prime minister expressed any concerns about the safety of U.S. or New Zealand athletes .
Global intelligence analysts Stratfor and Intelcenter said Friday that a Uighur separatist group , the Turkestan Islamic Party , has claimed credit for several attacks , including the May 5 Shanghai bus bombing that killed two people .
The Internet intelligence analysts said the Islamic group threatened further attacks on Chinese cities that will host Olympic games .
The Turkestan Islamic Party is an ethnic Uighur and Muslim group seeking to create an independent state out of China 's westernmost , heavily Muslim Xinjiang province .
The Afghan intelligence agency says officials have arrested 17 would-be suicide bombers who allegedly trained in Pakistan .
A spokesman for the intelligence agency says security agents detained the suspects before they had a chance to strike targets in Afghanistan .
He says the detainees told authorities they had attended militant training camps in neighboring Pakistan .
The Afghan spokesman says militants in Pakistan encourage fighters to carry out suicide attacks by telling them Islam is in danger in Afghanistan .
Pakistani and Afghan authorities have accused each other of not doing enough to combat the Taleban-led insurgency in Afghanistan .
While football players around the world are preparing for the 2006 World Cup in Germany , so are the referees who will oversee the games .
FIFA , the sport 's world governing body , says referees designated for the World Cup finals will start their build-up to the tournament 16 months before the opening kick-off .
A total of 46 international referees will attend the first workshop in Frankfurt between February 12 and 16 .
They will be subjected to a medical check-up and theoretical and practical training sessions while working on their physical fitness .
The final list of World Cup referees will be announced early next year .
FIFA president Sepp Blatter says the unique program will help identify , train and prepare the best match officials .
Russia is sending doctors and medical supplies to Chile , as part of relief efforts to help Chileans recover from last month 's devastating earthquake and a series of strong aftershocks .
A Russian official says two planes are being sent to Chile , carrying physicians , medicine and a mobile hospital .
Parts of Chile shook Thursday after getting hit by a magnitude 6.9 aftershock .
The U.S. Geological Survey said the aftershock was centered in Chile 's Libertador O'Higgins region , about 145 kilometers southwest of the capital , Santiago .
The shaking was felt by foreign dignitaries who had gathered in the city of Valparaiso for the inauguration of new Chilean President Sebastian Pinera .
It was one of the strongest aftershocks to strike Chile since an 8.8-magnitude earthquake in late February killed about 500 people .
Kenya 's President Mwai Kibaki says he will take decisive action within days in the multi-million-dollar corruption scandals rocking his government .
His pledge Thursday came after Kenya 's former anti-corruption chief told British television that he came under high-level pressure in 2004 to abandon a fraud investigation .
The BBC played excerpts of a tape John Githongo says he recorded when Kenya 's then-Justice Minister Kiraitu Murungi pressed him to give up the probe .
Githongo , who left Kenya last year , has linked Murungi and other top Kenyan officials to a massive corruption scandal , known as the " Anglo-Leasing " affair that diverted more than $ 200 million from the government .
Murungi and the other officials deny any wrongdoing .
However , Kenyan anti-corruption activists say they will post the names and pictures of the accused officials in public places to maintain pressure on Mr. Kibaki .
Iranian health officials have begun slaughtering thousands of birds along the country 's border with Turkey , in an attempt to prevent the spread of avian flu .
The move reported Saturday comes as the disease continues to spread in Turkey .
Three children died of bird flu there last week , and 15 more people have been diagnosed with the disease .
In Ankara , government ministers and representatives of the poultry industry are discussing how to minimize the economic effects of the bird flu outbreak .
Industry experts say poultry sales in the country have dropped by 70 percent since the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu was reported in humans in Turkey late last month - the first bird flu deaths outside Asia .
Meanwhile , Belgian health officials said a Russian journalist hospitalized in Brussels for suspected bird flu has been tested and shows no sign of the disease .
Upjohn Co. said it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge .
Upjohn officials said they could n't estimate the size of the charge until they determine which employees , and how many , will participate in the retirement plan .
But the pharmaceutical company said it " anticipates the long-term savings resulting from the plan 's implementation will more than offset short-term costs . "
The program , available to Upjohn employees 55 years old or older , could increase an individual 's retirement benefits 10 % to 20 % .
In addition , Upjohn is offering a one-time retirement bonus equal to six months of base pay .
Chairman Theodore Cooper called the program part of the company 's two-year strategy to implement budget constraints and " an effective headcount-control program . "
But some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have , because few jobs will end up being eliminated .
" It 's a cosmetic move , " said Jonathan S. Gelles of Wertheim Schroder & Co .
According to Upjohn 's estimates , only 50 % to 60 % of the 1,100 eligible employees will take advantage of the plan .
Upjohn further estimated that about 50 % of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced .
As a result , Upjohn will likely trim only about 275 to 350 of its more than 21,000 jobs world-wide .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Upjohn shares rose 87.5 cents to $ 38.875 apiece .
An Upjohn spokesman said he had " heard nothing " to suggest the early retirement package was spurred by shareholder pressure or a potential bidder for the company , which occasionally has been the target of takeover speculation .
The company earlier this year adopted a shareholder-rights plan to ward off unwanted suitors .
The spokesman said it is the first early retirement plan offered under its two-year cost-control strategy .
Earlier staff-reduction moves have trimmed about 300 jobs , the spokesman said .
Iran has again rejected calls to end its nuclear fuel cycle work , despite fresh European threats to bring United Nations sanctions .
A Foreign Ministry spokesman Sunday repeated Tehran 's claim that its uranium conversion work is aimed at generating electricity rather than atomic weaponry .
He said Iran will not yield to threats from Western governments .
Iran resumed uranium conversion at its plant in Isfahan last month , rejecting European incentives aimed at ending Tehran 's nuclear activities .
Thursday , the European Union said it would ask the International Atomic Energy Agency to seek U.N. sanctions at an IAEA board meeting September 19 in Vienna .
On Friday , an IAEA report said Iran has failed to answer key questions about its work with uranium and plutonium - two key materials needed for an atomic bomb .
Canada has assumed the presidency of the Group of Eight industrialized nations for 2010 , a year that will see the country play a much larger role on the international stage .
Prime Minister Stephen Harper will host the leaders of the world 's major economic powers in Ontario in June for an annual summit expected to focus on free trade , democracy and human rights .
Canada takes over the presidency from Italy , which presided over debates in 2009 on food security , as well as the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea .
The G8 includes the United States , Japan , Germany , France , Britain , Italy , Canada and Russia .
Canada will also chair this year 's Group of 20 developed and developing nations , and host the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver .
Iraqi officials say insurgents ambushed an Egyptian-owned telephone company 's convoy in Baghdad Wednesday , killing at least six security guards and possibly abducting two foreign engineers .
Officials say the engineers from Malawi and Madagascar are missing and feared kidnapped .
Meanwhile , kidnappers freed the sister of Iraq 's interior minister , Shi'ite politician Bayan Jabr , two weeks after she was abducted in Baghdad .
On Tuesday , Iraqi insurgents released a videotape of kidnapped American journalist Jill Carroll , who works for the Christian Science Monitor , saying they would kill her unless female prisoners in Iraq are released within 72 hours .
And Iran said it is looking into Iraqi allegations of a clash between Iraqi and Iranian coastguard forces in the Persian Gulf .
Basra 's governor said Tuesday that nine Iraqi coast guard sailors were kidnapped and one killed in a skirmish with Iranian forces .
The opposition in Azerbaijan is calling for protests over the shooting death of an editor of a magazine critical of the government .
Popular Front leader Ali Kerimli urged the demonstrations in response to Wednesday 's fatal attack on Elmar Husseinov of the weekly Monitor .
No suspects have been identified .
President Ilham Aliyev ordered a swift investigation and called the attack a serious provocation against the state and authority .
The slain journalist had come under government scrutiny and had previously been jailed and fined for his work .
The Committee to Protect Journalists said the killing appeared to have been well planned and orchestrated - while the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders called it part of a campaign of violence against journalists in Azerbaijan .
Also , the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe expressed shock at the attack and said it expects a swift investigation .
Two American journalists have been reunited with their families after being released from detention in North Korea .
The two were freed after a diplomatic trip to Pyongyang by former president Bill Clinton .
In an interview with VOA Senior Correspondent André de Nesnera , former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton talks about Bill Clinton ’s trip and the issue of North Korea’s nuclear ambitions .
A senior Chinese official says the current dispute with U.S.-based Internet giant Google should not be " over-interpreted " as a sign of Beijing 's relationship with Washington .
State-run Xinhua news agency says Vice Foreign Minister He Yafei made the remarks Thursday in Beijing .
Google announced last week that may end its operations in China due to censorship concerns , and a cyber attack targeting the Google-based e-mail accounts of Chinese human rights activists .
China says it does not condone cyber attacks , but added that all foreign companies , including Google , must comply with all local laws , regulations and customs , including government controls over the Internet .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will unveil the the Obama administration 's policies towards Internet freedom during a speech Thursday in Washington .
A published report says the United States has ended its hunt for biological , chemical and nuclear weapons in Iraq , several months after inspectors concluded that Baghdad did not possess banned weapons at the time of the U.S.-led invasion .
The Washington Post reports Wednesday that chief U.S. weapons inspector Charles Duelfer wrapped up his work in Iraq last month .
The newspaper quotes unnamed intelligence officials as saying the hunt was called off because of a lack of new information and the ongoing violence in Iraq .
One official said there will not be any substantial changes to Mr. Duelfer 's final report , which was presented to Congress last September .
The report concluded that former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein did not posses illicit weapons prior to the 2002 invasion .
President Bush cited Iraq 's alleged stockpiles of banned weapons as a key reason for going to war .
A LION came across a Hare , who was fast asleep .
He was just in the act of seizing her , when a fine young Hart trotted by , and he left the Hare to follow him .
The Hare , scared by the noise , awoke and scudded away .
The Lion was unable after a long chase to catch the Hart , and returned to feed upon the Hare .
On finding that the Hare also had run off , he said , " I am rightly served , for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for the chance of obtaining more . "
A U.S. federal judge has ruled that military tribunals for prisoners at the U.S. base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , are unconstitutional .
In a setback for the Bush administration , a U.S. district judge in Washington D.C. also ruled that the Guantanamo detainees have constitutional protections under the law .
An attorney for the Bush administration had asked the judge to throw out the prisoners ' challenges , saying their fate should be left to the military .
The military tribunals have been criticized by human rights groups as fundamentally unfair to defendants .
Monday 's ruling will probably not final .
Several lawsuits by Guantanamo prisoners could go to U.S. appeals courts and then to the Supreme Court .
More than 540 terrorism suspects are being held as enemy combatants at the U.S. naval base .
Most of them were captured in Afghanistan or Pakistan during the 2001 U.S.-led invasion to oust the Taleban .
Sri Lankan government supporters clashed with opposition activists protesting the arrest of their defeated presidential candidate Sarath Fonseka .
Thousands of opposition demonstrators gathered in front of the Supreme Court in Colombo Wednesday , when they were confronted by ruling-party activists who pelted them with stones .
Police stepped in to break up the clashes .
Witnesses say several people were wounded .
Opposition supporters are demanding the release of Fonseka , the former chief of the armed forces , who was arrested Monday on charges of conspiring against the government .
Fonseka lost last month 's election to President Mahinda Rajapaksa , but the retired general and his allies allege the polls were rigged .
The Sri Lankan election commissioner said there is no evidence of any tampering .
On Tuesday , Mr. Rajapaksa dissolved parliament to clear the way for parliamentary elections to be held in early April .
Polish President Lech Kaczynski has called the roof collapse at an exhibition hall the worst tragedy to strike post-communist Poland .
Sixty-six people were killed and at least 141 others injured when the roof of an exhibition hall in the city of Katowice caved in Saturday evening .
The hall was hosting a pigeon racing exhibition and a number of foreigners are among the victims .
President Kaczynski declared three days of mourning and has canceled Monday 's scheduled visit to the Czech Republic .
Pope Benedict and Russian President Vladimir Putin have sent messages of condolences .
Polish authorities say they do not expect to find any more survivors in the wreckage .
They say heavy snow piled on the roof may have contributed to the collapse .
Human Rights Watch has expressed concerns that Iraq 's war crimes tribunals will be flawed , unfair and lacking in credibility .
The New York-based organization said Friday that the tribunal has serious human rights shortcomings , and that the Iraqi government will need to change the process to make sure the trials are fair .
Among its recommendations are that Iraq enlist international legal experts , inform defendants of their rights and allow them to be questioned in the presence of their lawyers .
Investigative hearings for some of Saddam Hussein 's top lieutenants are expected to begin next week .
Charges against them include participating in crimes against Iraqi Kurds and Shi'ites .
On Thursday , Saddam met with his attorney for the first time since his capture more than a year ago .
The US Gulf Coast city of New Orleans escaped a major disaster this week when Hurricane Gustav hit shore some 110 kilometers southwest of the legendary city .
Three years ago , New Orleans was devastated by Hurricane Katrina .
VOA 's Barry Wood reports the city is cleaning up from a storm that could have been much worse .
Iran says it has postponed further talks with Russia about a proposal to process uranium on Russian soil for use in Iran 's nuclear plants .
Government spokesman Gholamhossein Elham told reporters in Tehran Monday the two sides will not meet late this week , as scheduled , but that a mutually convenient date will be set later .
Russia has been pushing for the plan as a way to ease international concerns that Iran might be aiming to produce weapons-grade uranium .
Iran says its nuclear program is only intended to generate electricity .
Speaking on Sunday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said a coalition of countries , including all members of the United Nations Security Council , are determined to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons .
Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader is set to begin five days of talks with the public in the British city of Nottingham .
The Dalai Lama says the focus of the conference is to explain Buddhist spiritual values and help teach people how to lead a happy life .
He says the talks are designed to help everyone , including members of other faiths and atheists .
He also plans to talk about environmental matters .
The Dalai Lama arrived in Nottingham Friday after meeting with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown at London 's Lambeth Palace .
Mr. Brown pledged to work for reconciliation between China and the people of Tibet .
China Saturday criticized the meeting , saying Britain is interfering in China 's internal affairs .
The Tibetan leader Thursday told British lawmakers their country is not doing enough to support Tibetans he says face " cultural genocide " at the hands of the Chinese .
The Israeli army says it is investigating allegations that soldiers used Palestinian civilians as human shields during recent operations in the West Bank town of Nablus .
The army issued a statement Friday , saying it has ordered " an official " investigation into the alleged misuse of civilians by soldiers .
The Israeli human rights group B'Tselem says Israeli soldiers , in at least two incidents , forced civilians to lead them in house-to-house searches for wanted militants .
Israeli law bans the military from using human shields .
The Israeli army carried out a five-day raid into Nablus that ended two weeks ago .
During the incursion , soldiers shot dead one Palestinian and detained more than 10 suspected militants .
Chinese paramilitary officer gestures outside of the Japanese embassy in Beijing , the scene of violent protests China has offered to repair damage the Japanese embassy in Beijing sustained during recent violent protests , but is rejecting Tokyo 's demand for an apology .
Beijing says Japan is to blame for starting the dispute , which centers on a new Japanese history textbook critics say overlooks Japan 's brutal military occupation of much of Asia before and during World War II .
Approval of the book sparked three weeks of angry protests in China .
Tokyo has proposed a meeting between Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and Chinese President Hu Jintao at the upcoming Asia-Africa summit in Indonesia .
UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has also urged the two leaders to meet and resolve their differences .
U.S. President Barack Obama turned 48 Tuesday and is spending at least part of his birthday with Democratic senators .
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs told reporters he is unsure of any specific birthday plans the president has made , but did say Mr. Obama and Vice President Joe Biden are meeting with Democratic senators for lunch to discuss health care and economic issues .
Gibbs says the president spent time with friends over the weekend at the Camp David presidential retreat outside Washington .
He says the president played basketball , had dinner and went bowling .
Gibbs says he will have more information later Tuesday on how the president planned to observe his birthday .
Medical researchers say a simple decision by expectant mothers can mean the difference between life and death for thousands of people .
Blood from umbilical cords has been used in life-saving transplants for people suffering from diseases such as leukemia .
But cord blood is in short supply .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has the story .
Brazil 's Foreign Ministry says deposed Ecuadorean President Lucio Gutierrez is expected to leave Ecuador Sunday for exile in Brazil .
Officials said Saturday a Brazilian air force passenger jet is expected to head for Quito within hours .
Mr. Gutierrez has been at the Brazilian ambassador 's residence since his ouster on Wednesday .
Earlier , Brazil said it was waiting for the right security conditions to fly Mr. Gutierrez out of Ecuador .
Angry protesters have camped outside the residence to demand he face justice .
A prosecutor has called for the deposed president 's arrest for the deaths of two people killed during recent violent protests .
Ecuador 's political crisis began in December , when lawmakers dismissed 27 of the 31 Supreme Court justices after Mr. Gutierrez accused them of bias against him .
The World Health Organization says that while there have already been three deaths from bird flu in China this year , there are no signs the deadly disease is becoming a bigger problem .
In a statement Wednesday , the WHO 's top representative in China , Hans Troedsson , says the three recent cases were not unexpected considering the winter season .
Bird flu tends to be more active during the colder months of the year .
Troedsson also stressed that all three cases involved people who contracted the disease from poultry , not from human to human transmissions .
China has the world 's largest poultry population and is at the center of the fight against bird flu , which scientists fear could mutate into a form that could pass easily between people , sparking a pandemic .
The World Health Organization says China has had 20 bird flu deaths and 30 cases since the outbreak began in 2003 .
The U.S. dollar declined in value compared to other major currencies Tuesday .
At one point , the dollar bought a bit more than 104 yen and it took just over $ 1.32 to buy a euro .
The drop followed reports that South Korea plans to switch more of its reserves from dollars to other currencies .
South Korea has the world 's fourth largest currency reserves , and they have traditionally been held largely in dollar-denominated investments .
Some analysts say they are watching central banks in Europe and the Middle East to see if they take similar action , which would further reduce demand for the dollar and weaken its value .
An official at the Chinese embassy in Jakarta says Beijing is " astonished and strongly dissatisfied " after gunfire from an Indonesian warship killed a Chinese fisherman and wounded two others .
The China Daily Thursday quotes the official , Yu Hongyao , as saying China expects to be informed of any developments in the incident , which took place Monday in the Arafura Sea off eastern Indonesia .
The Indonesian navy intercepted four Chinese boats believed to be fishing illegally .
Indonesian navy officials say three of the boats fled and the warship fired shots when the fourth boat did not respond to radio and visual signals .
The damaged fishing boat and its remaining 13 crew members are being held at an Indonesian naval base in the Papua coastal town of Merauke .
Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir has arrived in Libya for talks on Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
Sudan 's official news agency , SUNA , says the president will meet with Darfur rebels who refused to endorse a peace deal signed last year .
The discussions this week also will be attended by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi and Eritrean President Isaias Afewerki .
Last year , Sudan 's government and the largest Darfur rebel group signed a landmark peace deal .
Some other rebel groups rejected the deal , saying it does not meet their demands for power- and wealth-sharing .
Four years of fighting in Darfur has killed at least 200,000 people and driven more than two million others from their homes .
President Bashir has resisted the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers to Darfur to support a 7,000-strong African Union mission .
The Israeli army says it carried out two airstrikes in Gaza late Monday , both aimed at houses belonging to militants .
The first was aimed at a home in the Jabalya refugee camp , and the second hit a house in the Beit Hanoun district of Northern Gaza .
In both cases residents of the houses were warned in advance .
Earlier , Palestinian hospital officials said an Israeli military strike in northern Gaza killed three Palestinians , including a teenage boy .
Israel 's military says it targeted Palestinian militants in the area after they fired two rockets at the Israeli city of Ashkelon .
Meanwhile , the U.S. television network , Fox , says two of its employees were kidnapped by Palestinian gunmen in the Gaza Strip Monday .
Witnesses say American correspondent Steve Centanni and cameraman Olaf Wiig from New Zealand were taken away by gunmen after their car was intercepted in Gaza City .
Nigerian government officials say former Liberian leader and war crimes suspect Charles Taylor has disappeared from the house where he was living in exile in Nigeria .
They say Taylor left his villa in the southern town of Calabar Monday night .
His disappearance came just after the Nigerian government said they were willing to allow Liberia to arrest Taylor .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal for Sierra Leone had asked for his arrest on charges of rape and torture related to his rule in Liberia and a civil war in neighboring Sierra Leone .
Venezuelan police have arrested two brothers in connection with the killing of a top government prosecutor .
Officials said Friday , Rolando and Otoniel Guevara were arrested west of the capital city of Caracas .
Their arrest comes the same week that police shot and killed two other suspects in the prosecutor 's murder .
Prosecutor Danilo Anderson died when explosions ripped through his car as he drove through the Venezuelan capital .
Officials have said the attack may have been politically-motivated .
Mr. Anderson had been overseeing a case against hundreds of opposition politicians , businessmen and former military officers involved in a 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
Two former Caracas police chiefs who were being investigated by Mr. Anderson sought asylum Friday at El Salvador 's embassy in Caracas .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says he is very satisfied with measures taken by Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to halt militant violence .
In an interview published Thursday in an Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot , Mr. Sharon said there is no doubt the Palestinian leader has begun to work toward reducing militant attacks against Israelis .
Mr. Sharon added that he wants to move forward with peace efforts .
Meanwhile , Israeli and Palestinian officials have begun preparations for the first summit between Mr. Sharon and Mr. Abbas .
Authorities say officials will meet next week to plan details of the summit , which Israel says could take place within two weeks .
U.S. President Barack Obama is using his weekly address Saturday to lead America in honoring the country 's fallen military personnel for the Memorial Day holiday .
Mr. Obama called on Americans to pay tribute to fallen veterans with more than words .
The comments come ahead of Memorial Day , a national holiday that takes place on the last Monday of May each year .
Mr. Obama says Americans should make sure that members of armed forces have all the support they need , and that military veterans receive appropriate care and assistance .
The president summed up his address by saying Americans should serve everyone who has ever worn an American military uniform as well as they have served Americans .
Memorial Day also is the unofficial start of the summer season in the U.S.
Many Americans spend the day enjoying barbecues and other outdoor activities .
Cuban President Fidel Castro says the country 's economy is growing despite the U.S. government 's long-standing trade embargo against the island .
The Cuban leader said Monday in a May Day speech lasting more than three hours that the current rate of growth was at 12.5 percent .
Cuba , however , uses a calculation system that differs from the international standard .
As he spoke before hundreds of thousands of people gathered in Havana , Mr. Castro criticized the Bush administration for creating a transition plan for a post-Castro Cuba .
Additionally , he said the U.S. characterization of his country as a state sponsor of terrorism was cynical .
Last Friday , the State Department released a report which again listed Cuba and five other countries , Iran , Libya , North Korea , Sudan and Syria as state sponsors of terrorism , which are subject to sanctions under U.S. law .
The deputy leader of the Yemeni branch of al-Qaida has called for new attacks on U.S. interests .
Said al-Shihri made the threat in an audio message posted Monday on a website used by Islamic extremists .
He said attacks should be launched against American interests everywhere .
Al-Shihri accused Saudi Arabia and Egypt of , in his words , " preserving the interests of Jews and Christians " by providing them with oil and giving them access to waters surrounding the Arabian peninsula .
He also praised Nigerian Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab for his failed attempt to blow up a passenger jet over the U.S. city of Detroit on Christmas Day .
Abdulmutallab , who is in U.S. custody , has said he was trained by al-Qaida operatives in Yemen .
Al-Shihri is a former inmate at the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
At least 20 people have been killed in two attacks in Baghdad .
Iraqi authorities say insurgents stormed a police station in the western Amil district early Friday , killing six policemen .
Later in the day , 14 people were killed and 19 injured by a car bomb that exploded outside a mosque in the northern district of al-Adamiya .
The attacks were the latest by insurgents fighting the U.S. led coalition and security forces of the interim Iraqi government .
President Bush says Iraq should stick to plans to hold elections in January , despite calls by some Iraqi politicians for a delay until security improves .
On Thursday , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld acknowledged America failed to anticipate the strength of the Iraqi insurgency after the fall of Saddam Hussein .
South Korean state auditors questioned disgraced cloning scientist Hwang Woo-suk Friday about his possible misappropriation of state funds .
Hwang and his research team had received more than $ 45 million in state funding and private donations for research over the past decade .
The interrogation comes two days after prosecutors said Hwang had made false claims about creating patient-specific stem cells .
Hwang has already been questioned by a Seoul National University panel , which earlier this month said the veterinarian had fabricated results published in landmark 2004 and 2005 papers in the international journal Science .
Hwang has admitted to fraud in his papers , but says he was the victim of a conspiracy to discredit him .
He accuses junior scientists of deceiving him about research data .
American skier Daron Rahlves has won his third World Cup men 's downhill race of the season by beating Austrian Michael Walchhofer in Wengen , Switzerland .
Rahlves finished the 4,480 meter Lauberhorn course in two minutes , 30.54 seconds .
Walchhofer was second , 0.40 seconds behind .
Austrian teammate and 2002 Olympic champion Fritz Strobl finished third , 1.06 seconds behind the American .
Reigning World Cup overall champion Bode Miller of the United States finished 11th , nearly 2.5 seconds behind Rahlves .
Miller was supposed to start the race in the 27th slot but was dropped to 31st after he did not show up for a mandatory bib presentation ceremony Friday night .
Benjamin Raich of Austria retained the overall World Cup lead with 706 points .
Walchhofer is second 106 points back with Rahlves third ( 589 points ) .
British voters are casting ballots Thursday in local and regional elections widely seen as a referendum on Prime Minister Tony Blair 's decade in office .
Voters are choosing local councils in England and Scotland .
Voters in Scotland and Wales are also choosing members of their national legislatures .
In Scotland , the pro-independence Scottish National Party has promised to hold a referendum on independence from Britain if it gains power .
Many analysts predict Britain 's Labor Party will suffer significant losses Thursday , because of widespread opposition to Mr. Blair 's support for the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq , and discontent over several domestic scandals implicating the ruling party .
Mr. Blair is Labor 's longest-serving prime minister .
He has said he will make a definitive statement next week on when he plans to leave office .
The U.S. military in Iraq says 17 more bodies have been discovered in the northern city of Mosul .
U.S. and Iraqi officials say that in the past two weeks the bodies of more than 50 people , many of them shot execution-style , have been found in and near Mosul .
A U.S. military statement says 43 suspected insurgents have been taken into custody in the city since Saturday .
Elsewhere , police say a car bomb explosion in Samarra has killed at least three civilians and wounded several others .
In other developments , Iran has offered to train Iraqi border guards , as part of an effort to help Baghdad strengthen their 1,600-kilometer common border .
Deputy Interior Minister Ali Asghar Ahmadi also said Iran will host a meeting Tuesday of Arab interior ministers , aimed at finding ways to help Iraq quell the insurgency .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says a dispute with Colombia regarding the capture of a Colombian leftist rebel leader on Venezuelan soil is - quote - " practically over . "
President Chavez also said Tuesday he expects a meeting with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe Thursday in Caracas to be - in his words - " very fruitful . "
Venezuela 's ambassador to Colombia returned to Bogota Monday after being recalled during the dispute .
Mr. Chavez also says he will accept the new Colombian ambassador 's credentials after months of delays .
Last week , Colombia announced the end of the dispute over the seizure of Rodrigo Granda , a member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC .
Colombia said it paid bounty hunters to capture Mr. Granda in Caracas in December .
Venezuela accused Colombia of violating its sovereignty in what it says was a kidnapping .
Canada 's foreign minister was splattered with red paint by a protester Friday while speaking at a Montreal news conference about the situation in Haiti .
Pierre Pettigrew left the conference briefly to change clothes as security guards led the protester out of the room .
The incident took place as Canadian and Haitian ministers , officials from donor countries , and the special U.N. representative for Haiti were meeting to discuss progress in the Caribbean nation as it prepares for elections later this year .
Canada is urging the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti to intervene more directly in the internal political process .
Violence on both sides of the Arab-Israeli conflict killed at least three people Friday .
Israeli military officials say Palestinian gunmen ambushed a car outside the West Bank city of Nablus , killing one Israeli and wounding three others .
The militant group , Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , has claimed responsibility for the attack .
In Gaza , Israeli tank fire killed a young Palestinian man in unclear circumstances .
Earlier , another Palestinian was shot and killed by Israeli soldiers while trying to enter the Jewish settlement of Ganei Tal in the southern Gaza Strip .
It was not clear if the man was armed .
On Thursday , Israeli troops killed a Palestinian gunman as he attempted to infiltrate the same settlement , in a botched attack that was claimed by the militant group , Hamas .
The Olympic torch relay has resumed after a three-day suspension to mark the official mourning period for victims of last week 's devastating earthquake in Sichuan province .
The torch relay resumed Thursday in China 's eastern port city , Ningbo , with a minute of silence in honor of the more than 80,000 who are dead or missing .
After Ningbo , the torch will travel to Shanghai .
Organizers of the Beijing Olympics say they plan to scale back the celebratory tone of the relay .
The epicenter of the May 12 7.9 magnitude earthquake was in Sichuan , and most of the confirmed deaths from the quake are there .
Organizers say the torch will still travel through Sichuan province , but later than planned to avoid hampering rescue efforts .
The Sichuan leg of the relay was originally planned for mid-June , but has now been put off until early August - August 3 to August 5 .
To the optimist , the glass is half full .
To the pessimist , the glass is half empty .
To the engineer , the glass is twice as big as it needs to be .
Top seed Maria Sharapova of Russia has withdrawn from the semifinals of the China Open tennis tournament in Beijing , giving countrywoman Maria Kirilenko a slot in the final .
Sharapova was trailing , 6-4 , 2-1 , when she pulled out because of an injury to her right pectoral muscle .
The crowd booed when the top-seeded Russian retired from the semifinal .
In Sunday 's final , Kirilenko faces Germany 's Anna-Lena Groenefeld , a straight-set winner over Marta Domachowska of Poland 7-5 , 6-4 .
Sharapova is the latest of several players to withdraw because of injury .
World number two Lindsay Davenport of the United States pulled out of the tournament before it started because of back trouble .
Venus Williams of the United States withdrew from her quarterfinal match Friday because of a knee problem .
Authorities in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh say at least 11 people were killed Sunday afternoon when a bus packed with passengers veered off a road and plunged into a canal .
The authorities say the accident happened in the Bulandshahr district after the driver lost control of the vehicle .
They say 11 bodies have been recovered by rescue workers , but cautioned the death toll could rise .
The rescue operation continued into the night .
India is plagued by traffic accidents due to poorly maintained vehicles and roads , and hazardous driving .
Local officials said 22 Taliban insurgents have been killed in fighting in southern Afghanistan .
Officials said NATO airstrikes and Afghan security forces attacked the group of militants Friday in Helmand province .
They said several local Taliban commanders were among the dead .
The clash took place near the province 's main city , Lashkar Gah .
Earlier in the same province , the British defense ministry said a roadside bomb blast killed a British Royal Marine .
NATO said the man was part of the NATO-led international force battling insurgents in Afghanistan .
Two other NATO soldiers were killed in fighting in the east .
A spokesman for the force said they came under direct fire while under patrol .
Their identities and nationalities were not immediately released .
Angola has imposed travel restrictions on people who have visited an area hit hard by an outbreak of the deadly Marburg virus .
Angola 's deputy health minister , Jose Van Dunem , says anyone who has visited northern Uige province will not be allowed to leave the country for 21 days .
He said the measure is necessary to stop the spread of the Marburg virus to neighboring countries .
Health officials say the disease has killed at least 117 people , mostly children .
All of those who died contracted the disease in Uige .
Two deaths took place in Angola 's capital , Luanda .
Several neighboring countries have put their health workers on alert for people showing symptoms of the disease .
Marburg virus , similar to the deadly Ebola virus , causes high fever , vomiting , and bloody discharges .
Delegates from 57 Muslim countries will discuss the challenges and dangers of Islamic extremism when they meet Wednesday at the Organization of Islamic Conference summit in Saudi Arabia .
Representatives began discussing the agenda Tuesday in the Red Sea city of Jeddah , with plans to combat terrorism high on the list .
OIC Secretary-General Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu , who is from Turkey , proposed a plan to restructure the 36-year-old organization over the next ten years .
The so-called " 10 Year Program of Action " calls for decisive cooperation to deal with political , socio-economic , cultural and scientific challenges that weaken Islamic nations .
The summit begins Wednesday in the Muslim holy city of Mecca .
This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in 1857 for its guano .
Mining took place between 1865 and 1898 .
The lighthouse , built in 1917 , was shut down in 1996 and administration of Navassa Island transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department of the Interior .
A 1998 scientific expedition to the island described it as a unique preserve of Caribbean biodiversity ; the following year it became a National Wildlife Refuge and annual scientific expeditions have continued .
A deputy governor has been shot and wounded in the latest violence to hit strife-torn southern Thailand .
Authorities say the deputy governor of Pattani province , Soonthorn Rittipakdee , was visiting the scene of a previous shooting Tuesday when he was wounded .
Mr. Soonthorn was taken to a provincial hospital after the shooting .
Police say he should survive the attack .
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra said he believed the shooting was an accident , but did not elaborate .
Mr. Soonthorn is believed to be one of the highest-ranking casualties of sectarian violence that has claimed the lives of hundreds of people in southern Thailand since January .
The southern Thai provinces of Yala , Pattani and Narathiwat are the only Muslim-majority areas in the mostly Buddhist nation .
India has test-fired another multi-target surface-to-air missile , as part of trials of its airborne warfare systems .
The missile , known as " Akash , " or the Sky , has a range of approximately 25 kilometers and can carry a warhead of up to 50 kilograms .
Indian defense officials say the missile performed successfully in Monday 's test in eastern Orissa state .
They say it was fired from a mobile launcher at the country 's main Chandipur coastal testing site , northeast of the state capital , Bhubaneshwar .
It was the third Akash missile test in as many days .
On Saturday , two missiles fired from rocket launchers tracked , intercepted and destroyed two airborne targets at a range of about 20 kilometers .
The missile is one of five being developed by India 's state-run Defense Research and Development Organization .
South Africa is a middle-income , emerging market with an abundant supply of natural resources ; well-developed financial , legal , communications , energy , and transport sectors ; a stock exchange that is the 18th largest in the world ; and modern infrastructure supporting a relatively efficient distribution of goods to major urban centers throughout the region .
At the end of 2007 , South Africa began to experience an electricity crisis .
State power supplier Eskom encountered problems with aged plants , necessitating " load-shedding " cuts to residents and businesses in the major cities .
Growth was robust from 2004 to 2007 as South Africa reaped the benefits of macroeconomic stability and a global commodities boom , but began to slow in the second half of 2007 due to the electricity crisis and the subsequent global financial crisis ' impact on commodity prices and demand .
GDP fell nearly 2 % in 2009 .
Unemployment remains high and outdated infrastructure has constrained growth .
Daunting economic problems remain from the apartheid era - especially poverty , lack of economic empowerment among the disadvantaged groups , and a shortage of public transportation .
South Africa 's former economic policy was fiscally conservative , focusing on controlling inflation , and attaining a budget surplus .
The current government largely follows the same prudent policies , but must contend with the impact of the global crisis and is facing growing pressure from special interest groups to use state-owned enterprises to deliver basic services to low-income areas and to increase job growth .
More than a quarter of South Africa 's population currently receives social grants .
China 's state media report the environmental impact of the Three Gorges Dam project may force four million more people to relocate from the area .
Friday 's reports say residents near the dam will be encouraged to move to the outskirts of the nearby city of Chongqing in southwestern China .
Nearly 1.5 million people have already been displaced to make way for the world 's biggest hydroelectric project .
The reports quote Chongqing 's Vice Mayor Yu Yuanmu as saying the reservoir area near the dam has a vulnerable environment that is threatened by overpopulation .
Last month , Chinese media reports said the project had created potentially catastrophic environmental problems , including flooding and land erosion .
Environmentalists , who have long condemned the project , say the dam 's reservoir will likely become heavily polluted with industrial waste .
The Pacific Ocean was so named for its seemingly peaceful character , but unusually high waves pounded the California coastline Thursday .
The waves rose up to five and one half meters in some places , but most were in the two-meter range .
A strong storm in the North Pacific Ocean that started out in the Gulf of Alaska generated the waves .
These high waves happen occasionally on the California coast and usually do n't harm coastline structures .
Some beachside communities built sand berms to help protect their property .
But for the many California surfboard riders it is an exciting opportunity that only happens a couple of times each year .
Coastline authorities and experienced surfers emphasize that only highly skilled surfers should enter the water in these extreme conditions .
The large swells are expected to fade soon .
Former world number one men 's tennis player Lleyton Hewitt of Australia has beaten number two Andy Roddick of the United States to reach the finals of the Tennis Masters Cup tournament in Houston , Texas .
Hewitt took less than one hour to beat the second-seeded American in straight sets , 6-3 , 6-2 .
The loss cost Roddick not only a chance at the title but also the one million dollars that goes to an undefeated champion .
Until Saturday , Roddick had not lost a match in round robin play .
The Australian faces the winner of the day 's second semifinals between world number one Roger Federer and Russian Marat Safin .
Federer is also undefeated so far in this tournament and has a chance to win the million-dollar payday .
The champion is guaranteed $ 700,000 .
Iran has denied allegations that it has a secret nuclear weapons facility .
Iranian officials say the claim by the opposition National Council of Resistance of Iran is a lie .
They say the group is trying to negate the progress Iran recently made with European negotiators by agreeing to suspend uranium enrichment .
Tehran says the facility in question is only used to generate electricity .
Meanwhile , the Washington Post is reporting that U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell 's claim that Iran could be developing nuclear-capable missiles was based on intelligence that was classified and based on what it called an " unvetted , single source . "
Mr. Powell said Wednesday that intelligence indicates Iran is trying to modify its missiles to carry nuclear warheads , but did not elaborate .
The U.S. television network Fox has identified two of its employees who were kidnapped by Palestinian gunmen in the Gaza Strip Monday .
A Fox spokesman named American correspondent Steve Centanni and cameraman Olaf Wiig from New Zealand .
Witnesses say the two were taken away by gunman after their car was intercepted in Gaza City .
Meanwhile , witnesses say an Israeli airstrike in Gaza has destroyed an empty house .
The Israeli military said it was targeting a command center of the Islamic Jihad militant group , and had warned residents of the house before the airstrike took place .
Earlier , Palestinian hospital officials said an Israeli military strike in northern Gaza killed three Palestinians , including a teenage boy .
Israel 's military says it targeted Palestinian militants in the area after they fired two rockets at the Israeli city of Ashkelon .
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the rocket attack , which did not cause any casualties .
Radical Muslim militant Shamil Basayev , in a Chechen rebel-linked website , has reportedly claimed responsibility for a extensive blackout that hit large parts of Moscow Wednesday .
But Russian officials repeated Friday their belief that the power outage was caused by a fire and explosion at an energy substation , which they say runs on worn-out equipment .
The militant has claimed responsibility for some of Russia 's deadliest terrorist attacks , including last year 's elementary school massacre of 330 people .
Yesterday , Russian prosecutors questioned the chief of the country 's monopoly power company , Anatoly Chubais , about the blackout .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has accused Unified Energy Systems , the monopoly company that is mostly owned by the government , of negligence .
Wednesday 's blackout shut down the Moscow stock market , forced hospitals to switch to emergency power , and left thousands of people stranded in subways .
Afghan officials say Taliban gunmen have shot and killed a tribal elder and his son , who was a former bodyguard for President Hamid Karzai .
The two victims were shot to death as they left Saturday 's morning prayers at a mosque in the southern province of Kandahar Mr. Karzai condemned the attack as an affront to Islam .
In a separate development , three people were killed in a roadside bomb blast in the eastern province of Paktika .
Also , NATO officials say a suicide car bomber struck an international military convoy in western Afghanistan , wounding at least four foreign troops .
Elsewhere , officials say NATO forces killed 19 suspected militants in an overnight operation in central Wardak province .
NATO officials also say they have launched an investigation into a recent NATO air strike against Taliban militants , in which Afghan officials say at least 17 civilians were killed .
Iran says it has filed a complaint with the International Monetary Fund against a U.S. treasury department ban on a leading Iranian bank .
Iranian state television quotes central bank chief Ebrahim Sheibani as saying Iran lodged the complaint after the United States imposed sanctions this month on Bank Saderat .
U.S. officials allege the Iranian government uses the bank to transfer millions of dollars to terrorist groups , including Hezbollah and Hamas .
Sheibani says the ban is politically motivated and the United States has not provided any evidence for its claim .
Iranian banks have long been denied access to the U.S. financial system but are able to access the system indirectly through third-country banks .
The ban effectively cuts off Bank Saderat from the U.S. financial system .
The cut-off comes as Washington continues to pressure Iran to stop enriching uranium as part of its nuclear program .
Angry crowds in several Indian cities burned pictures of Hollywood actor Richard Gere and Indian actress Shilpa Shetty after he publicly kissed her hand and cheeks at an AIDS awareness event .
Demonstrators say Gere 's kissing of Shetty goes against Indian culture .
Protesters gathered Monday in at least three Indian cities - Mumbai , Varanasi , Meerut - where they chanted " Down with Shilpa Shetty " while burning pictures of the two actors .
Gere and Shetty appeared at a press conference Sunday in New Delhi to promote AIDS awareness among truck drivers in India .
During the conference , Gere kissed Shetty on the hand and repeatedly on the cheeks in front of cheering crowds .
Italian troops have begun arriving in Lebanon to boost a United Nations peacekeeping mission .
Helicopters and rubber boats were bringing ashore the more than 800 soldiers from an Italian military ship off the coast of the southern city of Tyre .
Those troops are part of the first large contingent to arrive since Israel and Hezbollah agreed to end their fighting in Lebanon .
Italy 's military plans to deploy more than 2,000 soldiers in the coming months to the international force that will include some 15,000 personnel .
Spain and France also are making large contributions to the force .
In Beirut , Lebanese lawmakers began a sit-in to protest Israel 's continued blockade of air , land and sea access to Lebanon .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has said Israel should withdraw from Lebanon once five thousand U.N. peacekeepers have deployed .
The space shuttle Endeavourhas undocked from the International Space Station after bringing equipment needed to expand its capacity from three to six people .
The shuttle left the orbiting outpost Friday with seven astronauts , and looped around the space station so the shuttle crew could photograph its exterior .
The astronauts shared a Thanksgiving dinner Thursday with the three-person crew aboard the International Space Station before saying their goodbyes and sealing the hatches between the shuttle and the space station .
The shuttle is scheduled to arrive at the Kennedy Space Center in the southeastern U.S. state of Florida on Sunday .
As part of the 16-day mission , the shuttle crew delivered and installed a new toilet , kitchen equipment , and water recycling system meant to allow the space station to double its crew capacity .
Estonia 's Kristina Smigun has captured her second gold medal of the Turin Winter Olympics , with a victory in the women 's 10-kilometer classical cross country ski event .
Smigun , who won the 15-kilometer pursuit on Sunday , finished more than 21 seconds ahead of Marit Bjoergen of Norway , who took the silver medal Thursday .
Hilde Pedersen , also from Norway , won the bronze .
Seven other gold medals are at stake Thursday , in Turin .
The men 's Nordic Combined is on the schedule after high winds postponed the event on Wednesday .
Thursday 's schedule also includes the debut of men 's snowboard cross , while the free program will complete men 's figure skating .
Women will ski and shoot for gold in the 7.5 kilometer biathlon sprint .
Women will also compete in skeleton singles .
Both genders will seek medals in speedskating team pursuit .
Iraqi police say insurgents killed at least nine people in separate attacks , while security forces and people in hospitals and detention centers cast ballots Monday , three days ahead of the main voting in parliamentary elections .
Authorities are imposing tight security before the polls open for general balloting Thursday .
Iraq 's borders and airports will be closed .
Road travel will be restricted to vehicles with special permits , and curfews will be extended effective Tuesday .
Election officials say Iraqi voters living outside the country will begin casting ballots Tuesday at polling stations in 15 countries , including the United States .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says one American soldier was killed in a suicide car bomb blast in Ramadi Sunday .
Another U.S. soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast in Baghdad today .
Nepalese politicians say police detained hundreds of protesters across the country Monday as they protested King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power last month .
The Communist Party of Nepal says 500 people were arrested in the eastern city of Janakpur , where the largest demonstration took place .
Five political parties vowed to hold protests Monday in defiance of a ban on public demonstrations .
Dozens of people were also arrested in Kathmandu .
As the protests took place , Maoist rebels set fire to four buses near Itahari after their leader , Prachanda , ordered stepped up attacks and strikes against King Gyanendra .
The New Delhi-based Asia Center for Human Rights is calling for international intervention in the political crisis in Nepal , saying it could deepen if not resolved soon .
Celtic tribes arrived on the island between 600 - 150 B.C.
Invasions by Norsemen that began in the late 8th century were finally ended when King Brian BORU defeated the Danes in 1014 .
English invasions began in the 12th century and set off more than seven centuries of Anglo-Irish struggle marked by fierce rebellions and harsh repressions .
A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched off several years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in independence from the UK for 26 southern counties ; six northern ( Ulster ) counties remained part of the UK .
In 1949 , Ireland withdrew from the British Commonwealth ; it joined the European Community in 1973 .
Irish governments have sought the peaceful unification of Ireland and have cooperated with Britain against terrorist groups .
A peace settlement for Northern Ireland is gradually being implemented despite some difficulties .
In 2006 , the Irish and British governments developed and began to implement the St. Andrews Agreement , building on the Good Friday Agreement approved in 1998 .
Explored and settled by the Spanish in the 16th century , Panama broke with Spain in 1821 and joined a union of Colombia , Ecuador , and Venezuela - named the Republic of Gran Colombia .
When the latter dissolved in 1830 , Panama remained part of Colombia .
With US backing , Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903 and promptly signed a treaty with the US allowing for the construction of a canal and US sovereignty over a strip of land on either side of the structure ( the Panama Canal Zone ) .
The Panama Canal was built by the US Army Corps of Engineers between 1904 and 1914 .
In 1977 , an agreement was signed for the complete transfer of the Canal from the US to Panama by the end of the century .
Certain portions of the Zone and increasing responsibility over the Canal were turned over in the subsequent decades .
With US help , dictator Manuel NORIEGA was deposed in 1989 .
The entire Panama Canal , the area supporting the Canal , and remaining US military bases were transferred to Panama by the end of 1999 .
In October 2006 , Panamanians approved an ambitious plan ( estimated to cost $ 5.3 billion ) to expand the Canal .
The project , which began in 2007 and could double the Canal 's capacity , is expected to be completed in 2014 - 15 .
Lithuania gained membership in the World Trade Organization and joined the EU in May 2004 .
Despite Lithuania 's EU accession , Lithuania 's trade with its Central and Eastern European neighbors , and Russia in particular , accounts for a growing percentage of total trade .
Privatization of the large , state-owned utilities is nearly complete .
Foreign government and business support have helped in the transition from the old command economy to a market economy .
Lithuania 's economy grew on average 8 % per year for the four years prior to 2008 driven by exports and domestic demand .
However , GDP plunged nearly 15 % in 2009 - during the 2008 - 09 crisis the three former Soviet Baltic republics had the world 's worst economic declines .
In 2009 , the government launched a high-profile campaign , led by Prime Minister KUBILIUS , to attract foreign investment and to develop export markets .
The current account deficit , which had risen to roughly 15 % of GDP in 2007 - 08 , recovered to a surplus of 4 % 2009 and 3.4 % in 2010 in the wake of a cutback in imports to almost half the 2008 level .
Nevertheless , economic growth was flat and unemployment continued upward to 17.9 % in 2010 .
Lebanese military sources say dozens of family members of Islamic militants have been evacuated from a Palestinian refugee camp where militants have been battling government forces for months .
The sources say some 60 women and children left the battered Nahr el-Bared camp in northern Lebanon Friday after a cease-fire was negotiated with the militants .
Fighting between the Lebanese Army and the Fatah al-Islam militants began May 20 .
Since then , government troops have tried to evict the al-Qaida-inspired militants , who have defied demands to leave the camp .
The fighting has killed 142 Lebanese troops and many militants and civilians .
The government believes less than 100 militants remain in the camp .
Before the fighting , the camp had a population of more than 30,000 people .
Most of the residents have since fled .
Yet another major carmaker is slashing jobs .
This time DaimlerChrysler is cutting 6000 positions to save more than $ 1 billion a year .
The cuts trim one fifth of the company 's management and administrative workers over the next two years .
Daimler announced 8,500 production job cuts last year .
DaimlerChrysler 's cuts follow recent announcements by larger rivals Ford and General Motors that they are slashing tens of thousands of workers and closing two dozen factories and other facilities .
DaimlerChrysler is the world 's fifth-largest carmaker , and it is based in Germany and the United States .
Intensified competition from Asian automakers is forcing European and U.S. companies to slash costs and search for greater efficiency .
Authorities have lost control of a southern Afghanistan district after Taleban fighters attacked and disarmed police late Thursday .
Reports from Musa Qala in the southern province of Helmand say hundreds of Taleban fighters seized the town , destroying part of its district headquarters .
The Associated press quotes a spokesman for NATO forces in Afghanistan , Colonel Tom Collins , as saying an unknown number of militants apparently entered Musa Qala .
British forces pulled out of the town last year after a peace deal was signed between local elders and the Helmand provincial government .
President Bush will highlight economic progress in Iraq during a speech he is set to give shortly Wednesday in Washington .
In his address before the Council on Foreign Relations , Mr. Bush is expected to discuss U.S. efforts in rebuilding Iraq 's schools , hospitals and infrastructure , as well as creating new businesses .
Wednesday 's speech is the second in a series of addresses defending the administration 's Iraq war policy .
Mr. Bush 's approval ratings have dropped to the lowest of his presidency , thanks in part to the continued insurgency in Iraq that has claimed the lives of more than 2,000 U.S. service members .
Several Democratic lawmakers sent a letter to the president Tuesday , urging him to put public relations aside in today 's speech and present what they termed a " real " strategy for success , naming specific benchmarks by which progress can be measured .
Three members of Iraq 's largest Sunni Arab political party were kidnapped and killed Friday on a Mosul street in broad daylight .
A spokesman for the Iraqi Islamic Party said the men were hanging posters urging people to vote in October 's scheduled constitutional referendum when they were abducted .
They were driven to a different part of the city , made to stand against a wall in front of a mosque and then sprayed with gunfire .
Some insurgent groups have threatened to kill anyone who participates in the constitutional referendum .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , hundreds of supporters of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr demonstrated against calls for federalism in Iraq .
Shi'ites are divided over the issue .
Iraq 's largest Shi'ite party , the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq supports it , but several smaller groups do not .
One of the two main rebel groups in Sudan 's Darfur region has demanded a United Nations force to replace African Union troops in the troubled region .
The leader of the Justice and Equality Movement , Khalil Ibrahim , said Thursday the AU force has failed to protect civilians in Darfur or disarm pro-government Arab militias known as the Janjaweed .
In an interview with Reuters news agency , he said his group will not return to peace talks in Nigeria unless the United Nations takes over as lead mediator from the African Union .
This latest round of AU-sponsored talks broke off this week with both the rebels and the government accusing each other of violating a cease-fire agreement .
The African Union has sent some 800 troops to Darfur to protect cease-fire monitors , but they are not mandated to protect civilians or to intervene in fighting .
Paraguay achieved its independence from Spain in 1811 .
In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance ( 1865 - 70 ) - between Paraguay and Argentina , Brazil , and Uruguay - Paraguay lost two-thirds of all adult males and much of its territory .
The country stagnated economically for the next half century .
Following the Chaco War of 1932 - 35 with Bolivia , Paraguay gained a large part of the Chaco lowland region .
The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo STROESSNER ended in 1989 , and , despite a marked increase in political infighting in recent years , Paraguay has held relatively free and regular presidential elections since then .
Lebanese prosecutors have issued charges against four pro-Syrian generals in connection with the February assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Officials say the charges were brought on the recommendation of the head of the U.N. team investigating the killing .
Detlev Mehlis says he believes the four - a top aide to pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud and three former generals - were involved in planning the assassination .
The U.N. investigator said he believes more people were involved in the killing .
Mr. Mehlis said he has not yet uncovered any Syrian links to the February 14 bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and 20 others in Beirut .
He also emphasized that Lebanon 's President Lahoud is not a suspect .
Capping a day of solemn remembrance , thousands of paper lanterns representing the souls of those killed in the atomic attack on Hiroshima , Japan , 60 years ago have floated down the city 's Motoyasu River .
Families and friends gathered along the banks of the river Saturday night to launch the candlelit lanterns .
The river is the same one survivors fled to in an effort to escape the horrific heat of the nuclear blast .
The annual lantern observance brought to a close a full day of memorials , including official ceremonies at the Peace Memorial Park and dozens of peace rallies .
Thousands of residents , joined by Japanese and foreign dignitaries , bowed their heads at 8:15 a.m. - the exact moment of the attack - and offered prayers for world peace and for the souls of those who died in the blast .
President Bush says Afghanistan and Iraq are making progress in the war on terrorism .
In his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush talked about his meeting with Afghanistan 's President Hamid Karzai at Camp David earlier this week .
He said President Karzai told him officials from Afghanistan and Pakistan have been meeting to discuss how to deal with extremists who are targeting both their countries .
Regarding Iraq , Mr. Bush said his " troop surge , " a buildup of U.S. forces in Iraq since the beginning of this year , is helping coalition troops seize the initiative from the enemy and give it to the Iraqi people , although he admitted political progress has been slower than hoped .
He said since January , each month coalition forces have killed or captured an average of more than 1,500 al-Qaida terrorists and enemies of the Iraqi government .
A delegation of Taiwan 's main opposition party visiting mainland China has paid tribute to a group of Chinese revolutionaries .
Chiang Pin-kung , the vice chairman of the Nationalist Party , laid a wreath Tuesday at a shrine in the southern city of Guangzhou honoring 72 revolutionaries killed in the effort to overthrow China 's last imperial dynasty in 1911 .
The visit by the Nationalist Party delegation comes days after a mass protest was held in Taiwan against Beijing 's new anti-secession law , which authorizes the use of force if Taiwan declares its independence from the mainland .
Official Chinese media have hailed the delegation 's visit as a step toward easing tensions between the mainland and Taiwan .
The Nationalists ruled mainland China until 1949 , when they lost a civil war to Mao Zedong 's communist forces .
At least three Palestinians have been wounded in the Gaza Strip in what witnesses say was an Israeli attempt to kill a Palestinian militant .
Palestinian witnesses say a missile from an Israeli drone struck a car carrying a top member of the Popular Resistance Committees , an umbrella organization of militant factions .
The apparent target of the attack , identified as Jamal Abu Samahdna , was reported among the wounded .
Israel has not commented .
Last week , Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Israel would not launch attacks or raids in the Palestinian territories in the runup to January ninth Palestinian elections , as long as the Jewish state is not provoked .
In other developments , about 3,000 members of Mr. Sharon 's minority Likud Party vote today on forming a new coalition government to advance plans for a proposed Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
The first Roman Catholic priest to serve as a voting member of the U.S Congress has died .
Georgetown University says Reverend Robert Drinan died at the age of 86 after suffering from pneumonia and congestive heart failure .
He represented Massachusetts in the House of Representatives during the 1970s before stepping down when Pope John Paul II issued a directive barring priests from holding public office .
After leaving Congress , Drinan continued to advocate human rights and humanitarian causes .
He also taught classes on international human rights , law , legal ethics and religion and government at Georgetown .
Every two to four years , the Perito Moreno Glacier in Los Glacieres National Park , Argentina breaks apart .
It 's a spectacular sight that attracts thousands .
This year , for the first time in memory , the breakup took place during the southern hemisphere 's winter .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has more .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has been rushed to a Jerusalem hospital after suffering his second stroke in less than three weeks .
Doctors at Hadassah Hospital said the stroke Wednesday was " significant , " and that Mr. Sharon was given anesthetic after being admitted to the clinic .
The prime minister 's office said that while Mr. Sharon was under anesthetic , his duties were transferred to his deputy , Ehud Olmert .
Earlier , his office said the 77-year-old was being accompanied by his personal physician as he was taken to the hospital from his ranch in southern Israel .
Mr. Sharon was admitted to the same hospital where he was to undergo a procedure Thursday to correct a defect in his heart .
That procedure was ordered after Mr. Sharon suffered a mild stroke last month .
Political leaders representing Iraq 's ethnic and religious groups remain at odds over key provisions of a new constitution , despite Monday 's deadline for completion of a draft document .
Friday prayers brought calls from Sunni Arab clerics for followers to reject federalism and vote against a constitution containing provisions that divide the country .
On Thursday , Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim , the leader of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite party , the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution announced his support for a federal region in central and southern Iraq .
Iraq 's Kurds also favor a federal structure that will protect their autonomous status in the country 's north .
The draft is to be submitted to Iraq 's National Assembly Monday for debate before an October referendum .
In other developments , a roadside bomb attack early Friday killed an American soldier who was on patrol in Tikrit , north of Baghdad .
Iraq executed three convicted murderers Thursday - the first time the government has carried out the death penalty since Saddam Hussein was in power .
A government spokesman , Laith Kubba , told reporters that the three were hanged at 10 AM local time .
They were convicted of kidnapping , rape and murder .
The presidential council approved their death sentences last month .
But President Jalal Talabani , who opposes the death penalty , refused to authorize the hangings , and instead empowered one of his vice presidents to sign on his behalf .
U.S. President George Bush has commented on his meeting this week with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki , saying Mr. Maliki made it clear that the Iraqi people do not want the country partitioned .
Mr. Bush said in his Saturday radio address Saturday that Mr. Maliki told him partitioning the country would lead to more sectarian violence .
Mr. Bush said the success of the Iraqi government depends on the success of Iraqi security forces .
He added that he and Mr. Maliki agree that training of Iraqi security forces needs to be done faster and on a broader scale .
President Bush said he recognizes that recent violence in Iraq has been unsettling .
And he pledged to work with U.S. leaders in both political parties to find consensus on the best path forward .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has marked the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr with a call for peace .
Mr. Karzai called on Taliban militants Sunday to renounce violence and join the peace process .
He says insurgents can lay down their arms and help rebuild their war-torn country .
Meanwhile , the Taliban 's leader has made his own statement for the festival of Eid .
Mullah Omar warns that U.S. and NATO forces will face defeat in Afghanistan .
In a statement Saturday , Omar said Westerners need only study Afghanistan 's history to see that they will fail .
The Taliban leader is thought to be in Pakistan but has not been seen in public for years .
Snow , freezing rain , gusting winds and record low temperatures in Europe are claiming lives and making for treacherous travel across the continent .
As many as 25 deaths have been reported .
Authorities say many of the victims are homeless people who died as a result of exposure to the brutal winter elements .
Vehicle accidents on ice-covered roads have caused many injuries and closed highways .
The M-1 motorway connecting Budapest with Vienna was closed Friday after a multi-car pile-up that killed a boy .
In Slovakia , the Bratislava-Trnava highway was closed after a 40-car accident killed at least one person and injured 20 others .
The storms disrupted rail , road and air transport across the region .
Electricity outages were reported Friday in Austria and Sweden .
New Year 's revelers across Europe are being advised to take measures to protect themselves against the extreme weather conditions .
Italian soldiers have begun arriving in western Afghanistan , under plans by NATO to expand its peacekeeping mission in the country .
The Turkish commander of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan , Lieutenant General Ethem Erdagi , said an initial deployment of Italian troops started to arrive today in the main western city of Herat .
Soldiers from Spain , Greece and Lithuania are due in the region later .
NATO took command of ISAF in 2003 .
Until now , its peacekeeping troops have only been deployed in the Afghan capital Kabul and the north of the country .
NATO defense ministers meeting in France last month approved plans to expand the peacekeeping mission .
The United States has been pressing for the expansion to relieve pressure on stretched American forces .
Thousands of French workers have marched through Paris and other cities protesting planned government pension reforms as fishermen continued protests against soaring fuel costs .
Police say about 30,000 protesters marched in the French capital and tens of thousands in other cities protesting changes that will require them to work 41 years to get a pension , an increase of one year .
Trade union officials put the number of protesters nationwide at 700,000 .
The protests hobbled train traffic .
But subway service in Paris has been largely unaffected .
Meanwhile , fishermen rejected as inadequate a new government package aimed at compensating them for soaring fuel prices and continued blocking entry to some ports .
A nine-day strike by transportation workers last November cost the French economy an estimated $ 400 million a day .
Strikes in 1995 forced then-President Jacques Chirac to back down from reform plans .
Cuba says it has restored formal relations with Spain , a year after the European Union imposed diplomatic sanctions on the communist island .
Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque announced the decision Thursday , shortly before a meeting in Havana with new Spanish Ambassador Carlos Zaldivar .
The European Union imposed the sanctions after Cuba 's 2003 detainment of 75 dissidents , and the execution of three men who tried to hijack a ferry to the United States .
No additional information has been given by either government .
The Afghan Islamic Press says the Taleban has rejected a U.S. appeal for its fighters to surrender under a government offer of amnesty .
The Pakistan-based news organization quoted Taleban spokesman Latifullah Hakimi Friday as saying the group considers the U.S. offer an attempt to divide it .
The Afghan Islamic Press also quotes Mr. Hakimi as saying the Taleban will never stop fighting as long as U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan .
Thursday , U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad urged Taleban fighters to lay down their arms under an Afghan government offer of amnesty .
Ambassador Khalilzad said U.S. forces will cooperate with the the amnesty , which he said will not apply to those who , have committed " crimes against the Afghan people . "
A Pakistani court has sentenced an al-Qaida-linked militant to death for plotting a suicide attack that killed a U.S. diplomat in Karachi two years ago .
The anti-terrorism court in Karachi convicted Anwarul Haq Wednesday of murder and terrorism in connection with the bombing .
In the March 2006 attack , a suicide bomber rammed his car into a vehicle carrying U.S. diplomat David Foy near the American consulate in Karachi .
The explosion killed Foy and three Pakistanis , one day before President Bush began an official visit to Pakistan .
Pakistani authorities arrested Haq and another suspect , Usman Ghani , several months later and accused both of links to al-Qaida .
The Karachi court acquitted Ghani for lack of evidence .
The Associated Press quotes a defense lawyer Mohammed Farooq as saying Haq will appeal his conviction .
The lawyer also accused police of producing " fake " witnesses against his client .
The United States and Russia say they hope to sign a formal agreement next week that paves the way for Russia to join the World Trade Organization .
The two sides announced an agreement in principle Friday that covers tariffs on agricultural and industrial goods , access to Russian financial markets , and Moscow 's protection of intellectual property rights .
Terms of the agreement were not released .
U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab said the two countries are still finalizing the details but hope to sign a formal document at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Hanoi next week .
The United States has been the last W.T.O . member to reach an bilateral pact with Russia .
Moscow would then enter into membership negotiations with the entire trade organization .
Dubai Ports World says it will take months to sell its holdings in the United States , and these assets are worth " hundreds of millions " of dollars .
DP World was in the middle of a recent political storm in the U.S. after the company , based in the United Arab Emirates , purchased facilities in ports around the world , including some U.S. container and passenger terminals .
Members of the U.S. Congress and others expressed concern that DP World would not do enough to protect U.S. ports from terror attack .
DP World said last week that it would " transfer " its U.S. holdings to a U.S. entity , but gave few details .
President Barack Obama has reaffirmed his belief in a woman 's right to choose whether to have an abortion as tens of thousands of abortion opponents held their annual rally in Washington .
President Obama issued a statement Thursday calling abortion a sensitive and divisive issue .
While he said the government must not intrude in private family matters , the country is united on the need to prevent unintended pregnancies .
Thursday 's annual gathering , which supporters call the Right to Life March , came on the 36th anniversary of Roe versus Wade - the U.S. Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion .
Supporters of the landmark decision say it protects women 's lives and makes the right to choose to have a safe and legal abortion sacred .
Abortion opponents say life starts at conception and liken abortion to genocide .
They urge women with unwanted pregnancies to carry their babies to term and give them up for adoption .
The great-granddaughter of South Africa 's anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela has been killed in a car crash as she traveled home from the concert kick-off for the 2010 soccer World Cup .
The Nelson Mandela Foundation said Zenani Mandela died in the one-car accident on a Johannesburg highway .
It said no one else was injured in the crash .
Police in Johannesburg have charged the driver with drunk driving and say they are considering " culpable homicide " charges as well .
Zenani had celebrated her 13th birthday only two days earlier .
She is one of nine great-grandchildren of Mr. Mandela , who was South Africa 's first black president .
The foundation said the Mandela family asked for privacy as they mourned their loss .
The World Cup soccer championship officially begins Friday , with a match-up between South Africa and Mexico in Johannesburg .
The human rights group Amnesty International says China is fast emerging as one of the world 's biggest , most secretive and irresponsible arms exporters .
Amnesty says Chinese weapons sales to Sudan , Nepal and Burma have aggravated conflicts there and encouraged repressive rule in those countries .
In a new report , Amnesty accuses China of shipping tens of thousands of rifles and grenades to Nepal 's security forces .
It also says Beijing has exported hundreds of military trucks to Burma and Sudan .
The London-based group says China 's arms exports , estimated to exceed $ 1 billion a year , often involve the exchange of weapons for raw materials to fuel the country 's rapid economic growth .
China rarely confirms sales of military equipment - a policy that has compounded U.S. concerns about Beijing 's military buildup and what Washington says is a lack of transparency in its defense policies .
At least 18 people have been slain in attacks central Nigeria , in the latest breakout of inter-religious violence that has killed thousands over the past decade .
Authorities in Plateau State said people with machetes on Tuesday killed 13 people , including women and children .
The attack took place before dawn in the majority Christian village of Kuru Wareng .
Five other people were killed in a separate attack Tuesday in the nearby area of Barakin Ladi .
The two sites are located in Nigeria 's volatile Middle Belt , where the mostly Muslim north meets the mainly Christian south .
Nearby is the city of Jos , where at least 80 people died in a wave of Christmas Eve bombings claimed by the radical Islamist group Boko Haram .
Nigerian authorities say the attacks were intended to inflame tensions between Muslims and Christians before April 's scheduled presidential election .
Former Haitian leader Jean Bertrand Aristide says he will not play a role in his country 's politics once he returns home .
The former president and ex-priest told international news agencies in Pretoria , South Africa Wednesday , that he wants to return to Haiti to teach .
Mr. Aristide has been living in exile in South Africa since he was forced out of office in February 2004 after an armed uprising .
Mr. Aristide says the date of his return depends upon negotiations between Haitian President-elect Rene Preval , the United Nations and other interested parties .
Mr. Preval , a former protégé of Mr. Aristide , was declared the winner of Haiti 's February 7 presidential elections last week .
Experts and policy makers from around the world have gathered in Cameroon to discuss new ways to battle malaria , which remains one of Africa 's main killers .
About 1,500 doctors , scientists and health workers are expected to attend the week-long Pan-Africa malaria conference in Cameroon 's capital , Yaounde .
The event was organized by the Multilateral Initiative on Malaria , a global alliance of organizations .
Topics to be covered include new drug treatment methods , prevention techniques , and the development of a malaria vaccine .
The deputy director of the London-based Gates Malaria Partnership , created four years ago by U.S. computer magnate Bill Gates , says the foundation recently approved grants to fund more malaria programs in Africa .
The Multilateral Initiative on Malaria estimates that an African child dies from malaria every 30 seconds .
Confessed swindler Bernard Madoff will have to wait a bit longer to find out how long his prison sentence will be .
He could get up to 150 years for stealing tens of billions of dollars from investment clients through an elaborate scheme of lies .
The judge has put off Madoff 's sentencing until June 29 .
Some of Madoff 's many victims are expected to speak to the court before the judge pronounces the sentence .
Madoff 's $ 65 billion fraud is the largest in U.S. history and it went undetected by U.S. financial regulators for perhaps 20 years .
Thursday , the Securities and Exchange Commission voted to tighten regulations by subjecting investment advisers who hold clients ' money to surprise inspections by independent auditors once a year .
Louisiana 's governor has announced a long-awaited rebuilding proposal , almost six months after Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita ravaged the U.S. state .
Governor Kathleen Blanco Monday said the state 's $ 7.5 billion plan offers up to $ 150,000 to homeowners to repair , rebuild or relocate to a designated area .
Homeowners could also accept a buyout of 60 percent of the pre-storm value of their houses , not to exceed $ 150,000 .
Officials say some 330,000 homes suffered damage , including more than 100,000 that were significantly damaged or destroyed .
Uninsured homeowners would also be covered under the plan , but would be subject to a 30 percent penalty .
Registration for the program would begin in March , but the proposal is dependent upon congressional approval of the funds .
Last week , the White House requested $ 4.2 billion in funding for Louisiana .
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment , and fought fiercely for its possession .
When they had fearfully lacerated each other and were faint from the long combat , they lay down exhausted with fatigue .
A Fox , who had gone round them at a distance several times , saw them both stretched on the ground with the Kid lying untouched in the middle .
He ran in between them , and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could .
The Lion and the Bear saw him , but not being able to get up , said , " Woe be to us , that we should have fought and belabored ourselves only to serve the turn of a Fox . "
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil , and another all the profit .
Officials in Afghanistan say multiple suicide bombers attacked the governor 's compound in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar Saturday , killing five policemen .
Provincial official Ahmad Wali Karzai , who is the president 's brother , says three suicide bombers were involved in the attack .
There are reports that at least one of the bombers detonated his explosives outside the compound , while the others may have been inside the compound .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Earlier this month , four suicide bombers struck a provincial council office in Kandahar , killing 13 people .
Taliban militants also claimed responsibility for that attack .
The ruling party of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak looks set to retain its two-thirds majority in the 454-seat parliament , following Thursday 's final round of legislative voting .
Preliminary results Friday indicate the National Democratic Party won at least 120 seats in the first two rounds and at least four seats Thursday .
It will have about 125 candidates competing in next week 's run-off .
That run-off will be held in districts where no candidate won more than 50 percent of the vote .
Egypt 's main opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood , won 76 seats in the first two phases , but none on Thursday .
However , 35 of the candidates it endorsed qualified to compete in the run-off .
Brotherhood officials accuse authorities of manipulating the vote .
They point to widespread reports of police interference at polling centers in opposition strongholds , and to the arrest of hundreds of Brotherhood supporters .
England 's bowlers have picked apart Sri Lanka 's lineup , with the host nation dismissed for only 188 runs on the first day of their first test match at Asgiriya Stadium in Kandy , Sri Lanka .
England lost the toss , but seam bowler Matthew Hoggard and spinner Monty Panesar took a total of seven wickets .
Hoggard finished at 4-29 while Panesar was 3-46 .
Kumar Sangakkara top scored for Sri Lanka with 92 runs , including 13 fours before being caught out by Paul Collingwood .
Prasanna Jayawardene added another 51 runs but he was caught out by Alastair Cook on a ball bowled by Panesar .
The second test at the Sinhalese Sports Club in Colombo starts December ninth .
The third test is scheduled for Galle International Stadium beginning December 18th .
England won the five-match , one-day series , 3-2 .
A British newspaper quotes Britain 's top military commander in Baghdad as saying the first pull-out of British troops from Iraq could begin in a matter of months , with a final withdrawal by mid-2008 .
The Daily Telegraph quotes General Nick Houghton as saying a withdrawal plan is under consideration .
The Telegraph Tuesday quotes General Houghton as saying a pull-out over two years would prevent Britain 's 8,000 troops from " overstaying our welcome " , while allowing time for Iraqi security forces to consolidate .
Britain 's Defense Ministry says the general 's plan depends on conditions in Iraq .
And the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff General Peter Pace Sunday flatly denied recent media reports of a scheduled withdrawal of American and British forces .
British and U.S. officials have repeatedly stressed that coalition commanders would assess conditions on the ground and adjust troop levels as necessary .
China 's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva says the United States should " shut up " about his country 's military spending .
Sha Zukang was responding Thursday to a BBC interviewer .
The interviewer had asked him about U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld 's assertion that much of China 's military spending is concealed .
Sha said the United States should keep quiet and not dictate policy to China .
He said the United States itself accounts for half of the world 's military spending .
He also said China would sacrifice lives if Taiwan declares independence .
He said for China , one inch of territory is more valuable than the lives of its people .
He added China has a sacred duty to defend its state sovereignty .
An Israeli newspaper reports that Prime Minister Ehud Olmert is urging the United States to impose a naval blockade on Iran in an effort to curb its controversial nuclear program .
Israel 's Haaretz newspaper says Wednesday that Mr. Olmert raised the issue during a meeting Monday with U.S. House of Representatives speaker Nancy Pelosi .
The report says Mr. Olmert told Pelosi that the present economic sanctions on Iran have exhausted themselves , and that aggressive action could be taken that is not violent .
According to the article , Mr. Olmert says international restrictions also should be placed on Iranian aircraft , business executives and senior officials .
Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev would not confirm the information .
The United States , Israel and other countries accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons under cover of a civilian energy program .
Iran denies the charges .
King Juan Carlos hired a public relations firmn to find out how the Spanish people felt about him .
They informed him that he had 75 % approval in the mountainous areas but only 50 % approval elsewhere The conclusion was that the reign in Spain was shaky on the plain .
The lawyer for jailed Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi says an Iranian court will hear the appeal against her jail sentence on Sunday .
Lawyer Abdolsamad Khorramshahi made the announcement Saturday .
It is not clear how long it will take the court to render a verdict in the case of Saberi , who was sentenced to eight years in prison last month on espionage charges .
Her family and the U.S. government say the charges against her are baseless .
Saberi 's father , Reza Saberi , says the 32-year-old freelance journalist ended a hunger strike Monday after refusing to eat for nearly two weeks .
Iran has criticized international involvement in the case , saying the judiciary is independent and outside interference contradicts international norms .
Iran 's ambassador to the United Nations has assured Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that Iran will cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) on the nation 's nuclear program .
Ambassador Mohammad Khazaee made the remark at a meeting with Mr. Ban during which he personally delivered a letter from Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki .
In it , Mottaki criticizes the latest Security Council sanctions on Iran for its refusal to stop enriching uranium , a process that can be used to make nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear technology is intended for peaceful purposes .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said the newest U.N. resolution , which tightens existing sanctions on trade , travel and Iran 's foreign assets , is invalid and lacks legal credibility .
Israeli troops have killed two Islamic Jihad militants in a clash near the West Bank town of Jenin .
Islamic Jihad says one of the two militants who died in the gun battle was a top leader of the group , Nidal Abu Saada .
Israeli and Palestinian officials said Israeli troops had surrounded a house near Jenin in order to arrest the militants when gunfire broke out .
Islamic Jihad has carried out a string of recent suicide attacks in Israel .
Elsewhere in the West Bank , Israeli soldiers prepared to evict Jewish settlers and activists from a hilltop settlement , a section of Amona , near Ramallah .
Hundreds of settler activists entered the area Tuesday in an attempt to resist the eviction , planned for Wednesday .
Norway says it will allow hunters to kill more than one thousand whales next year - the highest number allowed since the country resumed commercial whaling more than a decade ago .
Norway 's Fisheries Ministry said Wednesday it will raise the quota of minke whales that can be culled by 30 percent , to 1 , 52 whales .
The Norwegian parliament approved the higher quota in a unanimous vote .
Norway has said there are more than enough minke whales in the North Atlantic to sustain increased hunting .
But for the past two years , Norwegian whale hunters have fallen short of the quotas .
Norway is the only country that allows commercial whaling , in defiance of a global ban imposed by the International Whaling Commission in 1986 .
The Arab television station al-Jazeera has aired a new videotape in which the deputy leader of the al-Qaida 's terror network denounces U.S. calls for reform in the Middle East and rejects the possibility of peaceful change .
The tape , broadcast Friday , carries a message from Ayman al-Zawahiri in which he says expelling the " invading Crusaders and Jewish " forces from the Middle East will not be accomplished through demonstrations .
He said reform is possible only through fighting for the sake of God .
Ayman al-Zawahiri , speaking with a rifle beside him , also criticized the Pakistani , Saudi and Egyptian governments .
U.S. officials say they believe Osama bin Laden and his former deputy may be hiding in the rugged mountains along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border .
United Nations officials say Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has urged Burmese Prime Minister Thein Sein to ensure transparent and inclusive elections in the military-ruled country .
A U.N. spokesperson says Mr. Ban met Saturday with the Burmese premier on the sidelines of a Southeast Asia regional summit in Hanoi , Vietnam .
A statement says the secretary-general also reiterated his call for the release of political prisoners and to lift restrictions on detained pro-Democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi .
Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win said earlier this week that Aung San Suu Kyi may be freed soon after the November 7 vote .
The election is supposed to transition Burma from military to civilian rule .
It has drawn strong international criticism for imposing rules that ensure most of the seats in parliament will go to a pro-government party .
A FARMER , who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry yard , caught him at last , and being determined to take an ample revenge , tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail , and set it on fire .
The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields of the Farmer who had captured him .
It was the time of the wheat harvest ; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned home grieving sorely .
Campaigning has ended for the first round of local Palestinian elections to be held on Thursday .
Some 140,000 Palestinians are eligible to vote in 26 communities around the West Bank .
More than 800 people are running for local offices .
A second round of voting in other communities is set for early in the new year , after presidential elections that are scheduled for January 9 .
The vast majority of candidates in the local elections are members of the mainstream Fatah party .
Results from Thursday 's elections are not expected to be made public until the end of the week .
Iraqi police have detained a Saudi militant found crossing the border into Iraq .
Police said Abdullah Saleh al-Harbi is one of a group of militants that attacked a Saudi oil facility last week .
They say al-Harbi claimed to be on his way to the northern Iraqi city of Mosul , where he was to meet al-Qaida contacts .
Iraqi authorities say al-Harbi will be taken to Baghdad for interrogation .
However , Saudi officials have said the kingdom has no information about al-Harbi being a wanted militant .
The arrest comes days after Saudi officials reported killing the leader of al-Qaida forces operating in the kingdom in a firefight .
Al-Qaida 's Saudi branch has claimed responsibility for last week 's failed attack on the oil facility and has vowed to hit other Saudi oil installations .
Iraqi authorities have freed more prisoners under a national reconciliation plan announced last week by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Several hundred detainees were released Thursday from the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison , west of Baghdad , and other facilities across the country .
U.S. officials say more prisoners will be freed Friday .
Some 600 prisoners were released last week .
Mr. Maliki has promised to free 2,500 prisoners by the end of the month to foster " reconciliation and national dialogue . "
Authorities say those being freed are not involved in violent crimes or had been detained by mistake .
The Hubble Space Telescope has captured a mosaic of images to reveal the most complete picture of the early universe , with thousands of galaxies in " various stages of assembly . "
The U.S. space agency NASA said Tuesday that the farthest galaxies in the snapshot are seen as they appeared more than 13 billion years ago , or roughly 650 million years after the Big Bang - the massive explosion that many scientists believe formed our universe .
The Hubble picture displays the older , smaller galaxies together with closer , newer and more mature ones .
The result is a galactic family photo of sorts that portrays galaxies in various stages of evolution .
NASA says this is the most detailed picture of the universe yet in terms of clarity , accuracy and depth .
The Hubble Space Telescope is a joint project between NASA and the European Space Agency .
U.S. National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley says he can not confirm reports that terror leader Musab al-Zarqawi has been seriously wounded in Iraq .
But Mr. Hadley told U.S. television that Zarqawi heads a lethal network and his death would lead to a significant difference in the level of violence in Iraqi .
His comments came after London 's Sunday Times quoted an Iraqi doctor who says he treated Zarqawi at a hospital in Ramadi on Wednesday .
The Times report says the doctor was debriefed by U.S. authorities on Friday .
The doctor said the terrorist was bleeding heavily when treated and left despite recommendations that he remain under hospital care .
Saturday , the U.S. military ended a week-long offensive against insurgents holed up near the border town of al-Qaim .
Authorities said nine Marines and 125 insurgents were killed in the fighting .
The White House says President Bush will hold a news conference shortly .
A spokeswoman did not say what topics the president plans to address in the meeting with reporters , which is scheduled to take place in the Rose Garden of the White House .
The announcement comes one day after the president nominated White House Counsel Harriet Miers to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court .
A CARTER was driving a waggon loaded with a merchant 's goods , when the wheels stuck in a rut .
Thereupon he began to pray to Hercules , without other exertion .
" Indolent fellow ! " said Hercules ; " you ask me to help you , but will not help yourself . "
So the Carter helped himself to so many of the most valuable goods that the horses easily ran away with the remainder .
Bolivian President Evo Morales says he will not agree to a U.S. request to return weapons and equipment in an ongoing disagreement over the naming of a new commander for Bolivia 's counterterrorism unit .
Mr. Morales responded Tuesday to a written request by the U.S. Embassy that objected to the new unit commander .
Mr. Morales has called the U.S. request blackmail .
U.S. officials have confirmed that Washington will cancel its counterterrorism programs in Bolivia after its decision last week to drop the country from its list of anti-terrorism partners .
These two tuba players walk past a bar ...
Well , it could happen !
President Bush has urged recipients of Medicare , the national health care program for seniors , to sign up for a new prescription drug program .
In a broadcast on U.S. radio Saturday , Mr. Bush said the prescription drug program is the greatest advance in health care for U.S. seniors since the introduction of Medicare itself 40 years ago .
He said the new benefit will help pay for preventative medication that costs far less than the price of treating a serious illness .
He said the days of making painful sacrifices to pay for prescription drugs are now over .
Mr. Bush also urged friends and family of the elderly to help their loved ones enroll , by gathering information , making a phone call , or helping them to fill out forms .
The former head of a self-proclaimed Serb republic in Croatia has gone on trial before The Hague tribunal on charges of war crimes and violating the laws and customs of war .
Milan Martic is accused of murder , torture and ethnic cleansing of Croats and Muslims in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina .
He is accused of actively supporting a criminal enterprise aimed at expelling Croats and Muslims from certain areas of the two countries with the goal of eventually including the regions in a future greater Serbia .
The indictment mentions that in 1995 , Mr. Martic ordered the bombardment by Serb artillery of downtown Zagreb , the Croatian capital .
The attacks caused seven deaths and numerous injuries .
At the time of the attacks , Mr. Martic was head of the self-proclaimed Republic of Serbian Krajina , a Serb entity opposing Croatia 's independence from Yugoslavia .
Officials in Nigeria say a bomb has exploded at a popular market inside an army barracks in the capital , Abuja .
Nigerian television is reporting that at least 30 people died in the explosion .
Police have not confirmed that figure .
Officials say the bomb went off inside Mammy market where people were eating and drinking to celebrate New Year 's Eve .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan blamed the bombing on the radical Islamist group Boko Haram .
The group claimed responsibility for Christmas Eve bomb attacks in the central city of Jos , and for attacking several churches in the northern city of Maiduguri .
More than 80 people died in those attacks .
Abuja was shaken by car bomb attacks in October .
Militants from the southern oil-producing Niger Delta claimed responsibility for those blasts .
New computing device will have web browsing , video-conferencing capabilities , ability to run on solar power , says HRD Minister Sibal India has created a prototype for a $ 35 touch-screen laptop that it hopes to make available to thousands of students .
India 's Human Resource Development Minister Kapil Sibal says the computing device will have web browsing and video-conferencing capabilities .
The iPad-like gadget will also have the ability to run on solar power .
The Linux-based computer , introduced by the Indian Institute of Technology and the Indian Institute of Science , should be available by 2011 .
Sibal says there are plans for the device to become even cheaper , with the price dropping to $ 20 and eventually $ 10 .
The inexpensive laptop is part of a nationwide Indian education initiative that also includes installing broadband capabilities on the nation 's more than 22,000 college campuses .
A group of Indian left wing activists has protested the planned entry of U.S. retailer Wal-Mart into India 's retail market .
About 100 demonstrators rallied outside Indian government offices in the capital , New Delhi , Thursday demanding Wal-Mart stay out of the country .
The world 's largest retailer is planning to set up a chain of stores in India as part of a joint venture with India 's Bharti Retail .
Wal-Mart 's vice chairman , Michael Duke , visited shopping malls in Mumbai today to learn more about the Indian retail sector .
He is to have talks on the joint venture with Bharti officials in New Delhi Friday .
India 's retail industry is dominated by small shopkeepers who fear that the entry of large retailers could put many of them out of business .
World oil prices rose to another record high after a government report showed a decline in U.S. stocks of gasoline Wednesday .
The price of crude oil for future delivery hit $ 64.35 cents a barrel after the U.S. Energy Department reported the sixth-straight week of falling gasoline stocks .
The report showed gasoline supplies falling last week by just over two million barrels to a total of 203.1 million barrels .
The closely watched report also showed an unexpected increase in crude oil supplies , prompting an initial decline in oil prices .
Oil prices are about 42 percent higher than they were a year ago .
Analysts say strong demand and worries about possible disruptions in supplies are key reasons for the higher prices .
A religious festival that drew millions of Shi'ite pilgrims to Iraq 's holy city of Karbala has ended without major incident .
Heavy security was in place Saturday for the festival of Shaaban .
It commemorates the birth of ninth-century Imam al-Mahdi al-Muntadar .
Violence elsewhere in Iraq killed at least 12 people .
Bomb attacks in Baghdad left at least two people dead .
And a gunman killed an employee of Iraq 's government-run newspaper in the capital .
On Friday , insurgents firing mortar rounds killed at least three Shi'ite pilgrims in a procession near Karbala .
Ethiopia 's main opposition coalition has reaffirmed its commitment to a non-violence pact with the government - a deal aimed at ending post-election violence in the country .
The Coalition for Unity and Democracy , or CUD , Sunday said it " unequivocally " accepts the terms of Friday 's deal with Ethiopia 's ruling party .
The pact was negotiated in an effort to stop recent violence sparked by last month 's election results .
At least 29 people were killed in a protest last week , when police opened fire on crowds alleging fraud during the vote .
Ethiopia 's government has accused the opposition of engineering the protests and breaking the non-violence pact .
Meanwhile , opposition officials say CUD leader , Hailu Shawel , remains under house arrest for a second day .
Officials say attempts to contact Mr. Hailu have failed because his telephone is not working .
Iran 's top nuclear official says his country will not abandon its uranium enrichment program , and that the Middle East could become even more unstable if Tehran is referred to the United Nations Security Council for its nuclear activities .
Speaking at an international nuclear technology conference in Tehran Saturday , Hassan Rowhani said if Iran is brought before the Security Council , it could cause problems for the regional energy market .
Iran is the second largest oil producer in OPEC .
Britain , France and Germany are in talks in with Iran , trying to negotiate a permanent end to its uranium enrichment program in exchange for a package of economic incentives .
But Mr. Rowhani complained that talks with the Europeans are moving slowly , and he remained adamant that Iran will never abandon its enrichment activities .
Yasser Arafat has been buried at his West Bank compound , as a sea of Palestinian mourners chanted " With our soul , with our blood , we will support you Abu Ammar . "
The 75-year-old leader , also known by his nom de guerre " Abu Ammar , " was laid to rest at the compound where he spent the last three-and-a-half years of his life as a virtual prisoner of Israel .
Palestinian masons worked through the night at the Muqataa compound to prepare his grave .
Tens of thousands of mourners waving Palestinian flags , and photos of their leader greeted the military helicopter as it brought his flag-draped coffin from a funeral in Cairo .
Arab royalty and heads-of-state , joined by European , American and other international officials , gathered for the service at a mosque near Cairo 's airport .
Mr. Arafat died early Thursday in a Paris hospital after a brief but undisclosed illness .
Iranian media is reporting that the country 's armed forces have staged a mock interception of six foreign planes since the start of a series of military exercises Tuesday .
The reports Wednesday quote a military exercise spokesman , General Hamid Arjangi , as saying " hypothetical enemy planes " crossed into Iranian air space but were turned back by Iranian fighter jets and artillery systems .
Official Iranian media blasted foreign press agencies that quoted state officials Wednesday as saying unknown foreign aircraft violated Iranian airspace .
Iran is in its second day of the its air force 's five-day military exercise to test the country 's ability to deter air strikes .
The war games are being held near nuclear facilities .
Iran says the exercises include tests of long-range missiles .
Tehran says it is the biggest exercise of its kind in the country .
Tehran conducts war games several times a year , often showcasing new military systems .
The World Health Organization is warning of the danger of small , undetected bird flu outbreaks in China , following the country 's third confirmed human fatality from the virus .
China announced on Thursday the latest bird flu victim was a 41-year-old woman in Fujian province who had died last week .
No outbreaks were reported in the area where she lived , and authorities are unsure how she contracted the virus .
The WHO 's spokesman in Beijing , Roy Wadia , said Friday many bird flu outbreaks among wild birds and poultry in China are small and hard to detect .
He said it is hard for China to alert the public when infected birds die in small numbers .
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao is ruling out plans to allow more democracy in China 's near future because he says the country must focus first on economic development .
In a speech published by China 's state-run media Tuesday , Mr. Wen said that China will remain in the primary state of socialism for a long time .
Mr. Wen did say , however , that China would develop its own democratic policies , and that a socialist system is not contradictory to those policies .
China 's annual parliamentary session is to open next week , with economic reform and social issues expected to be a core focus .
China 's economy has grown tremendously in recent years .
But leaders of China 's one-party system have carried out only limited democratic and political reforms .
Thousands of people in cities across Britain have rallied to protest Israeli military action in Lebanon .
A march through central London Saturday drew the largest numbers .
Police estimate that crowd at seven thousand people .
Many of them carried Lebanese flags .
British Muslim groups organized the protests .
The current Mideast crisis began July 12 , when Hezbollah guerrillas kidnapped two Israeli soldiers and killed eight in a raid .
Israel then launched an offensive on Hezbollah militias based in Lebanon .
More than 300 Lebanese and 34 Israelis have died in the violence .
Hundreds more have been wounded .
Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and founded Afghanistan in 1747 .
The country served as a buffer between the British and Russian Empires until it won independence from notional British control in 1919 .
A brief experiment in democracy ended in a 1973 coup and a 1978 Communist counter-coup .
The Soviet Union invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan Communist regime , touching off a long and destructive war .
The USSR withdrew in 1989 under relentless pressure by internationally supported anti-Communist mujahedin rebels .
A series of subsequent civil wars saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban , a hardline Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the country 's civil war and anarchy .
Following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington , D.C. , a US , Allied , and anti-Taliban Northern Alliance military action toppled the Taliban for sheltering Osama BIN LADIN .
The UN-sponsored Bonn Conference in 2001 established a process for political reconstruction that included the adoption of a new constitution , a presidential election in 2004 , and National Assembly elections in 2005 .
In December 2004 , Hamid KARZAI became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan and the National Assembly was inaugurated the following December .
KARZAI was re-elected in August 2009 for a second term .
Despite gains toward building a stable central government , a resurgent Taliban and continuing provincial instability - particularly in the south and the east - remain serious challenges for the Afghan Government .
The Lebanese army Tuesday agreed to a ceasefire request from Islamic militants to allow their families to leave a Palestinian refugee camp where the two factions have been fighting for months .
The mediators , from the Palestinian Cleric 's Association , say Fatah al-Islam asked them late Monday for help in arranging a truce in the fighting at Nahr al-Bared camp near the northern port city of Tripoli .
In the past , the clerics ' group has tried but failed to mediate between the militants and the army , which is demanding an unconditional surrender of remaining fighters .
Most of the camp 's refugees have fled since fighting began in May .
Also Tuesday Lebanon 's military says a soldier was killed during fighting at Nahr al-Bared .
At least 200 people , including 141 soldiers , have been killed in the battles .
The U.S. State Department has labeled al-Qaida-inspired Fatah al-Islam a terrorist organization .
Chad , part of France 's African holdings until 1960 , endured three decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990 .
The government eventually drafted a democratic constitution and held flawed presidential elections in 1996 and 2001 .
In 1998 , a rebellion broke out in northern Chad , which has sporadically flared up despite several peace agreements between the government and the rebels .
In 2005 , new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing attacks into eastern Chad despite signing peace agreements in December 2006 and October 2007 .
Power remains in the hands of an ethnic minority .
In June 2005 , President Idriss DEBY held a referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won another controversial election in 2006 .
Sporadic rebel campaigns continued throughout 2006 and 2007 .
The capital experienced a significant rebel threat in early 2008 .
Al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden has warned the European Union that there will be a strong reaction against cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed published in European newspapers .
In an audio recording posted to an al-Qaida-affiliated Web site late Wednesday , a voice said to be bin-Laden 's described the publishing of the cartoons as part of a new crusade against Islam that involved Pope Benedict - head of the Catholic Church .
Satirical cartoons featuring Islam 's Prophet Mohammed were published in Danish newspapers in 2006 , sparking mass riots in Islamic nations worldwide .
Bin-Laden 's latest recorded statement , entitled " The response will be what you see , not what you hear " comes on the fifth anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
The message is bin Laden 's first public statement since late last year .
The Sri Lankan military says six soldiers have been killed and another one wounded by a land mine explosion in the country 's volatile north .
The military says the blast , blamed on Tamil Tiger rebels , hit the soldiers Sunday as they were transporting meals to their colleagues in Jaffna , some 400 kilometers north of Colombo .
The attack prompted Scandinavian monitors overseeing Sri Lanka 's truce with Tamil Tiger rebels to warn of " irreparable deterioration " of security in the island nation .
The monitoring mission appealed to all sides to calm the situation before it escalates further .
Tension has been mounting in Sri Lanka since Tamil Tiger leader V. Prabhakaran warned that the rebels will intensify their struggle for a Tamil homeland next year if grievances with the government are not resolved .
A Palestinian suicide bomber has blown himself up at an Israeli checkpoint in the northern West Bank , killing one Israeli soldier and at least two Palestinians .
Israeli officials say the bomber struck Thursday , after stepping from a taxi to face soldiers at a makeshift checkpoint near the Israeli border .
Four other Israelis and several Palestinians were wounded .
Israeli authorities said they believed the bomber intended to strike in Tel Aviv .
The bombing occurred as Israeli warplanes and artillery hit targets in the northern Gaza Strip , in a campaign Israel says is aimed at stopping militants from firing rockets into Israel .
Meanwhile , Palestinian security forces continue to hunt for a British human rights activist kidnapped along with her parents Wednesday in southern Gaza .
Authorities say there has been no claim of responsibility and no ransom demands .
Indonesia says it will monitor Islamic boarding schools as part of its effort to fight militant violence and suicide bombings .
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said Thursday that the religious affairs minister will monitor all Islamic boarding schools .
The vice president said he believes there are only a few schools that could be considered possible breeding grounds for terrorists , but he declined to name them .
However , the Al-Mukmin and Al-Islam schools on the island of Java had previously come under scrutiny after several terrorists were found to have studied at them .
The former students include militants convicted in the 2002 Bali bombings and the 2003 bombing of the Marriott hotel in Jakarta .
At least three car bombs have exploded in Baghdad , wounding at least six people .
Iraqi police say the bombs went off almost simultaneously near a market in the southern part of the city .
The violence occurred as Iraqi politicians continued in their efforts to form a new government .
Shi'ite , Sunni and Kurdish politicians have been unable to agree on a cabinet .
Pressure has been mounting on Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari , a Shi'ite , to give up his post .
Sunni politicians say Mr. al-Jaafari is a divisive and ineffective leader .
The United States has been pressuring Iraqi politicians to form a new government , which Washington believes will help stem the violence .
Speaking Friday in northern England , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the United States had probably made thousands of errors in Iraq , but she defended the decision to overthrow Saddam Hussein .
Every year on the last Friday in April Americans observe National Arbor Day .
Tree plantings and other events are held all across the United States to focus attention on the importance of trees in our communities and on our planet .
Sponsored by the National Arbor Day Foundation , a non-profit group founded in 1872 , Arbor Day somewhat overshadows another of the Foundation 's national projects .
It is called the " Tree City USA " program , and it recognizes communities that preserve , protect , and defend their trees every day of the year .
VOA 's George Dwyer recently visited a " tree city " just outside Washington .
At least 10 people are dead after Typhoon Conson struck the main Philippine island Luzon Wednesday .
The typhoon struck the capital city Manila and surrounding areas Wednesday morning , carrying maximum wind gusts of 120 kilometers an hour .
Electricity was knocked out throughout Luzon , with tree branches and other debris left scattered across rain-swept streets .
The dead include four people who drowned and two others killed by falling trees .
At least 40 people are missing , including 11 fishermen last spotted off the coast of the central island Catandunes .
Typhoon Conson headed out over the South China Sea after striking Luzon .
During a meeting of the government 's National Disaster Coordinating Council Wednesday , new Philippine President Benigno Aquino scolded the government 's weather bureau for failing to predict the storm would hit Manila .
The eldest daughter of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has been taken into custody in Santiago , after returning from an unsuccessful bid for asylum in the United States .
Officials say Lucia Pinochet Hiriart was detained at the airport in Santiago Saturday on arrival from Washington .
Like her mother , father and several siblings , she faces tax evasion charges linked to $ 27 million the family allegedly hid in overseas bank accounts .
Pinochet Hiriart fled Chile Sunday , a day before her mother and four siblings were detained there .
They were freed on bail a day later .
In addition to the tax fraud charges , her father , Augusto Pinochet , also faces human rights charges related to his rule of Chile from 1973 to 1990 .
A Republican-led U.S. Senate committee has rejected a proposed investigation of the Bush administration 's domestic surveillance program .
The Senate Intelligence Committee voted along party lines Tuesday to reject the proposal by Senator Jay Rockefeller , a Democrat .
Chairman Pat Roberts said the committee agreed to create a subcommittee for " enhanced oversight " of the program , in which the government monitors phone conversations and e-mails between people in the United States and suspected terrorists abroad without court approval .
Also Tuesday , the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill extending the anti-terrorism law known as the U.S.A .
Patriot Act , which was first enacted after the September 11 , 2001 attacks in the United States .
The Patriot Act expands the government 's power to obtain private records , conduct wiretaps and share information between agencies .
Critics say it threatens civil liberties .
U.S. officials are downplaying media reports that Washington is investigating possible Iranian involvement in an attack in Iraq that killed five U.S. soldiers .
At the State Department , a senior U.S. official said he does not know anything to substantiate the conclusion that Iran was involved , and called the idea a " supposition . "
White House spokesman Tony Snow said he would not comment on what it called " speculation " about Iranian involvement in the attack last Saturday in Karbala .
The New York Times and CNN had reported that the Defense Department is trying to determine whether Iranians or Iranian-trained operatives carried out the attack .
The U.S. military has said the attack was well coordinated , with assailants dressed in U.S. military-style uniforms and driving vehicles similar to those used by U.S. troops .
Pakistani officials say the senior officer heading the probe into last week 's suicide attack on former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has withdrawn from the case .
The home secretary of Sindh province , Ghulam Muhammad Mohtarem , says Manzur Mughal stepped down after Ms. Bhutto accused him of involvement in the alleged torture of her husband while in police custody in 1999 .
Ms. Bhutto survived an assassination attempt last Thursday when suicide attackers struck near her convoy as it drove through the packed streets of Karachi , the capital of Sindh province , hours after she returned to Pakistan , ending years of political exile .
The twice-serving former prime minister has said extremist elements in Pakistan 's political establishment were behind the attack , which killed 139 people .
Investigators have said they suspect two suicide bombers were responsible for the attack .
Experts studying the flooding of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina say the breach of key floodwalls might have been caused by soft soil under the walls , a problem the Army Corps of Engineers had been warned about .
Engineers from the American Society of Civil Engineers and the University of California at Berkeley said Friday there was no evidence that the floodwaters surged over the tops of the floodwalls at 17th Street or London Avenue Canals , as previously thought .
Instead , they said , soft soil may have given way underneath the walls - a danger a contracting company pointed out to the Army Corps of Engineers in the early 1990s .
In one section of the 17th Street canal , a levee embankment had moved more than 10 meters from its original spot .
The experts also said they found at least 10 breaches and possibly more in the walls .
Police on horseback charged into crowds of angry British students demonstrating in central London on Thursday to protest university tuition hikes .
Lawmakers inside Parliament voted in favor of a controversial bill raising university fees in England , part of the government 's larger austerity plan .
Government officials have said the increases , which triple the current fees , are necessary to maintain the high quality of education in universities .
Riot police wielding batons scuffled with some students in front of London 's Houses of Parliament as they pushed up against a police barricade .
Students threw sticks at police and set off smoke bombs in front of the horses .
Television coverage showed at least one demonstrator being handcuffed , and one police officer on the ground .
It was the latest in a series of student protests against the fee hike , which would raise the yearly bill to about $ 14,000 .
The new head of the U.S. Federal Reserve , Ben Bernanke , was formally sworn in to office Wednesday morning in Washington .
Bernanke succeeds Alan Greenspan and is expected to continue his fight to contain inflation .
Bernanke heads the committee that sets the key U.S. interest rate .
Tuesday , on Greenspan 's last day as chairman , the committee hiked interest rates one quarter of a percent in an effort to cool the economy and fend off inflation .
Fed officials said they remain concerned about high energy prices and worry that busier factories and low unemployment could raise production costs and increase inflation .
Most analysts expect Bernanke and his colleagues to raise interest rates at least one more time at their next meeting on March 28 .
The Pacific coast of Nicaragua was settled as a Spanish colony from Panama in the early 16th century .
Independence from Spain was declared in 1821 and the country became an independent republic in 1838 .
Britain occupied the Caribbean Coast in the first half of the 19th century , but gradually ceded control of the region in subsequent decades .
Violent opposition to governmental manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979 .
Nicaraguan aid to leftist rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s .
After losing free and fair elections in 1990 , 1996 , and 2001 , former Sandinista President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra was elected president in 2006 .
The 2008 municipal elections were marred by widespread irregularities .
Nicaragua 's infrastructure and economy - hard hit by the earlier civil war and by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - are slowly being rebuilt , but democratic institutions have been weakened under the ORTEGA administration .
Strategically important , Gibraltar was reluctantly ceded to Great Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht ; the British garrison was formally declared a colony in 1830 .
In a referendum held in 1967 , Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain a British dependency .
The subsequent granting of autonomy in 1969 by the UK led to Spain closing the border and severing all communication links .
A series of talks were held by the UK and Spain between 1997 and 2002 on establishing temporary joint sovereignty over Gibraltar .
In response to these talks , the Gibraltar Government called a referendum in late 2002 in which the majority of citizens voted overwhelmingly against any sharing of sovereignty with Spain .
Since late 2004 , tripartite talks among Spain , the UK , and Gibraltar have been held with the aim of cooperatively resolving problems that affect the local population , and work continues on cooperation agreements in areas such as taxation and financial services ; communications and maritime security ; policy , legal and customs services ; environmental protection ; and education and visa services .
Throughout 2009 , a dispute over Gibraltar 's claim to territorial waters extending out three miles gave rise to periodic non-violent maritime confrontations between Spanish and UK naval patrols .
A new noncolonial constitution came into effect in 2007 , and the European Court of First Instance recognized Gibraltar 's right to regulate its own tax regime in December 2008 , but the UK retains responsibility for defense , foreign relations , internal security , and financial stability .
Many commuters in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro were stranded Friday as the city cut back bus service to curb deadly gang attacks on public transportation .
City officials took the measure after gangs set fire to at least six buses Thursday , burning seven people alive .
Gang members also attacked police stations .
Two policemen , seven alleged gang members , and two other civilians were reported killed , in addition to the victims on the bus .
Police said the motive for the apparently coordinated attacks was not immediately clear .
Some officials said it may be linked to anti-drug efforts in the city .
Some 200 people in Sao Paulo died earlier this year in a series of attacks by criminal gangs .
Police in Indian Kashmir say a Muslim woman has died when a bomb she was carrying exploded .
A militant group claimed she was a suicide bomber who killed or injured five soldiers , but police denied there were any casualties .
The separatist group , Jaish-e-Mohammad , called the Srinagar-based Current News Service Thursday to say she blew up an army vehicle , killing five soldiers .
A spokesman identified the attacker as Hafsa , a member of the women 's wing of the group .
While Kashmiri militants use women members for transporting arms and explosives , they have never used them as suicide bombers .
Muslim separatists in Indian Kashmir are fighting for an independent Kashmir or its merger with neighboring Pakistan .
The fight against Indian rule has killed tens of thousands of people since it began in 1989 .
A prison riot in Venezuela has killed seven inmates and wounded 11 more .
Prison officials said the riot broke out late Monday , as inmates battled for control of cell blocks inside the prison west of Caracas .
It is unclear whether prison authorities have quelled the riot .
Violence is common in Venezuela 's overcrowded prisons , where about 20,000 inmates live in facilities built to hold 15,000 people .
The party of Liberian presidential candidate George Weah has called for a re-run of Tuesday 's run-off vote , charging electoral fraud .
The call comes as Liberians await official confirmation of former Finance Minister Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf 's apparent victory .
With 99 percent of the votes counted , Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf has won about 60 percent of the vote to 40 percent for Mr. Weah , a former football ( soccer ) star .
Final results are expected on Tuesday .
The National Election Commission says it will hear Mr. Weah 's complaints of election irregularities on Wednesday .
International observers say there is no evidence of widespread fraud in the run-off .
Saturday in the capital , Monrovia , hundreds of Mr. Weah 's supporters gathered in front of United Nations headquarters to demand a new election .
U.N. peacekeepers dispersed the crowd peacefully .
Saudi authorities say they have arrested five suspected terrorists linked to a February attack on the world 's largest oil facility , located in the eastern part of the kingdom .
A Saudi Interior Ministry statement said the militants are linked to the foiled assault on the Abqaiq compound February 24 .
Police said militants tried to drive two vehicles loaded with explosives past barricades and into the oil facility , which handles about two-thirds of the country 's crude .
Authorities said the attack failed when two guards opened fire and the attack vehicles exploded .
Two guards and two militants were killed .
The Al-Qaida terror network claimed responsibility for that attack .
In late March , Saudi Arabia said it had arrested 40 suspected militants , including eight allegedly linked to the February attack .
The United States is recalling to active duty several thousand Marines to bolster American military units in Iraq and Afghanistan .
A military spokesman says the reservists are men and women who returned to civilian life after previous active-duty service .
They will fill critical shortages among military-police units , intelligence and communications specialists .
President Bush issued an order authorizing the involuntary callup .
The Marines Corps has 35,000 reserve troops with time remaining on eight-year commitments made when they enlisted .
Mr. Bush 's order limits the number of those who can be recalled to 2,500 at a time .
Meanwhile , in Iraq , U.S. military officials report a declining trend in violence this month in Baghdad .
But insurgents carried out more attacks Wednesday , including a suicide bombing in Mosul that killed a woman and wounded eight policemen .
The United States is warning that it would be a major international concern if North Korea launched a long-range ballistic missile .
Reports by Japanese media say North Korea may be preparing to test-fire such a weapon .
A U.S. State Department spokesman said Friday that a missile launch would also violate an agreement reached in September at the last round of six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program .
On Friday Japanese broadcaster NHK quoted unidentified South Korean government officials as saying that satellite pictures show signs of activity at a launch site in northeastern North Korea .
Japan 's Defense Agency quickly responded , saying that Tokyo does not believe a launch is imminent .
However , Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso told a parliamentary committee that a launch would be no surprise .
In 1998 , North Korea surprised Japan and governments around the world by firing a long-range missile over Japan into the Pacific Ocean .
An opposition leader in Belarus has been released after being detained trying to enter a political convention in Minsk .
Police officials say presidential hopeful Alexander Kozulin was detained while trying to register to attend a political gathering .
Witnesses say Mr. Kozulin was beaten and driven to a police station where he was detained .
He was later released , but prosecutors say he may face charges of hooliganism for allegedly shoving a police officer and damaging a picture of President Alexander Lukashenko .
Mr. Kozulin is one of three people challenging Mr. Lukashenko in elections scheduled for March 19 .
The United States has criticized Mr. Lukashenko , calling him Europe 's last dictator .
The Belarusian leader has , in turn , railed against what he called Western attempts to destabilize his administration .
With a well-developed infrastructure , a free-enterprise economy , generally pro-investment policies , and strong export industries , Thailand enjoyed solid growth from 2000 to 2007 - averaging more than 4 % per year - as it recovered from the Asian financial crisis of 1997 - 98 .
Thai exports - mostly machinery and electronic components , agricultural commodities , and jewelry - continue to drive the economy , accounting for more than half of GDP .
The global financial crisis of 2008 - 09 severely cut Thailand 's exports , with most sectors experiencing double-digit drops .
In 2009 , the economy contracted 2.2 % .
In 2010 , Thailand 's economy expanded 7.6 % , its fastest pace since 1995 , as exports rebounded from their depressed 2009 level .
Antigovernment protests during March-May and the country 's polarized political situation had - at most - a temporary impact on business and consumer confidence .
Although tourism was hit hard during the protests , its quick recovery helped boost consumer confidence to new highs .
Moreover , business and investor sentiment remained buoyant as Thailand 's stock market grew almost 5 % during the three-month period .
The economy probably will continue to experience high grow well into 2011 .
The leader of Northern Ireland 's leading Protestant party is warning that the peace process in the British province is at risk unless the Irish Republican Army takes immediate steps toward disarming .
Democratic Unionist Party leader Ian Paisley said he is amazed that with only days ahead of the British and Irish government deadline for agreement , the Catholic IRA has not contacted monitors who are to oversee the group 's disarmament .
He spoke after talks in Belfast with the monitors .
Mr. Paisley said any progress on restoring Northern Ireland 's power-sharing government requires proof of IRA action instead of continued deception .
Meanwhile , Jerry Adams , the leader of the IRA 's political arm , Sinn Fein , expressed doubt whether Mr. Paisley is ready for agreement .
Britain suspended Northern Ireland 's power sharing government in 2002 amid charges of IRA spying on provincial officials .
Malawi 's President , Bingu wa Mutharika , says a motion in parliament to impeach him will not stop his campaign against corruption .
Addressing a church service Sunday , Mr. wa Mutharika said there are those in parliament who want to remove him from office because of his anti-corruption campaign .
But he said no threat of impeachment would stop his so-called " zero tolerance " policy .
On Friday , the speaker of parliament , Louis Chimango , introduced an impeachment motion charging him with ignoring the constitution in setting up his own party and with misuse of public funds .
Mr. wa Mutharika , a former economist , has won praise from donor nations and aid agencies for his efforts to adopt economic reforms and stamp out corruption .
United Nations agencies say it will cost up to $ 50 million to clean up an oil spill caused by Israel 's bombing of a Lebanese power plant last month .
U.N. officials met experts from Lebanon , Greece , Syria , Turkey and the European Union Thursday in Athens to discuss the 15,000-ton oil slick .
Authorities say four weeks of fighting following the spill kept them from assessing the damage , but they say this week 's cease-fire makes it possible to deal with it .
Officials warn the spill has already caused severe damage to the coastline and may also have badly affected the region 's marine life .
Taleban rebels in Afghanistan have launched attacks in the lead-up to Sunday 's parliamentary elections , in an effort to disrupt the vote .
Government officials say security forces arrested 20 suspected rebels Saturday , who were trying to blow up a large dam in southern Afghanistan .
Late Friday , three police officers were killed when Taleban guerillas ambushed their patrol near the capital .
In a separate attack , rebels ambushed police as they patrolled the main Kabul - Kandahar highway .
Seven rebels were killed in the ensuing firefight .
Seven national assembly candidates and several poll workers have also been the victims of election-related violence .
The Taleban have called for an election boycott , threatening attacks on foreign troops , but not on voters .
Israel says the population of its West Bank settlements has grown , even as the country withdraws from the Gaza Strip .
The Israeli Interior Ministry says 246,000 Jewish settlers lived in the West Bank as of June , 2005 , about 10,000 more than a year earlier .
A spokesman said the increase resulted from births and an influx of new residents , but he could not give a breakdown for each figure .
Palestinians claim the West Bank and east Jerusalem as part of a future Palestinian state .
Israel captured the territories in the 1967 Mideast war .
Meanwhile , an Israeli woman has died after setting herself on fire last week to protest Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza .
On Tuesday , Israeli troops finished evacuating all 21 Jewish settlements in Gaza and four in the West Bank under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's plan to " disengage " from the Palestinians .
A spokesman for an Iraqi court says the trial of a journalist who threw his shoes at U.S. President George Bush has been postponed .
Muntazer al-Zaidi was scheduled to go on trial Wednesday for the December 14 incident in Baghdad .
He has been charged with assaulting a foreign leader , and faces up to 15 years in jail if convicted .
The Iraqi television journalist threw his shoes at Mr. Bush as the outgoing U.S. president stood next to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki at a news conference .
Mr. Bush ducked his head and narrowly missed being hit .
Mr. Maliki 's office says Zaidi has confessed to throwing the shoes on the orders of a militant known for beheading people .
The militant who allegedly masterminded the incident has not been identified .
The journalist 's family says he was coerced into writing the confession letter .
The State Department has issued a public announcement alerting Americans to recent terrorist attacks in Egypt .
Egyptian soldiers surrounded site where two women opened fire at tour bus in Cairo , Saturday Wednesday 's announcement comes less than a week after terrorists staged two separate attacks in Cairo - one outside the Egyptian museum and the other on a bus carrying tourists .
All three assailants were killed and at least nine people were wounded .
The incidents were part of a string of attacks on tourist sites in Egypt since 2004 .
The State Department says American citizens should maintain heightened awareness while traveling in Egypt .
A security scare rippled through the embassies of Japan , Thailand and Germany in Malaysia Tuesday after what police called suspicious packages were received at the facilities .
Officials in Kuala Lumpur say Japan 's embassy was evacuated after receiving a package containing a liquid substance .
Kuala Lumpur Police Chief Mustafa Abdullah said the liquid appeared to be a harmless oil .
The embassy has since been given the all clear .
Mr. Mustafa said similar packages were sent to the Thai and German embassies .
It is not immediately clear if the packages were part of a hoax .
President Bush says he is starting the process of picking the cabinet and White House staff for his second term in office .
Mr. Bush , spending the weekend at the presidential retreat , Camp David , in Maryland , did not indicate what changes he is considering for his team .
U.S. media reports , however , say Attorney General John Ashcroft could depart before Mr. Bush is sworn in for a second term in January .
Others reported to be considering leaving include Secretary of State Colin Powell and Homeland Security Chief Tom Ridge .
Also Friday , Iowa , the final undeclared state from Tuesday 's elections , announced Mr. Bush won the state 's popular vote .
With the addition of the midwestern state of Iowa 's seven electoral votes , the president won 286 electoral votes to Senator John Kerry 's 252 .
France 's oldest World War One veteran has died at the age of 111 .
Maurice Floquet died at his home in southern France on the eve of November 11 , the 88th anniversary of the armistice that ended the war .
His death leaves France with only four living veterans of the conflict .
Floquet joined the French infantry and fought in a number of battles including the Somme .
Saturday , French President Jacques Chirac is to lead the traditional Armistice Day ceremonies in Paris .
One of the four remaining World War I veterans will join the French leader at the Arc de Triomphe commemorations .
A privately-owned Kuwaiti airline is offering free flights to Kuwaiti women who want to return home to vote in parliamentary elections .
The elections are the first in Kuwait that do not exclude women .
Marwan Boodai , the chairman of Jazeera Airways says the airline wants to make sure that Kuwaiti women currently overseas can exercise their new right to vote .
Elections are scheduled for June 29 .
Kuwait passed a law last year granting women the right to vote and run for office .
Iraqi police say a double-bombing Wednesday in central Baghdad has killed at least six people and wounded at least 41 others .
Police say a car bomb went off near a traffic police station a few kilometers from where British Prime Minister Gordon Brown met with Iraqi officials .
Moments later , a second bomb exploded nearby .
On Monday , Iraqi police said a bomb killed at least eight policemen at a checkpoint west of Baghdad .
Saddam Hussein has told the court trying him for alleged crimes against humanity that he has been beaten and tortured while in U.S. custody .
Saddam says Americans beat him " on every place " of his body and that he has the marks to prove it .
He made the torture allegations during proceedings which resumed earlier Wednesday .
He spoke after being largely quiet and calm during witness testimony about the 1982 torture and massacre of 140 Shi'ite Muslims in Dujail .
One witness said guards dripped melted plastic on detainees and administered electric shocks .
The deposed Iraqi dictator and seven co-defendants are accused of ordering or carrying out the torture and massacre after Saddam survived an assassination attempt there .
The new U.N. Special Envoy to Afghanistan visited the Afghan capital , Kabul , Friday , and vowed to bring changes to help with rebuilding efforts in the war-torn country .
Former Norwegian Ambassador Kai Eide promised to improve coordination with the Afghan government and international donors on aid and development efforts .
A lack of coordination has led to numerous failed reconstruction projects , but a new U.N. resolution empowers Eide to directly coordinate such support .
Eide said the government of President Hamid Karzai asked for better coordination long ago .
He promised the United Nations would do a better job than it has in the past .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says he will ask the Palestinian Authority 's current prime minister , Ahmed Qureia , to stay on to form a new government .
Addressing his supporters in Ramallah Saturday after he was sworn into office , Mr. Abbas expressed confidence in the prime minister and said they would consult together on forming a new government .
Mr. Qureia became prime minister after Mr. Abbas resigned in September 2003 , in a dispute with Yasser Arafat .
A Protestant paramilitary group in Northern Ireland says it has ordered its armed units to " stand down , " effective Monday , in line with the Irish Republican Army 's announcement last month that it would disarm .
The Loyalist Volunteer Force , which supports British rule in Northern Ireland , broke away from the larger Ulster Volunteer Force in 1996 in a dispute over the Irish peace process .
The LVF announced Sunday it had settled its feud with the larger group , a feud which claimed four lives in recent months .
The Irish Republican Army renounced violence in July , and destroyed its arms in September .
Indonesia 's president , Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , has declared the island of Sumatra a national disaster area because of Sunday 's devastating earthquake and tsunami waves .
Emergency officials said the worst-hit area was the northeastern province of Aceh , the scene of decades of separatist violence .
Most of Indonesia 's victims - some 3,000 people - died in the provincial capital , Banda Aceh .
Officials say many of the dead were children swept away in floodwaters .
The toll is expected to rise as more bodies are recovered .
The floods overturned cars and trucks , and bodies were seen caught in the branches of trees .
Most lines of communication to the city have been down since the quake .
Thousands have fled homes that were damaged or destroyed by the floods .
The former head of the U.S. central bank says in a new memoir that he believes the Iraq war is largely about oil .
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan writes in his memoir to be released on Monday that he is " saddened that it is politically inconvenient to acknowledge what everyone knows - the Iraq war is largely about oil . "
Defense Secretary Robert Gates disagreed in a televised interivew on ABC 's This Week Sunday , saying the war is really about stability in the Middle East and trying to prevent rogue regimes from developing weapons of mass destruction .
Greenspan headed the U.S. central bank from 1987 until 2006 , serving under four presidents .
He earned praise for policies that many said encouraged the American economic boom in the 1990s .
Some of the information for this report provided by AP and AFP .
U.S. pro-immigrant groups are calling for a nationwide boycott May 1 to pressure Congress into granting illegal aliens the right to gain citizenship .
On that Monday , immigrants and supporters of immigrants ' rights plan to stay home from work or school and refrain from buying or selling anything .
The plans come after immigrants and immigrants ' rights supporters held demonstrations across the nation in recent weeks .
Saturday in New York City , more than 10,000 people rallied outside the U.S. immigration office .
The demonstrators say immigrants should be recognized for significant contributions to the U.S. economy .
Those marches and rallies come as the Senate discusses a proposed guest-worker program President Bush has strongly endorsed .
The House of Representatives has passed legislation that would make it a felony to be an illegal immigrant , and heavily penalize companies hiring them .
The death of a pope immediately sets into motion a series of historic rituals for the mourning of the death of the leader of the Roman Catholic church .
To verify the pope 's death , the head of the Sacred College of Cardinals stands over the deceased and calls the pontiff by his baptismal name three times .
If there is no response , he announces the death and arranges for the Papal ring , known as the ring of the fisherman , and the papal seal both to be broken .
Upon news of the pontiff 's death , church bells in Rome and throughout Italy begin tolling .
The shutters on the pope 's private apartment and the massive bronze doors beneath a portico off Saint Peter 's Square are closed .
The cardinal then makes preparations for the Papal funeral rites and the traditional nine days of mourning .
A MAN had two dogs : a Hound , trained to assist him in his sports , and a Housedog , taught to watch the house .
When he returned home after a good day 's sport , he always gave the Housedog a large share of his spoil .
The Hound , feeling much aggrieved at this , reproached his companion , saying , " It is very hard to have all this labor , while you , who do not assist in the chase , luxuriate on the fruits of my exertions . "
The Housedog replied , " Do not blame me , my friend , but find fault with the master , who has not taught me to labor , but to depend for subsistence on the labor of others . "
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents .
Venezuela President Hugo Chavez signed a pact with a group of predominately leftist mayors in Nicaragua on Tuesday to provide their communities with cheap oil .
Under the accord , Venezuela will supply oil to the Nicaraguan towns at favorable terms .
While signing the agreement with the mayors at Venezuela 's presidential palace , Mr. Chavez also threw his weight behind leftist candidate and Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega in the upcoming Nicaraguan presidential election .
The oil deal is similar to ones Mr. Chavez has signed with other Latin American and Caribbean countries .
Mr. Chavez indicated Tuesday that the Nicaraguan pact is part of a larger agenda to provide an alternative to trade agreements with the United States .
Thousands of British Muslims have marched Saturday in London to protest cartoons in Danish newspapers depicting the Prophet Muhammad as a terrorist .
Reports from the scene say the London march was peaceful and that demonstrators appealed for calm .
Officials say Muslim protests also planned in Paris and other European cities .
Meanwhile , the Danish foreign ministry says it has temporarily pulled diplomats from their posts in Iran , Indonesia and Syria after receiving threats .
The Danish embassy in Syria was ransacked last week by protesters angered by the cartoons .
Local media reports say Muslim demonstrations continued Saturday in Indonesia and Bangladesh .
Protests were held Friday in cities across the Middle East as well as in India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Malaysia , Venezuela and Kenya .
Afghan police say suspected Taleban fighters have killed five police officers in an ambush in southern Afghanistan .
Authorities said Wednesday , the attacks occurred late Tuesday in Helmand province .
The incident comes one day after Afghan police killed two suspected Taleban fighters , including a Taleban commander , during a gunbattle in the same province .
Twelve other fighters were arrested .
Helmand province has been the scene of several clashes in recent weeks .
In late October , at least eight Afghan police were killed in an ambush there .
Afghan officials say international and Afghan security sweeps Friday and Saturday across the country killed at least 25 insurgents .
In the Sangin district of Helmand , troops killed 10 insurgents and captured a high-level Taliban commander named Mullah Mohammad Hassan .
Officials say Hassan was involved with attacks against troops in the northern part of the province .
Eight more militants were killed and two others captured in the Surkh Rod district of Nangahar province .
The government said several more were killed in security raids over the past 24 hours in various parts of the country , including at least seven in northern Baghlan province .
In the eastern Ghazni province , meanwhile , the Interior Ministry says insurgents killed five Afghan guards on Friday while they were escorting a convoy of oil tankers .
The ministry said its forces killed six insurgents who had been involved in the attack .
Russia is voicing surprise at the White House move to withdraw a bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation agreement from consideration by Congress .
The Russian Foreign Ministry , in a statement Tuesday , called President George Bush 's move to withdraw the deal from congressional consideration wrong , and in Moscow 's words , " politicized . "
Mr. Bush sent a withdrawal message to Congress Monday , in response to Russia 's military incursion into Georgia last month .
He called Russia 's action " incompatible with peaceful relations with its sovereign and democratic neighbor . "
The president said he could re-submit the deal to Congress for its approval , if circumstances change in Georgia .
Moscow and Washington signed the nuclear cooperation deal earlier this year .
It would have allowed U.S. and Russian companies to enter joint ventures in the nuclear industry .
Business analysts say the deal could have been worth billions of dollars .
French officials say European Union defense ministers are moving towards a plan to phase out the EU peacekeeping mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Several French diplomats said Wednesday that a majority of EU ministers now support scaling back the EU operation in Bosnia .
The officials spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity after they sat in on an informal meeting of defense ministers in the French city of Deauville .
France currently holds the rotating EU presidency .
A formal decision on the matter is not expected before November 10 , when defense ministers hold a formal summit in Brussels .
The diplomats say the present EU force will likely be replaced by a civilian operation .
NATO peacekeepers were deployed to Bosnia as part of the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords that ended the fighting in the former Yugoslavia .
NATO turned over peacekeeping duties to the European Union in 2004 .
Turkey 's prime minister says he will quit politics if his ruling Justice and Development party does not win enough seats to form a government alone in Sunday 's elections .
Recep Tayyip Erdogan made the statement Tuesday during a campaign appearance in southern Turkey .
Opinion polls indicate his ruling party will win Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Erdogan also challenged his political rivals to make a similar pledge .
In other news , unidentified gunmen killed a Turkish parliamentary candidate in Istanbul .
Turkish media say 42-year-old businessman Tuncay Seyranlioglu was shot in his car late Monday .
Three other people were wounded .
The motive for the attack was not immediately known .
Seyranlioglu was running as an independent in Sunday 's elections .
An Israeli military court has acquitted an officer of responsibility in the shooting death of a British journalist in the Gaza Strip two years ago .
The army decided last month not to charge the unnamed officer in James Miller 's death , but said he might be disciplined on lesser charges .
Thursday , he was cleared on all counts .
James Miller was making a documentary on the lives of Palestinian children when he was killed .
Video footage of the incident taken by his crew , show him waving a white flag and identifying himself as a journalist as he approached an Israeli armored vehicle in the dark , just before shots rang out .
The footage was shown to the court and later included in a documentary called Death in Gaza .
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat , perched in a tree and held it in her beak .
A Fox , seeing this , longed to possess the meat himself , and by a wily stratagem succeeded .
" How handsome is the Crow , " he exclaimed , in the beauty of her shape and in the fairness of her complexion !
Oh , if her voice were only equal to her beauty , she would deservedly be considered the Queen of Birds ! "
This he said deceitfully ; but the Crow , anxious to refute the reflection cast upon her voice , set up a loud caw and dropped the flesh .
The Fox quickly picked it up , and thus addressed the Crow : " My good Crow , your voice is right enough , but your wit is wanting . "
In National Basketball Association ( NBA ) action Thursday , Tracy McGrady scored 34 points to lead the Houston Rockets over the Cleveland Cavaliers , 90-81 in Cleveland .
It was the fourth straight game in which McGrady scored more than 30 points and the team 's second-straight road win .
LeBron James led Cleveland with 32 points in what was the fourth loss at home for the Cavaliers this season .
In Thursday 's other NBA game , Indiana 's Stephen Jackson had 27 points , five rebounds and three assists to lead the Pacers to a 99-89 victory over the Golden State Warriors .
Austin Croshere added 17 points , nine rebounds , two assists and two steals for Indiana .
Mike Dunleavy led Golden State with 19 points .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the Sudanese government has not met two of the most important demands of the Security Council on the Darfur conflict - to disarm militias and arrest those who have committed atrocities in the region .
Mr. Annan says violence in Darfur has increased substantially over the last six months , including attacks on civilians and aid workers .
He says the number of people now affected by the war is 2.3 million , more than one-third of Darfur 's population .
His comments are in a report to the U.N. Security Council released on Monday .
Mr. Annan said pro-government Arab militia are carrying out " atrocious crimes on a massive scale . "
He also blamed Darfur rebels , who he says have increased atttacks on government officials and police officers .
U.S. Senator John McCain Saturday repeated his party 's calls for stronger support of Iran 's protesters from the U.S. government .
Speaking on behalf of the Republican party for the weekly radio and Internet address , McCain said " we stand with " the Iranians who are protesting a disputed presidential election in the face of a heavy government crackdown .
He said the Iranians ask for nothing besides " public declarations of solidarity , and public denunciations of the tyrants who oppress them , " and he said the United States has a " moral obligation " to do so .
The Republicans have criticized Mr. Obama for not taking a stronger stand on the events in Iran .
But Mr. Obama has said the U.S. respects the sovereignty of Iran , and is not interfering in its internal affairs .
Pakistani police say a suicide bomber blew himself up in the country 's volatile northwestern region , killing a child and wounding four other people .
Authorities say the attack happened Tuesday in the Swat Valley , near the border with Afghanistan .
Suicide bombings in the region have killed at least 10 people in the last week .
The Pakistani government has been trying to regain control of the Swat Valley in recent months , after militants regrouped there from other Pakistani border areas with Afghanistan .
There 's a new Boss in town - and his name is Simon Cowell .
The English music mogul claims he 's worth five times more to his record company than famous rocker Bruce Springsteen .
Speaking on the U.S. television news program 60 Minutes , Cowell estimates his acts have sold more than 100 million records .
An Artist & Repertoire executive for Sony BMG in Britain , he runs his own production company and is also a well-known TV personality .
He serves as one of three judges on American Idol , which he calls " the biggest artist on the planet . "
The program airs in 40 countries worldwide , and every Idolwinner records through Sony BMG .
Malaysian officials say they have detained 93 ethnic Rohingya Muslims who fled Burma .
The officials say they seized a boat containing the men earlier this week .
Thai officials say their navy gave the men food and water when they entered Thai water .
Thailand has admitted to chasing off refugee boats in the past , but say that was not the case this time .
Burma 's military government does not recognize ethnic Rohingya as citizens .
More than 200,000 have fled Burmese state persecution to live in neighboring Bangladesh .
Rescue workers in flood-swamped southern India continued aid operations Wednesday , as the death toll from the floods climbed past 300 .
British relief agency Tearfund said food , clean water , clothing , bedding and shelter are the most pressing needs for the victims in Andrhra Pradesh and Karnataka states .
Authorities say thousands of victims have yet to be reached .
The flooding -- the region 's worst in decades -- has displaced at least 1.5 million people .
With hundreds of thousands now living in temporary shelters , health workers are focusing on preventing illnesses from breaking out among the survivors .
Authorities are also worried that hundreds of thousands of hectares of flooded farmland could affect food harvests .
Flood waters have been receding , though more rain is forecast in the coming days .
The Polish government has recalled several ambassadors identified in a recent report as having worked for a national intelligence agency accused of having close ties with Russia .
Diplomats to Austria , China , Turkey , and Kuwait have been ordered back to Warsaw .
All were named in a new report on the former Military Intelligence Service , which was disbanded last year .
Critics have said the agency maintained links with Russian authorities well after the fall of Communism in 1989 .
President Lech Kaczynski and his twin brother , Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski , have vowed to root out those in public life with close ties to the communist apparatus .
They have claimed former Russian spies in the Military Intelligence Service have tried to control politics in Poland , but critics of the government say the 400-page report fails to back up those claims .
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz has ordered new security measures along Israel 's border with the Gaza Strip in an attempt to prevent Palestinian militant attacks on Israeli communities .
A defense ministry official said Friday that Israel plans to create a " no-man 's land " , which Palestinians would be prevented from entering , on the Gaza side of the border .
Mr. Mofaz also ordered better security checks at two crossing points between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
Israel withdrew its last troops from the territory this week after a 38-year occupation .
After the pullout , Palestinian militants blasted an opening through a barrier on the border between southern Gaza and Egypt , prompting Israeli fears that more arms and militants would enter Gaza .
In another development Friday , thousands of Palestinians broke though security and poured into Egypt , amid Israeli concerns about authorities ' failure to control the border .
Palestinian presidential candidate Mahmoud Abbas says he will seek a renewal of peace talks with Israel , if he is elected in the January 9 Palestinian election .
Mr. Abbas told the Israeli daily Maariv Thursday he would make the resumption of talks with Israel a top priority .
He also criticized Israeli attacks on Palestinians and referred to militant attacks against Israeli targets as " counterproductive . "
Violence continued in the Gaza Strip Thursday when Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Hamas gunman who infiltrated the Ganei Tal Jewish settlement in southern Gaza .
The military says soldiers shot the militant after he attacked an Israeli patrol .
They say Israeli troops were searching for a second gunman .
The head of the U.N. refugee agency 's local office , Laila Nassif said two boats carrying some 300 migrants capsized in the Red Sea .
The official said another boat with 120 migrants overturned in the Arabian Sea .
Nassif said Saturday that about 110 people from the boats had been rescued .
Yemen 's official news agency reports Sunday that rescue efforts continue but that many people are still missing and feared to have drowned .
Each year , tens of thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to reach Yemen in hopes of escaping poverty or conflict in their homelands .
Hundreds die on the journey because of accidents and brutal treatment from smugglers .
Most of the ships cross the Gulf of Aden .
The U.N. refugee agency says more than 50,000 people made the journey last year , and that at least 590 drowned trying .
The top NATO commander in Afghanistan says hardfought gains by alliance troops this year could be lost , if Afghan security forces fail to hold ground seized from the Taleban .
In a British radio interview ( BBC ) , U.S. General Dan McNeill said NATO forces have had success this year in driving Taleban fighters from the valleys of Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province .
But McNeill says the Afghan national security forces have not been as successful in holding the captured territory .
He says there is a chance the Taleban could return to the area in coming months , forcing NATO troops to do the clearing work again .
The NATO forces in the opium-producing southern province are mostly British troops .
They say they have recaptured much of the Helmand River valley from the Taleban over the last six months .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is in the Gaza Strip for talks aimed at preserving a four-month Israeli-Palestinian ceasefire following two days of new violence .
Mr. Abbas arrived in the Gaza Strip hours after witnesses saw an Israeli aircraft fire missiles at suspected Hamas militants who were apparently preparing to fire rockets at Israeli targets .
There were no reports of casualties in the air strike near the Khan Younis refugee camp .
Also Wednesday , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz met Palestinian Interior Minister Nasser Yousef to discuss ways of preserving the ceasefire and preparing the upcoming Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza strip .
Five people were killed in violence on Tuesday , the deadliest since Israel and Palestinian groups began observing a ceasefire four months ago .
Iran says it will suspend uranium conversion activities from November 22 as part of a European-brokered deal to ease tensions over the country 's nuclear program .
In a news briefing Monday , Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi described the move as a confidence-building measure .
But he insisted Iran would not permanently halt uranium enrichment activities .
Full details of the agreement announced Sunday are not yet available .
European countries had warned Tehran that they would support referring Iran to the United Nations Security Council for possible sanctions if the enrichment program was not stopped .
Uranium enrichment can be used to make material for atomic weapons , but Iran insists its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
The United States accuses Iran of developing a secret nuclear weapons program .
Car bomb blasts across Iraq have killed more than 70 people , just hours after former dictator Saddam Hussein was executed for crimes against humanity .
Security officials in Baghdad say three coordinated bomb attacks in a mixed Shi'ite and Sunni area of the city ( Hurriya ) Saturday killed at least 25 people and wounded more than 65 others .
Other blasts killed several more people in the Iraqi capital .
In Kufa , a Shi'ite holy city near Najaf , Iraqi officials say a car bomb in a crowded market killed 31 people and wounded at least 58 others .
It is not clear whether the attacks were related to the execution of Saddam .
Also Saturday , U.S military officials announced the deaths of six American service members , making December the deadliest month for U.S. forces in two years .
Nearly 3,000 U.S. military personnel have been killed in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion began in 2003 .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has failed to provide details of its plans to resume nuclear fuel research next week .
Spokeswoman Melissa Fleming says a meeting was scheduled in Vienna Thursday to discuss the issue , but that the Iranian delegation did not show up for it .
She added that IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei is still seeking clarification from Iran about its plan to resume nuclear fuel research on Monday .
In Washington , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed hope that talks between Iran and European negotiators can resolve the nuclear dispute .
But she warned that if talks fail , there is strong international support to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
Washington accuses Tehran of secretly pursuing nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
The International Olympic Committee says it has " full confidence " that London will be able to provide a secure environment when it hosts the 2012 Olympic games .
A spokeswoman for the Olympic committee made the comment just hours after a series of terrorist attacks shook London Thursday .
On Wednesday , the IOC selected the British capital to host the 2012 games during a meeting in Singapore .
London beat out Paris , Madrid , New York and Moscow .
The British Olympics Minister Tessa Jowell said plans to celebrate the homecoming of the British Olympic delegation have been canceled .
Landslides and heavy rains triggered by a powerful typhoon in the eastern Philippines have killed more than 100 people , with several others missing .
At least 20 were killed when a mudslide poured down from the Mount Mayon volcano in the village of Padang , some 350 kilometers southeast of the capital , Manila .
Authorities say they fear the death toll may rise .
Deaths have been reported in several other areas in Albay province , including the towns of Daraga and Santo Domingo .
Typhoon Durian lashed the island of Catanduanes on Thursday with winds of up to 190 kilometers an hour , and gusts up to 225 kilometers an hour .
The typhoon tore up trees , cut electricity in coastal areas and forced hundreds of residents to flee to higher ground .
The typhoon has since weakened and is moving near Mindoro island , south of Manila , with winds of 150 kilometers per hour .
VOA 's Ray Kouguell interviewed Professor of Architecture , Mary Comerio , University of California , Berkeley about Haiti earthquake rehabilitation in the months ahead .
Professor Comerio talks about the scope of re-building , the long-range outlook for recovery and how Haiti 's devastation compares with other similar earthquake disasters .
President Bush says prayer speaks to the true strength of America .
In remarks at the 55th annual National Prayer Breakfast Thursday , Mr. Bush said although citizens of the United States come from many faiths , Americans share a profound conviction in their beliefs .
He hailed U.S. servicemembers in war zones around the world , and hailed America as a nation that produces courageous men and women willing to defend their country .
Earlier , the keynote speaker Dr. Francis Collins said the separation of religion and science are not different ideas , but rather , complementary .
A leader of the genome project to identify human DNA , Collins said scientific breakthroughs now provide the world with an unprecedented opportunity to solve many of the major health problems facing the planet .
The National Prayer Breakfast is an annual event attended by the president , members of the U.S. Congress and leaders from around the world .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has arrived in Poland for the annual March of the Living at the site of two Nazi death camps .
Top Polish officials are expected to join the Israeli leader and about 20,000 others in the three-kilometer walk from the Auschwitz to the Birkenau camps , as the world marks the 60th anniversary of the end of WWII .
Holocaust survivors are joining the march between the camps were the Nazis killed more than one million Jews during the war .
Commemorations were also held in Israel as sirens blared and the nation stopped for two minutes to honor the victims .
At ceremonies in Jerusalem Wednesday , Mr. Sharon said Jews will never again be without protection , a home , and refuge .
The U.S. military in Iraq says one American soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad Thursday .
The blast occurred in the same general region where U.S. troops and insurgents fought a brief battle on Wednesday , killing one U.S. soldier and two terrorists .
Also on Wednesday , a top U.S. military official , Brigadier General Michael Barbero , told reporters at the Pentagon that there is clear evidence Iranian forces are in Iraq giving training , money , and equipment to Shi'ite insurgents , including the deadly Improvised Explosive Devices - IEDs .
But he said coalition troops have not directly encountered any Iranians .
The IEDs have killed more than 1,200 U.S. soldiers and thousands of civilians .
The U.S. general says neutralizing the Shi'ite extremists will go a long way towards removing Iranian influence in Iraq .
International donors meeting in Oslo , Norway have pledged about four-point-five billion dollars in aid to rebuild southern Sudan after 21 years of civil war .
The United States pledged $ 1.7 billion over the next two years .
However , U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick said Tuesday the aid is dependent on Sudan ending a separate conflict in its western Darfur region .
He said the violence in Darfur casts a dangerous shadow over all of Sudan .
The United Nations estimates that the fighting in Darfur between pro-government Arab militias and rebels has left 180,000 people dead and more than two million others displaced .
Those aid donations made in Oslo Tuesday and Monday will go to help humanitarian and rebuilding efforts in southern Sudan , following a peace deal between the government and southern rebels earlier this year .
U.S. President Barack Obama is to host his French counterpart at the White House next week for talks on a broad range of foreign policy and security issues .
The White House says President Obama looks forward to working with President Nicolas Sarkozy to sustain the global economic recovery and create jobs , as France assumes the presidency of the Group of Eight and Group of 20 top industrialized countries for 2011 .
A U.S. judge has ordered the Bush administration to decide by May 15 whether polar bears in Alaska should be on the endangered species list because of global warming .
The judge ruled in favor of three conservation groups , including Greenpeace , that claim the U.S. government delayed a decision on the polar bear issue to avoid addressing global warming .
Environmental groups have argued the existence of the polar bears is threatened by the disappearance of their icy habitat due to global warming .
Under the Endangered Species Act , it is required that a decision to place species on the list be based on science .
The conservation groups say science shows the Arctic is thawing .
The U.S. State Department says Americans who plan to travel to Venezuela for the Copa America football ( soccer ) tournament should be aware of continuing security concerns there and possible changes to official entry requirements .
A public announcement issued Friday says Americans considering travel to Venezuela should carefully consider the risks to their safety and security .
Officials warn that violent crime has become a daily occurrence in the capital , Caracas , and that the murder rate there is one of Latin America 's highest .
Additionally , the State Department says Americans should be aware that uncertainties in the availability of tournament tickets has led to local protests .
The announcement urges Americans to monitor Venezuela 's government Web sites and contact its embassy or consulates for information on whether vaccinations are required to enter the country during the tournament .
The Copa America competition begins June 26 and ends July 19 .
Seven years ago , the U.S. was struck by the most devastating terrorist attack in its history .
The news media responded to the events of September 11 , 2001 , providing live coverage as events unfolded in a tireless and sometimes heroic fashion .
That reporting is on display in a special gallery at Washington 's Newseum , a museum dedicated to journalism .
VOA 's Tabinda Naeem has more on the exhibit depicting many of the challenges faced that day by the media .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Afghan officials say fierce fighting has erupted between government security forces and Taleban rebels a day after U.S. airstrikes killed as many as 20 suspected militants in southern Afghanistan .
Gunbattles early Monday have left 11 Taleban guerillas dead , along with a local government official and a member of Afghanistan 's security force .
On Sunday , the U.S. military said it had killed 15 to 20 suspected Taleban fighters in an airstrike after coalition forces came under small arms and rocket fire .
Violence in the south and east regions of Afghanistan has increased in the last three months .
A U.S. government report says Iraq 's police force has accepted recruits with criminal backgrounds and even insurgents , due to poor screening procedures .
The report based on a study by the inspectors general at the Defense and State Departments was released late Monday .
It says there is sufficient evidence to conclude that terrorists or insurgents have infiltrated the ranks of Iraqi police .
It criticizes coalition military personnel for not being able to properly find and screen candidates for the police force .
It says although Iraqi police officers are increasingly visible on the streets , the effort to build up the forces has been a " qualified success . "
Pentagon officials say they are addressing most of the concerns raised by the study , which ended in April , and that police recruiting and training have improved since then .
Afghan officials say a provincial governor has survived a suicide car bomb attack that killed his bodyguard .
The bomber rammed his explosive-laden car into vehicles carrying Khost governor Arsala Jamal and his entourage Wednesday .
Officials say seven people were hurt in the attack which they call an assassination attempt .
Also Wednesday , NATO says Taleban militants attacked one of its bases in eastern Nuristan province , killing two Afghan soldiers and wounding 11 U.S. troops .
Taleban militants have stepped up suicide attacks and kidnappings over the past 18 months in a renewed campaign to oust NATO and the U.S.-backed Afghan government .
The region of present day Georgia contained the ancient kingdoms of Colchis and Kartli-Iberia .
The area came under Roman influence in the first centuries A.D . and Christianity became the state religion in the 330s .
Domination by Persians , Arabs , and Turks was followed by a Georgian golden age ( 11th - 13th centuries ) that was cut short by the Mongol invasion of 1236 .
Subsequently , the Ottoman and Persian empires competed for influence in the region .
Georgia was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th century .
Independent for three years ( 1918 - 1921 ) following the Russian revolution , it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991 .
An attempt by the incumbent Georgian government to manipulate national legislative elections in November 2003 touched off widespread protests that led to the resignation of Eduard SHEVARDNADZE , president since 1995 .
New elections in early 2004 swept Mikheil SAAKASHVILI into power along with his United National Movement party .
Progress on market reforms and democratization has been made in the years since independence , but this progress has been complicated by Russian assistance and support to the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
After a series of Russian and separatist provocations in summer 2008 , Georgian military action in South Ossetia in early August led to a Russian military response that not only occupied the breakaway areas , but large portions of Georgia proper as well .
Russian troops pulled back from most occupied Georgian territory , but in late August 2008 Russia unilaterally recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
This action was strongly condemned by most of the world 's nations and international organizations .
Kuwaiti authorities say the alleged leader of a terrorist group has died after suffering a heart attack while in custody .
Officials said Amer Al-Enezi died late Tuesday .
He was captured when Kuwaiti security forces stormed a suspected terrorist hideout near Kuwait City about two weeks ago .
Four Islamic militants were killed and three others were captured during the January 31 raid .
Officials described the alleged ringleader as a former mosque preacher and a reputed al-Qaida figure .
Kuwaiti security forces have recently stepped up efforts to combat Islamic militants in the emirate who are plotting to attack U.S. troops and other Westerners .
Kuwait is a staging area for American forces in Iraq .
A 34-year-old Buddhist clothes trader is the latest beheading victim in Thailand 's troubled Muslim-dominated south .
Authorities say Lek Pongpa was sitting outside a tea shop during lunch time Wednesday in Narathiwat province when a suspected Islamic militant approached him and shot him twice in the back .
The attacker then cut the victim 's head off , stuffed it in a sack and fled the scene .
The head was later found dumped two kilometers away from the tea shop .
Mr. Lek is the fifth Thai Buddhist beheading victim this month , and the eighth overall since a Muslim insurgency broke out in January 2004 .
More than 700 people have been killed in the violence , which has been centered in Narathiwat , Yala and Pattani .
A Russian court has approved the extradition to Colombia of a former Israeli army officer convicted in absentia of training Colombian rightist paramilitaries .
Yair Klein was sentenced to 10 years in prison in Colombia .
He was detained at a Moscow airport in August last year .
A court spokesman says Klein has 10 days to appeal the ruling , which was made Tuesday .
Colombia 's paramilitary groups were organized in the 1980s as private armies for landlords to protect them from leftist guerrillas .
Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their decline at the end of the first millennium A.D.
The British and Spanish disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries ; it formally became the colony of British Honduras in 1854 .
Territorial disputes between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of Belize until 1981 .
Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992 and the two countries are involved in an ongoing border dispute .
Guatemala and Belize plan to hold a simultaneous referendum to determine if this dispute will go before the International Court of Justice at The Hague , though they have not yet set a date .
Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy .
Current concerns include the country 's heavy foreign debt burden , high unemployment , growing involvement in the Mexican and South American drug trade , high crime rates , and one of the highest prevalence rates of HIV / AIDS in Central America .
India and Sri Lanka say peace talks with Tamil rebels should resume soon to prevent the island nation from plunging back into civil war .
The joint call was made after Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse met with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi and briefed him about his government 's efforts to restart the talks .
An Indian spokesman said both countries agreed about the need to strengthen the almost three-year-old cease-fire , which is becoming fragile .
The stalemate is on the place of the peace talks .
Sri Lanka 's government wants to hold them in an Asian country , the rebels want them in Norway .
Norway , which brokered the cease-fire , is also urging the two sides to meet immediately to prevent a return to civil war .
Norwegian negotiator Erik Solheim said the recent surge in violence has put Sri Lanka 's truce at risk .
Pakistan is monitoring seven major websites to block anti-Islamic content and links .
The Ministry of Information said Friday it is also outright blocking 17 other websites for alleged blasphemous material .
A Pakistan Telecommunication Authority spokesman , Khurram Mehran , said the sites that will be monitored are Yahoo , Google , YouTube , Amazon , MSN , Hotmail and Bing .
The measures follow Pakistan 's temporary ban imposed on the popular social network website Facebook in May because of a controversial page that encouraged users to draw the Prophet Muhammad .
Most Muslims consider any images made of the prophet to be blasphemous .
The ban on Facebook drew both praise and condemnation in a country that has long struggled with how strict a version of Islam Pakistan should follow .
Mexico 's Zapatista rebels have announced that they are dissolving their political wing and replacing it with a new civil organization .
Zapatista leader Subcomandante Marcos said Wednesday that the Zapatista National Liberation Front will cease operations on Friday .
Subcomandante Marcos did not have a name for the new organization , but said it will be " peaceful , anti-capitalist and leftist . "
Last August , Subcomandante Marcos emerged from hiding in the jungle for the first time in four years to criticize the country 's political leaders .
In 1994 , Zapatista rebels staged an armed rebellion in the Chiapas state of Mexico , asserting indigenous rights .
Hundreds of supporters of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr demonstrated Saturday , in front of government buildings in the relatively quiet southern cities of Basra , Amarah and Kut .
They were demanding an end to electricity and gasoline shortages .
In Baghdad , at least three mortar shells exploded near the heavily protected Green Zone , causing no casualties , but scattering journalists who were arriving for a security briefing .
South of Baghdad , the U.S. military says a U.S. Marine was killed Saturday , while on patrol in Babil province .
And in a separate development , the Iraqi Defense Ministry confirmed a news report that an Iraqi woman trained by Saddam Hussein loyalists in Syria intended to kill the defense minister .
The woman collapsed in the minister 's office before carrying out her mission .
Togo 's interim president has assured voters that Sunday 's presidential election will be held as scheduled , despite a call by the interior minister for polling to be postponed amid rising tensions in the tiny West African country .
Interim President Abass Bonfoh issued a statement Friday saying he wanted to reassure the country and the international community that the vote will take place .
He said security forces have taken necessary measures to make sure the election will be peaceful .
The president 's statement came hours after Interior Minister Francois Boko called for the postponement of Sunday 's election , warning of violence amid rising tensions .
West African leaders helped set up the election after the death of longtime President Gnassingbe Eyadema in February sparked a succession crisis .
The Iraqi government says the June 30 deadline for U.S. troops to withdraw from urban areas in Iraq can not be extended .
Iraqi spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said Monday the government is committed to the departure timeline in the U.S.-Iraqi security agreement .
A rise in violence has prompted concern about whether Iraqi forces are ready to take over security responsibilities .
Last week , U.S. commanders were considering whether they may need to keep forces in the northern city of Mosul beyond the June deadline , if Iraqi authorities ask them to stay .
The security agreement calls for American forces to pull back from cities by the end of June and the from rest of the country by the end of 2011 .
In the latest violence , a car bomb exploded near the Iraqi Oil Ministry in Baghdad Monday , killing one person and wounding three others .
Two new reports paint a discouraging picture of the U.S. economy Friday .
A University of Michigan survey of hundreds of households shows the steepest monthly drop in consumer confidence on record in October .
Economists watch consumer moods for clues about the consumer spending that drives two-thirds of the U.S. economy .
Experts blame falling consumer confidence on problems in the credit and stock markets that have hurt the investments that many people had hoped would pay for their retirements .
A separate report from the Commerce Department said the number of new homes under construction fell sharply ( by more than six percent ) in September to a 17-year low .
If housing starts continued at September 's rate for a whole year , just 817,000 new homes would go up .
Officials also said that the number of applications for permits to build homes in the future plunged to a 27-year low .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has demanded parliament rescind its vote to dismiss the government .
He spoke during a special meeting of the Cabinet Thursday and blamed the vote on opposition lawmakers he said are trying to create instability in Ukraine .
Lawmakers voted Tuesday to fire Prime Minister Yuri Yekhanurov 's government over its agreement to pay sharply higher prices for gas imports from Russia .
Top government officials say parliament 's move was illegal .
Mr. Yushchenko had indicated readiness to bring the dismissal before the constitutional court .
But lawmakers Thursday refused to confirm the president 's nominees for constitutional court judges .
Ukraine has begun implementing a constitutional reform that gives authority to appoint and dismiss the government to the parliament instead of the president .
However , the changes have been enacted only partially , pending parliamentary elections in March .
A Chinese millionaire has been executed for arranging a contract killing on a man who threatened to expose him for attempting to murder a business partner .
Yuan Baojing , former president of Beijing-based Jianhao Group , was put to death by lethal injection Saturday in Liaoning province .
His brother and cousin were also executed .
Yuan was sentenced to death last January for hiring a hit man in a failed plot to kill a business partner who caused his company to lose more than $ 10 million .
The man who found the hit man then began blackmailing Yuan .
The tycoon paid his brother and cousin to kill the blackmailer , who was shot to death in October 2003 .
The main militant group responsible for a string of recent attacks in Nigeria 's southern oil-producing Niger Delta region says it has sabotaged another pipeline belonging to the British-Dutch Shell oil company .
In an e-mailed statement , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta says its fighters attacked the pipeline late Thursday .
It would be the fourth Shell pipeline the group has attacked this month .
Shell officials have not confirmed the incident .
Militants and gangs began attacking oil facilities in the Delta in late 2005 to demand that more oil revenue be directed to impoverished local residents .
The attacks have reduced Nigeria 's daily oil output by an estimated 20 percent .
The loss of production has contributed to the spike in world oil prices .
President Bush has signed a new law authorizing him to freeze Sudanese government assets to protest the violence in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
The so-called " Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 " encourages the president to impose targeted sanctions .
Among them are a travel ban and a freeze on the assets of government and military officials , and government-controlled businesses .
The mostly non-binding legislation urges Mr. Bush to discourage United Nations members from importing oil from Sudan .
It also calls for the United States to assist in the deployment of additional African Union troops Darfur .
The United Nations has described the violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region as the world 's worst humanitarian crisis , with nearly two million people forced from their homes .
Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels recently suspended talks after trading charges of ceasefire violations .
Thousands of Iraqi troops backed by U.S. forces are continuing their push through the northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar , an insurgent stronghold near the borders of Syria and Turkey .
Western news reports say coalition forces were advancing unchallenged Sunday , after encountering stiff resistance Saturday in the city , now largely deserted by its 200,000 residents .
Late Saturday , the U.S. military said 141 insurgents had been killed and 200 suspects captured in the area since August 26 .
Separately , a U.S. military statement says coalition forces have launched an assault on what it described as a known terrorist haven in the western al-Anbar provincial town of ar-Rutbah .
Elsewhere , a senior Interior Ministry official , Major-General Adnan Abdul Rahman , was shot and killed in front of his home in western Baghdad .
And authorities say a U.S. soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in Samarra .
Palestinian officials say hundreds of Palestinian security personnel will begin deploying along the Gaza border Friday , in a push to stop militant rocket and mortar fire at Israeli targets in the area .
The move follows late-night negotiations between senior Israeli and Palestinian security and military officials .
The resumption of bilateral talks appears to have averted a threatened Israeli military offensive in Gaza .
For its part , Israel says it will reopen the main border crossing between Gaza and Egypt .
The Rafah crossing was closed last month , after Palestinian militants killed five Israeli soldiers at a nearby army post .
Meanwhile , in the West Bank , Israeli troops shot and killed a 12-year-old boy near Jenin , after apparently mistaking his toy gun for a real weapon .
In southern Gaza , Palestinians say another youth was hit and killed by Israeli gunfire while standing in the street near his house .
AN ASS , having put on the Lion 's skin , roamed about in the forest and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met in his wanderings .
At last coming upon a Fox , he tried to frighten him also , but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voice than he exclaimed , " I might possibly have been frightened myself , if I had not heard your bray . "
Clothes may disguise a fool , but his words will give him away
A large body of recent oceanographic research has shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Current ( ACC ) , an ocean current that flows from west to east around Antarctica , plays a crucial role in global ocean circulation .
The region where the cold waters of the ACC meet and mingle with the warmer waters of the north defines a distinct border - the Antarctic Convergence - which fluctuates with the seasons , but which encompasses a discrete body of water and a unique ecologic region .
The Convergence concentrates nutrients , which promotes marine plant life , and which in turn allows for a greater abundance of animal life .
In the spring of 2000 , the International Hydrographic Organization decided to delimit the waters within the Convergence as a fifth world ocean - the Southern Ocean - by combining the southern portions of the Atlantic Ocean , Indian Ocean , and Pacific Ocean .
The Southern Ocean extends from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude , which coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit and which approximates the extent of the Antarctic Convergence .
As such , the Southern Ocean is now the fourth largest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean , Atlantic Ocean , and Indian Ocean , but larger than the Arctic Ocean ) .
It should be noted that inclusion of the Southern Ocean does not imply recognition of this feature as one of the world 's primary oceans by the US Government .
Authorities in Iraq say a brother of one of Iraq 's two vice presidents has been killed in an ambush in Baghdad .
The brother of Shi'ite Vice President Adel Abdul Mehdi - cabinet advisor Ghalib Abdul Mehdi - and his driver were killed when gunmen fired at their car .
Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility .
Separately , police say Iraq 's Deputy Trade Minister Dawoud Hassan was wounded when his motorcade was ambushed in the capital .
The U.S. Defense Department says nearly 26,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed or wounded by insurgents since January 2004 .
A report posted on a Pentagon web site says about 80 percent of insurgent attacks during that time targeted U.S. forces , while Iraqis accounted for 80 percent of the casualties .
The first group of Ukrainian troops has arrived home from Iraq as Ukraine started the phased pull-out of its soldiers from the country .
A Ukrainian Defense Ministry statement says the plane carrying 137 soldiers landed in Mykolaiv , south of Kiev , Tuesday .
The troops were part of a contingent of more than 1,600 Ukrainian soldiers that have been serving in Iraq .
The statement says 550 troops are to be withdrawn by May 15 , and the remaining soldiers by the end of the year .
President Viktor Yushchenko had promised to have the pull-out complete by October , but officials said it may take longer .
Eighteen Ukrainian troops have been killed in Iraq during the deployment , which many Ukrainians have opposed .
Unique among African countries , the ancient Ethiopian monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the exception of a short-lived Italian occupation from 1936 - 41 .
In 1974 , a military junta , the Derg , deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE ( who had ruled since 1930 ) and established a socialist state .
Torn by bloody coups , uprisings , wide-scale drought , and massive refugee problems , the regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of rebel forces , the Ethiopian People 's Revolutionary Democratic Front ( EPRDF ) .
A constitution was adopted in 1994 , and Ethiopia 's first multiparty elections were held in 1995 .
A border war with Eritrea late in the 1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000 .
In November 2007 , the Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission remotely demarcated the border by geographical coordinates , but final demarcation of the boundary on the ground is currently on hold because of Ethiopian objections to an international commission 's finding requiring it to surrender territory considered sensitive to Ethiopia .
Chinese authorities have arrested one of the country 's top rocket designers and will try him on charges of accepting bribes and embezzling millions of dollars .
The official Xinhua news agency said Friday , that Li Jianzhong , the former president of the Chinese Academy of Carrier Rocket Technology , is alleged to have taken more than $ 200,000 in bribes .
He is also accused of embezzling nearly $ 19 million .
Mr. Li 's agency developed the Long March series of rockets , one of which powered China 's first manned spaceship , the Shenzhou Five , into space in October of 2003 .
Xinhua said a tip to police prompted an investigation of Mr. Li that began shortly after the successful launch of the Shenzhou Five rocket in October of 2003 .
Iraqi officials have reported two new attacks against religious targets in the country .
In a village north of Baghdad , authorities say a suicide bomber killed at least nine people at a Sufi Muslim gathering late Thursday .
The attack was reported Friday .
Some Islamic extremists regard Sufis as heretics , but no one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
In the southern city of Basra , meanwhile , authorities say gunmen shot and killed Ali Abdul-Hussein , leader of a Shi'ite mosque , as he stood outside his house late Thursday .
Officials also say a Turkman official , General Sabah Qaratun , was killed in a separate attack in the northern town of Kirkuk Friday .
The latest attacks come as Iraq 's interior ministry issued its first civilian death toll , showing 12,000 people have died over the past 18 months .
Britney Spears and Kevin Federline officially ended their marriage July 30 .
Los Angeles Court Commissioner Scott Gordon signed orders for dissolution of marriage , an alimony agreement , and child custody .
Britney Spears ' attorney Laura Wasser said the alimony agreement will not be made public unless there is an enforcement issue .
The child custody order was tentatively sealed , pending an August 14 hearing .
Gordon said " the best interests of the children could be harmed " if the arrangement were not sealed .
Spears married Federline , a former backup dancer , in October , 2004 , eight months after the annulment of her first marriage to childhood friend Jason Alexander .
Citing irreconcilable differences , she filed for divorce from Federline on November 7 , 2006 .
Since February , the couple have shared joint custody of their two sons , 22-month-old Sean Preston and 10-month-old Jayden James .
Pakistani officials said five more people have been killed in the southern port city of Karachi , raising the death toll from four days of political violence to at least 36 .
Authorities said the latest victims were fatally shot Tuesday by attackers .
About 50 people have been wounded in the violence , which began Saturday in Karachi .
The unrest coincided with a by-election Sunday to replace a lawmaker killed earlier this year .
Provincial lawmaker Raza Haider from the Muttahida Quami Movement was gunned down in Karachi in August .
The assassination sparked four days of violence that killed at least 85 people .
MQM , which largely represents the Urdu-speaking community , and the rival Awami National Party , representing ethnic Pashtuns , blame each other for the violence .
The city of 16 million people is prone to ethnic and sectarian killings , crime and kidnappings .
An unofficial predictor of U.S. weather has made his forecast , Americans will get an early spring .
A groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil was pulled from his home in a tree stump Friday morning in a small town in Pennsylvania .
He did not see his shadow and , according to an American ritual , that means it will be a short winter .
Every year , thousands gather in Punxsutawney on February 2 for what is known as Groundhog Day .
The crowd cheered at this year 's results .
According to tradition , had he seen his shadow , winter would last another six weeks .
The observance of Groundhog Day in the United States is a carryover of a centuries-old German tradition known as Candlemas Day .
That tradition has grown in popularity in recent years , driven in part by the 1993 film comedy Groundhog Day .
North Korea has confirmed that a South Korean man sailing a fishing vessel has defected to the communist nation .
The man , identified by Pyongyang 's official Korean Central News Agency ( KCNA ) as 57-year-old Hwang Hong-ryon , fled to the North Wednesday , despite a flurry of warning shots fired by South Korean troops .
It is unclear why the man defected but the KCNA reports he is being questioned by North Korean investigators .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency says military officials believe the fisherman was drunk .
Yonhap also says Mr. Hwang was born in North Korea and defected to the south with his sister in 1951 .
The two Koreas remain technically at war , having never signed a peace treaty after the conclusion of the 1950 - 53 Korean War .
In Major League Baseball , the Houston Astros have signed All-Star pitcher Roger Clemens to a one-year , $ 18-million deal making him the highest paid pitcher in the game .
Clemens 's deal tied outfielders Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds for the fourth-highest average salary in the major leagues .
The right hander , 42 , helped the Astros reach the National League Championship Series in 2004 .
He won 18 games and lost four with an earned run average of 2.98 and 218 strikeouts .
Clemens also won the Cy Young award for pitching excellence for the seventh time in his career .
Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and claimed for Spain , it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631 and set about exploiting its salt deposits .
The Spanish retook the island in 1633 , but continued to be harassed by the Dutch .
The Spanish finally relinquished the island of Saint Martin to the French and Dutch , who divided it amongst themselves in 1648 .
The establishment of cotton , tobacco , and sugar plantations dramatically expanded slavery on the island in the 18th and 19th centuries ; the practice was not abolished in the Dutch half until 1863 .
The island 's economy declined until 1939 when it became a free port ; the tourism industry was dramatically expanded beginning in the 1950s .
In 1954 , Sint Maarten and several other Dutch Caribbean possessions became part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands as the Netherlands Antilles .
In a 2000 referendum , the citizens of Sint Maarten voted to become a self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
The change in status became effective in October of 2010 with the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles .
NATO says a landmine blast in eastern Afghanistan has killed one NATO solider and wounded four others .
A statement says the bomb went off Thursday near a vehicle carrying NATO troops .
The nationality of the troops was not given .
Most of the NATO soldiers in eastern Afghanistan are American .
Three Canadian troops were killed Wednesday when a roadside bomb hit their vehicle in the southern province of Kandahar .
The attack raised the Canadian military death toll in Afghanistan to 60 since 2002 .
Also Wednesday , an Afghan official , Zhari district chief Khairuddin , said Afghan and NATO forces killed 21 Taleban militants in a battle in another part of Kandahar .
The Canadian Press agency quotes a Canadian officer as saying the fighting involved Canadian soldiers .
Thousands of anti-war protesters have marched in London joining protests in Japan , Australia and elsewhere in the world ahead of the third anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
In London , thousands gathered in a square in the city 's center Saturday , chanting anti-war slogans .
Some carried posters called President Bush the " world 's number one terrorist . "
Others posters called for the ouster of British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Britain has the second largest contingent of troops in Iraq behind the United States .
Organizers say demonstrations over the next three days are part of what they call " global days of action " protesting the war .
Protests were also reported in South Korea , Pakistan , Turkey and Greece .
Organizers say they expect more than 200 protests worldwide today .
The war in Iraq began March 19 , 2003 .
Australian Justice Minister Chris Ellison says an Australian terror suspect at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba should not be repatriated until he is tried by U.S. authorities .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Thursday the United States would rather have detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison camp imprisoned by their home countries .
But Mr. Ellison said Friday he does not want suspected terrorist David Hicks to return to Australia until the U.S. justice system had dealt with him .
Mr. Ellison said Australia would have no choice but to release Mr. Hicks without charge because counter-terrorism laws introduced after the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States were not retroactive .
However , Mr. Ellison called for a speedy trial for the terror suspect .
Algerian authorities say a suicide truck bomber has killed 10 soldiers and wounded about 35 others at a military barracks east of the capital , Algiers .
The bomber blew up a refrigerated truck Wednesday in Lakhdaria , a village in the restive Kabylie region .
The attack occurred just hours before the start of the All Africa Games , one of the continent 's largest sporting events .
Algiers and two towns in Kabylie are hosting the games .
Al-Jazeera television reports al-Qaida 's North African branch has claimed responsibility for the bombing .
The al-Qaida Organization in the Islamic Maghreb , formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat has claimed responsibility for previous attacks in Algeria , including two car bombings in April which killed 33 people .
The services sector of the U.S. economy grew a little more slowly in November .
Monday 's report from a business group , The Institute for Supply Management , says its index of growth eased 1.5 downward to a reading of 58.5 . In this index , any reading above 50 indicates growth .
Services include a huge number of non-manufacturing businesses , everything from barber shops to airlines , and make up the majority of activity in the U.S. economy .
Some analysts say the businesses included in the survey had a " generally positive " outlook in the U.S. economic situation , but remain concerned about high energy prices .
The trial of ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and seven co-defendants , which was scheduled to resume Tuesday , has been delayed until Sunday .
A court spokesman told journalists the court decided to postpone the hearings because some witnesses were unable to attend .
Journalists have been waiting for hours for the court to begin its session .
Monday , the court appointed Raouf Rasheed Abdel-Rahman , a Kurd , to temporarily replace the presiding judge who resigned this month after criticism of his conduct of the trial .
In incidents of violence , armed men kidnapped two German engineers from an oil refinery compound in the town of Baiji , north of Baghdad .
Separately , the U.S. military says two soldiers were killed Monday by a roadside bomb in Baghdad , while two Marines were killed in a vehicle accident in western Iraq .
Israel says it will be forced to defend itself against Iran , if the United Nations Security Council fails to take action to stop Tehran from acquiring nuclear weapons .
In an interview with Reuters news agency , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz was asked whether Israel is ready to use military force , if the Security Council does not stop what Israel believes is a covert Iranian weapons program .
Mofaz replied , " we have to defend ourselves . "
He said any military action would be based on Israel 's right to provide security to its people .
In 1981 , Israel bombed a nuclear reactor in Iraq to prevent Saddam Hussein from developing nuclear weapons .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for the destruction of Israel since taking office last year .
He also has rejected the vast body of historical documentation of the Holocaust as myth .
Reports from the Hurricane Katrina disaster zone Sunday say the American singer and musician Clarence " Gatemouth " Brown has died at the age of 81 , shortly after he was forced to leave his home just outside New Orleans .
According to Associated Press , Brown died Saturday in Orange , Texas , the town where he grew up .
He reportedly had suffered from both lung cancer and heart disease .
For 50 years Brown 's career was based in New Orleans , where he played guitar and sang blues , country , jazz , zydeco and Cajun music .
The nickname " Gatemouth " derived from Brown 's distinctive deep voice .
His early blues hits included Okie Dokie Stomp and Ai n't That Dandy .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez arrived in Iran Wednesday for talks with officials on bilateral issues .
Reports say he is expected to meet with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Thursday as well as launch a joint development bank and bilateral investment fund .
Mr. Chavez ' visit to Iran follows a meeting with Latin American and Arab leaders in Qatar .
The Venezuelan president has made several trips to Iran since Mr. Ahmadinejad took power in 2005 .
Both leaders have forged close ties .
Later this week , Mr. Chavez heads to Asia for talks with regional leaders .
Turkey 's military says troops killed four Kurdish guerrillas in operations Friday night near the border with northern Iraq .
Military authorities said Saturday the clash occurred in southeastern Hakkari province .
The banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) has been fighting for autonomy for ethnic Kurds in Turkey 's southeast since 1984 .
More than 30,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
Police in Rangoon , Burma 's largest city , kept close watch Saturday outside the headquarters of Aung San Suu Kyi 's pro-democracy party , as it celebrated its 20th anniversary .
Plainclothes officers took pictures of people arriving for the ceremony , attended by at least 200 members of the National League for Democracy , as well as foreign diplomats .
The ceremony was also a homecoming for prominent journalist Win Tin , who was released from prison earlier this week after 19 years behind bars .
He is Burma 's longest-held political prisoner .
The NLD released a statement calling for the ruling generals to release all political prisoners , including Aung San Suu Kyi , who has spent 13 of the last 19 years under house arrest .
The NLD was founded in 1988 , after the military crushed a pro-democracy uprising in Burma .
Afghan officials say airstrikes by U.S. helicopter gunships and tankbuster jets have killed at least 12 suspected Taleban in southern Afghanistan .
They say the fighting began after insurgents tried to kill the former military commander of Khost province , Kheyal Baaz Khan Sherzai , in an ambush .
The suspected Taleban fired rockets at Mr. Sherzai on a main road between the Afghan capital , Kabul and Gardez .
He was not injured .
The French press agency ( AFP ) says Afghan soldiers chased the attackers into the mountains and U.S. air support was called in .
Taleban fighters have carried out a number of attacks recently after a winter lull .
A U.S.-led coalition ousted the Taleban regime in 2001 .
About 17,000 US military personnel are in Afghanistan trying to weed out Taleban remnants .
NATO and Afghan officials say more than 90 insurgents have been killed during heavy fighting in southern Afghanistan .
The officials say at least 78 insurgents were killed Saturday as coalition forces repelled an attack on a NATO outpost in southeastern Paktika province .
Five NATO troops were injured in the fighting .
The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force says troops called in airstrikes that helped beat back the assault .
In a separate incident , an Afghan official says NATO and Afghan forces killed 17 insurgents during an operation in Helmand province Saturday .
A provincial government spokesman says the fighting the Deshu district lasted about 12 hours .
Also , NATO says a senior Taliban leader , Mullah Abdullah Kakar , was killed during an airstrike in southern Zabul province on Thursday .
Venezuela has deployed troops in two opposition-led states , where final results from Sunday 's general election have yet to be released .
Interior Minister Jesse Chacon says the National Guard troops were sent Tuesday to help prevent violence .
In Yaracuy , troops surrounded the office of opposition Governor Eduardo Lapi , who vowed not to leave his post until final vote results are issued .
He questioned if the troop deployment was a coup attempt against him .
Security was also boosted in Carabobo state , where another opposition official , Governor Henrique Salas , is seeking re-election .
Monday , election officials issued results for many regions , showing Mr. Chavez 's party had won 18 of the country 's 22 state governor posts that were being disputed .
Officials say they plan to release final results in the next two day .
Some of this information provided by Reuters .
Philippine President Benigno Aquino has launched his first executive order , creating a truth commission to investigate possible corruption by the administration of former President Gloria Arroyo .
Mr. Aquino announced the order Friday , saying the move would bring " necessary closure to allegations of official wrongdoing and impunity . "
The commission will probe allegations of corruption in a deal with a Chinese company to provide broadband Internet access in the Philippines , among other questions .
The commission has until the end of 2012 to finish its investigation .
Mr. Aquino campaigned for the presidency on an anti-corruption platform .
Former Supreme Court Chief Justice Hilario Davide has been selected to head the commission .
Leaders of 53 Commonwealth nations have gathered in the Mediterranean island of Malta for a summit .
The Commonwealth 's three-day biennial meeting is set to begin Friday .
Most , but not all , members of the Commonwealth were once part of the British Empire .
Member nations include developed countries such as Australia and Canada , developing nations including India and Pakistan , and island nations such as Vanuatu .
Almost one-third of the world 's population lives in Commonwealth member nations .
The Commonwealth says the group 's values include democracy , good governance , equality and economic development .
Authorities in Haiti have killed at least one person during a protest by supporters of ousted former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Thousands of protesters marched in the Bel-air section of Port-au-Prince to demand the return Mr. Aristide , who has been in exile in South Africa since last February .
Authorities opened fire on the crowd as they entered an intersection in Bel-air .
Few other details were given .
Violence in Port-au-Prince 's pro-Aristide slums has killed more than 200 people in the last four months .
Sinbad is alive and well .
The 50-year-old actor-comedian says he " rose from the dead " last week , after Wikipedia mistakenly proclaimed his demise .
An editor on the vast Internet site posted that Sinbad had succumbed to a heart attack .
Email links of the erroneous page were forwarded nationwide before other members of the Wikipedia community corrected the mistake .
Sinbad , whose real name is David Adkins , says he 's not upset at the error - although he would n't mind an apology from Wikipedia headquarters in St. Petersburg , Florida .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has turned down a request by Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo to meet at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in South Korea .
Japanese officials say Mr. Koizumi does not have time .
Relations between the two countries have soured over former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori 's recent return to South America .
Mr. Fujimori , a Japanese citizen , fled to Japan five years ago in the midst of a corruption scandal .
He was arrested last week in Chile .
If returned to Peru , he faces charges of corruption and of authorizing death squads .
Last week , Peru recalled its ambassador to Japan after a Japanese consular official in Chile visited Mr. Fujimori in jail .
Lima says Tokyo is interfering in Mr. Fujimori 's extradition process , but Tokyo insists it is treating him like any other Japanese citizen .
Cuba 's top diplomat in the United States says ailing President Fidel Castro will soon return to power .
Dagoberto Rodriguez told reporters Tuesday that Mr. Castro 's health has been improving daily and that he will soon assume his responsibilities again as president .
Castro ceded power to his brother Raul Castro at the end of July after undergoing intestinal surgery .
Since the surgery , Cuban officials have stated frequently that Mr. Castro was doing well as speculation swirled that his condition was worsening .
Earlier this month , Raul Castro said his 80 year old brother was " not dying . "
Venezuela 's vice president says military officials at the U.S. embassy in Caracas helped pass state secrets to the Pentagon .
Jose Vicente Rangel told reporters Friday that the Venezuelan government has confidential information proving the U.S. officials ' involvement .
He also alleged that embassy officials were involved in a brief coup against President Hugo Chavez in 2002 .
U.S. officials have long denied that charge .
Rangel first said on Wednesday that some low-level Venezuelan officials , both active and retired navy officers , had been caught passing information to the Pentagon .
The U.S. ambassador in Caracas , William Brownfield , said he has not been contacted by the Venezuelan government about the matter .
He said on Venezuelan television Thursday that when Caracas presents the United States with a statement , he will respond .
South Korean diplomats have taken custody of eight people believed to be North Koreans who entered a South Korean school in eastern China .
The North Koreans entered the school Tuesday in the city of Qingdao , along China 's eastern coast asking to be sent to South Korea .
South Korea 's Foreign Ministry says it has appealed to Beijing not to send the asylum seekers back to North Korea .
China recently sent home seven North Koreans who sought asylum in August at a South Korean school in the Chinese city of Yentai .
Beijing has an agreement with Pyongyang to return asylum seekers , but has allowed many to travel to South Korea through third countries .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into embassies and foreign schools in China in recent years seeking asylum .
Afghan officials say five people were killed and six others injured when an earthquake struck near the country 's eastern border with Pakistan .
A Defense Ministry spokesman , General Mohammed Zahir Azimi , said several homes were destroyed in the quake in Zabul province , correcting an earlier statement that the quake struck in neighboring Paktika province .
The spokesman said that Army rescue teams and doctors were in the region assessing the damage and helping villagers .
Pakistan 's Seismological Center in the city of Peshawar said two quakes were registered along the border area early Sunday .
War-shattered Afghanistan does not have a meteorological agency that can provide information about the scale of earthquakes .
Afghanistan was spared the devastation caused by a massive October 8 earthquake in neighboring Pakistan and in India .
A U.S. report has criticized the Federal Bureau of Investigation for missing key information about terrorists planning the September 11 , 2001 attacks , more than a year before the strike .
The Justice Department issued the report Thursday , saying FBI officials had at least five chances to discover two of the airline hijackers as they prepared for the attacks , but failed to do so .
In one case , it says an agent working for the Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) was blocked by a supervisor from sending information on the hijackers to FBI officials .
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told NBC 's Today show that reforms have been made to increase intelligence sharing among U.S. authorities , following the attacks .
Publication of the report had been stalled for a year , due in part to legal challenges by Zacarias Moussaoui , who pleaded guilty this year to a role in the attacks .
Presumed U.S. Republican presidential nominee John McCain says Thursday 's U.S. Supreme Court ruling on detainees at Guantanamo Bay is one of the worst in American history .
McCain said at a town hall meeting Friday in the U.S. state of New Jersey that detainees at Guantanamo are enemy combatants , and thus do not get the same rights as U.S. citizens .
He said the ruling will lead to many lawsuits against the government .
McCain 's Democratic rival , Barack Obama , praised the Supreme Court ruling .
In a statement after the ruling was announced , he said the decision ensures that U.S. officials can protect the country and bring terrorists to justice , while also protecting core American values .
Obama also said the ruling is an important step toward re-establishing the credibility of the United States as a nation committed to the rule of law .
Ralston Purina Co. reported a 47 % decline in fourth-quarter earnings , reflecting restructuring costs as well as a more difficult pet food market .
The St. Louis company earned $ 45.2 million , or 65 cents a share , compared with $ 84.9 million , or $ 1.24 a share , a year earlier .
Sales in the latest period were $ 1.76 billion , a 13 % increase from last year 's $ 1.55 billion .
For the year ended Sept. 30 , Ralston earned $ 422.5 million , or $ 6.44 a share , up 8.9 % from $ 387.8 million , or $ 5.63 a share .
This year 's results included a gain of $ 70.2 million on the disposal of seafood operations .
Sales for the full year were $ 6.6 billion , up 13 % from $ 5.8 billion .
Ralston said its restructuring costs include the phase-out of a battery facility in Greenville , N.C. , the recent closing of a Hostess cake bakery in Cincinnati and a reduction in staff throughout the company .
The battery plant , which makes rechargeable nickel cadmium and carbon zinc products , will be closed over the next year or so , a spokesman said .
Ralston attributed its fourth-quarter slump partly to higher costs of ingredients in the pet food business as well as competitive pressures , which required higher advertising spending .
For the year , pet food volume was flat , the company said .
Its cereal division realized higher operating profit on volume increases , but also spent more on promotion .
The Continental Baking business benefited from higher margins on bread and on increased cake sales , it added .
Ralston said its Eveready battery unit was hurt by continuing economic problems in South America .
Ralston shares closed yesterday at $ 80.50 , off $ 1 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
The Israeli military says troops have shot and killed two armed Palestinian gunmen outside a Jewish settlement in the West Bank .
The military said the shootings occurred Tuesday at a settlement near the West Bank town of Nablus .
Reuters quotes Palestinian sources as saying the two men belonged to the militant al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
Earlier today , Palestinians say a teenager was shot dead and another youth was wounded near Ramallah by Israeli gunfire during a stone-throwing protest against the barrier fence that Israel is building in the West Bank .
Israeli sources say troops were not involved in the shooting .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld is in Algeria , in what officials believe is the first such visit by a U.S. defense secretary .
Secretary Rumsfeld says he came to Algeria because it has become a good partner in the war on terrorism .
He says the country has come a long way since the years when it was a staunch opponent of U.S. policy , as a member of the Non-Aligned Movement .
Now , Algerian forces are preparing to participate in a NATO counter-terrorism operation in the Mediterranean , starting in June .
Algeria is also one of the most active participants in the U.S. Trans-Saharan Counter-Terrorism Initiative .
A senior U.S. official , who spoke on condition of anonymity says the United States wants to further expand military relations with Algeria .
But , he says , it also wants the Algerian government to think more creatively about how to implement greater political reforms .
Taleban militants in Afghanistan bombed a convoy carrying a provincial governor and later opened fire on the vehicles , killing one official .
Authorities said the governor of eastern Lagham province was unhurt in the attack Saturday .
They said one official in the provincial government was killed by gunfire .
A Taleban spokesman claimed responsibility for the attack .
Police said they had detained several suspects .
Meanwhile , Afghan officials said a roadside bomb killed six members of a security force in eastern Paktia province .
In Kandahar province , two NATO soldiers were killed and three wounded by militants firing rocket propelled grenades and small arms .
Coalition officials did not release the nationality of the troops involved .
Friday , a suicide attack on a NATO convoy in Kandahar killed one NATO soldier and eight Afghan civilians .
A U.S. State Department spokesman says North Korea 's chief nuclear negotiator Kim Kye Kwan and his U.S. counterpart , Christopher Hill , are expected to meet in New York later this week .
Sean McCormack was responding to media reports that Vice Foreign Minister Kim will visit San Francisco on Thursday for a lecture at Stanford and then will head to New York for a meeting with Assistant Secretary of State Hill .
He said the two sides were still working through the logistics and a date .
The planned trip was first reported Saturday by South Korean media .
Earlier this month , North Korea agreed to close its main nuclear facility in Yongbyong and allow atomic energy inspectors in the country within 60 days in exchange for energy aid .
North Korea expelled IAEA weapons inspectors in late December , 2002 , and officially withdrew from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in January 2003 .
The Discovery Channel and NASA have restored 50 years of history for the U.S. space agency 's archives .
Discovery has used the material to produce a documentary series called , When We Left Earth :
The NASA Missions .
It will be broadcast internationally next month .
This week in Washington , former senator and astronaut John Glenn joined members of the U.S. Congress , officials from NASA and others for a sneak preview .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has dismissed opposition protests over the suspension of the country 's top judge , saying his critics are trying to politicize a constitutional and judicial issue .
Thousands of people across Pakistan protested Monday against the removal of Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudry earlier this month on allegations of abusing authority .
Lawyers and opposition parties say General Musharraf is trying to interfere with the independence of the judiciary .
He insists there is little public support for the protests .
During a speech Tuesday in Rawalpindi , the Pakistani leader also denied the government has been involved in the disappearance of hundreds of people since Pakistan joined the U.S.-led war on terrorism in 2001 .
Human rights groups say the government has detained hundreds of people in secret , accusing them of links to extremist groups .
African Union officials say rebels in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have released most of the 18 kidnapped AU workers following negotiations .
The workers were taken Sunday in the town of Tine on the Chad-Sudan border .
Officials say the 18 included military observers and civilian police , and an official from a Darfur rebel group , the Justice and Equality Movement .
African Union spokesman Noureddine Mezni says it is unclear how many of the hostages were released .
AU officials say the kidnappers are believed to be from a dissident faction of the Justice and Equality Movement .
More than six-thousand African Union peacekeepers are in Darfur to monitor a cease-fire between pro-government forces and non-Arab rebels .
Two AU peacekeepers from Nigeria and two civilian contractors were killed Saturday in an ambush the AU blamed on the main Darfur rebel group , the Sudan Liberation Army .
A third peacekeeper died Sunday from wounds .
Israeli warplanes have dropped leaflets warning Gaza residents to stay clear of the border , after Palestinian militants fired at least 10 mortar shells at Israel .
The leaflets warned residents not to come within 300 meters of the border fence , and to avoid involvement with weapons smugglers along the Gaza-Egypt border .
The Israeli army says some of the mortar shells landed in Israel near the Kerem Shalom crossing with the Gaza Strip .
There were no reports of casualties or damage .
The development comes one year after Israel carried out a three-week offensive against Hamas militants in Gaza .
Israel says the operation was aimed at halting rockets attacks into Israel .
Palestinian militants have since carried out sporadic rocket and mortar attacks that have provoked Israeli military strikes .
At least 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in the fighting during Israel 's Gaza offensive .
North Korean state radio reportedly has raised the question of a dynastic transfer of power from Kim Jong-il to one of his sons when the Stalinist leader dies .
Mr. Kim , who turns 63 next month , inherited power from his father Kim Il-Sung in 1994 , establishing what has been called the world 's first Communist dynasty .
South Korean media report Monday that a recent political commentary on North Korean radio , heard last Thursday , referred to comments by the elder Kim saying his son or even his grandson should complete his work if he falls short of completing the country 's " revolution . "
Kim Jong-il has three sons , the eldest being 33-year-old Kim Jong-Nam .
His two rivals for a possible succession are 23-year-old Kim Jong-Chul and 21-year-old Kim Jong-Woon .
Mexican President-elect Felipe Calderon has called for reconciliation in his first mass victory celebration since his narrow election victory in July .
Mr. Calderon told supporters in an open air bullring in Mexico City Sunday that he will work to create jobs , cut crime and fight poverty .
Meanwhile , opposition candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has agreed to temporarily end a mass protest in downtown Mexico City .
Lopez Obrador called for the halt to allow the army to hold its traditional September 16th military parade through the city center .
He said Sunday that demonstrators , who are protesting alleged election fraud , have nothing against the military .
Lopez Obrador also called for stepped up demonstrations on September 15th when outgoing Mexican President Vicente Fox is due to make an annual address to the nation .
Last week Mexico 's top electoral court officially declared Mr. Calderon the winner of the disputed election .
Two new economic reports say U.S. consumer confidence fell in March while home prices dropped in January .
Consumer confidence fell sharply , by 11.9 points to a reading of 64.5 , to a five-year low as consumers worried about tight credit , a troubled job market , rising prices , and falling home values .
Economists watch consumer confidence because consumer demand drives about two-thirds of the U.S. economy .
The bad news was reinforced by a separate report from a business group , Standard & Poor 's / Case-Shiller index , which said U.S. home prices fell around 11 percent from a year ago in the nation 's largest cities .
Falling home values make it difficult for consumers to borrow money with the value of their homes as collateral .
The problem can further slow consumer spending .
Afghanistan 's anti-drug force commander says foreign help to combat trade in opium and heroin has been very slow , but he predicted big gains in the anti-narcotic campaign in the coming year .
The international community has committed hundreds of millions of dollars to train Afghan police in destroying laboratories and opium crops , as well as to fund projects to help farmers grow legal crops .
General Mohammed Daud told reporters the international community must do more to provide alternative sources of income for farmers being forced to stop growing opium poppies .
He said the donor countries have not yet fully delivered on their promises .
The general said 1,300 police officers were being deployed this month from Kabul to provinces where local authorities need help to enforce the government 's anti-poppy campaign .
He said 2006 will be the year when his special force will arrest all smugglers , especially those who have links with the government .
Orthodox Christians across the globe who retain the Julian calendar are celebrating Christmas Monday .
For many , the holiday season often starts with a midnight Mass .
In Russia , President Vladimir Putin attended Mass in a church north of Moscow .
Mikhail Saakashvili , fresh from his victorious and controversial Georgian presidential bid , attended the same Mass as his political rival , Levan Gachechiladze .
Greek Orthodox Patriarch Theofilos the Third welcomed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to the midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem .
Russia 's Interfax news agency says Christmas this year also will be celebrated in outer space .
Yuri Malenchenko , the Russian flight engineer aboard the International Space Station , will mark Orthodox Christmas today with his two American crew members .
The child molestation trial of pop superstar Michael Jackson is underway in southern California , where scores of fans turned out to show their support .
Lawyers at a Santa Barbara county court Monday began screening the first of up to 750 potential jurors for the trial , which could last several months .
Mr. Jackson faces 10 charges involving alleged sexual molestation of a child under the age of 14 .
The singer has pleaded not guilty , saying he is completely innocent .
Mr. Jackson gave a V-for-victory sign as he entered the courtroom Monday , dressed entirely in white and surrounded by bodyguards .
In a video statement released Sunday , Mr. Jackson criticized recent leaks of grand jury testimony on the case , calling them " malicious , disgusting and false . "
Have you been following this steroid scandal ? This is first time in baseball history that the players have more additives in them than the hot dogs .
A top Spanish judge has approved a request by public prosecutors for a probe of suspected links between the Basque separatist group ETA and Colombia 's Marxist rebel FARC movement .
National Court Judge Eloy Velasco acted on a petition prosecutors filed last month as they sought to indict five ETA members on suspicion of collaborating with the Colombian rebels .
The prosecutors said the two groups have held joint training sessions in the use of explosives .
They said FARC and ETA have a relationship stretching back to at least 1993 .
ETA is blamed for more than 820 deaths in its 40-year violent campaign for the creation of an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
The FARC is Colombia 's most powerful rebel movement .
Colombia , the United States and the European Union designate the FARC as a terrorist group .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Washington has no plans to have a military base in Tajikistan , or to increase its military presence abroad .
Ms. Rice made the comment Thursday at a news conference in Dushanbe , following a meeting with Tajik Foreign Minister Talbak Nazarov .
The top U.S. diplomat said that , on the contrary , the United States is reducing the number of its military bases across the world .
Earlier in the day , Ms. Rice held talks with President Emomali Rakhmonov that focused on cooperation in democracy building and the war against terrorism and drug trafficking .
Ms. Rice arrived in Tajikistan - the last stop on her Central Asian tour - from Kazakhstan , where she denied suggestions that Washington was putting its oil interests ahead of democracy in the Central Asian nation .
The Fitch rating agency slashed BP 's credit rating drastically six steps from AA to BBB Tuesday , on concerns about the cost of cleaning up the firm 's Gulf of Mexico oil spill .
U.S. political leaders are asking BP to set aside billions of dollars in a special fund to be sure claims will be paid .
Some estimates put cleanup and other costs as high at $ 40 billion .
Rating agencies give lenders guidance on how likely a particular borrower is to repay its debt , and a lower rating is likely to mean higher interest charges .
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be deemed the handsomest .
The Monkey came with the rest and presented , with all a mother 's tenderness , a flat-nosed , hairless , ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the promised reward .
A general laugh saluted her on the presentation of her son .
She resolutely said , " I know not whether Jupiter will allot the prize to my son , but this I do know , that he is at least in the eyes of me his mother , the dearest , handsomest , and most beautiful of all . "
The Communist Party of the Philippines says it has directed its armed unit , the New People 's Army , to go on an offensive nationwide .
In a statement issued Sunday , the CPP also said it would consider forming an alliance with any of the parties seeking to oust President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo from power .
The CPP said its list of potential allies include disgruntled military and police units and conservative political parties .
On Friday , President Arroyo declared that government troops would observe four days of unilateral cease-fire with communist rebels to mark the Christian holiday season .
The days of the cease-fire are Christmas Eve , Christmas Day , New Year 's Eve and New Year 's Day .
The government and communist rebels have been engaged in armed conflict for more than 40 years .
Hospitals in Bombay are struggling to cope with hundreds of patients infected by waterborne diseases in the aftermath of western India 's monsoon floods , and they say the death toll is rising .
A government health official says illnesses caused by contaminated water have killed at least 66 people , and there are fears the true death toll could be far higher , since many cases have not been reported .
Thousands of people seeking medical care crowded into the city 's handful of state-run hospitals , Friday .
The facilities are short of beds , and many patients are forced to sleep on floors or wait for care in the streets outside the hospitals .
Bombay 's medical crisis continues , two weeks after record monsoon floods that inundated the city killed more than 1,000 people .
The Nepalese military says a fierce battle between government troops and Maoist rebels has left at least five soldiers and an unknown number of guerillas dead .
A military statement says the clash occurred Friday in the western Kapilvastu district as security forces were trying to clear roadblocks set up by the rebels .
The statement says the rebels , who were hiding in the area , set off bombs targeting the security forces , who retaliated with heavy gunfire .
The Maoists are fighting to topple Nepal 's constitutional monarchy and replace it with a communist state .
In an unrelated development , Nepalese authorities released a journalist held in detention by security forces for almost 21 months .
The Federation of Nepalese Journalists says Bhaikaji Ghimire was released Thursday afternoon on the Supreme Court 's order .
U.S. President Barack Obama called India a critical partner during talks with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at the G-20 summit in London .
The leaders of the world 's two largest democracies affirmed their nations ' enduring friendship when they met for the first time Thursday .
Mr. Obama called India a global power that will be helpful in dealing with climate change , poverty , science and innovation .
The Indian prime minister called Mr. Obama a visionary leader who has given hope to all of " the oppressed people " of the world .
Mr. Singh said India is ready to chart a new path of collaboration in diverse fields , including the challenges of terrorism .
The Obama administration has said defeating Islamic extremism in South Asia requires a comprehensive , regional approach .
Pakistani police say a suicide bomber crashed an explosives-laden car into a police checkpoint killing at least three officers and wounding 17 others .
Officials say Monday 's early morning attack occurred in northwest Pakistan , near the North Waziristan tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
No one has claimed responsibility for the incident .
Many Taliban and al-Qaida militants fled to Pakistan from neighboring Afghanistan after the U.S.-led invasion in Afghanistan toppled the Taliban in late 2001 .
Insurgents have a strong presence in Pakistan 's volatile tribal areas .
Oil giant Shell has resumed production at two flowstations after Nigerian authorities intervened to resolve a dispute with villagers .
Shell reopened the facilities Tuesday , nearly one month after a protest by members of the remote fishing village of Kula stopped the flow of some 100,000 barrels of crude a day .
On December 5 , the villagers seized two Shell oil facilities and one from ChevronTexaco , demanding jobs and investment in the local community .
The protesters left the flowstations several days later but threatened to attack again unless their demands were met .
Last week , ChevronTexaco struck a deal , allowing it to resume oil production in the village .
Multinational oil companies in Nigeria are routinely targeted by impoverished locals , who say their communities are deprived of the oil wealth pumped from their lands .
A team of inspectors from the United Nations nuclear agency has visited a heavy water reactor in Iran .
Iranian state media reports Monday 's inspection of the Arak facility took five hours .
The facility will produce plutonium once it is completed .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini says another team from the IAEA will visit Iran on August 6 to work out a framework for inspecting the Natanz uranium enrichment facility .
Iran has agreed to allow the inspections as part of a deal to resolve questions about its nuclear activities .
Plutonium and highly enriched uranium can be used to build nuclear weapons .
The U.N. Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions on Iran because of its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment .
The United States and its Western allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons , but Iran says its atomic program is for peaceful purposes .
Palestinian factions have agreed to extend an open-ended truce with Israel in exchange for a halt to Israeli attacks and the release of prisoners .
The Palestinian groups made the decision Thursday , following a meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in Cairo , Egypt .
In a statement , the groups said continuation of the cease-fire depends on Israel 's commitment to halt all assaults against Palestinians .
Mr. Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared a cease-fire at a February 8 summit meeting in Egypt .
Mr. Abbas met with Palestinian militants in Cairo to persuade them to join the cease-fire .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says Palestinians must disarm and dismantle the militant groups , in addition to agreeing to a cease-fire .
A key Israeli ultra-Orthodox religious party has agreed to join forces with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , clearing the way for a unity government needed to push through Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Sharon 's Likud coalition lost its parliamentary majority last year , when some right-wing parties opposed to the Gaza withdrawal quit the government .
Wednesday 's decision by the United Torah Judaism party to join with Mr. Sharon gives the Israeli leader at least 66 votes in the 120-member Knesset .
Last week , the opposition Labor party also agreed to join the coalition .
Hours after the United Torah decision , the prime minister said he expects to present parliament with a national unity government by next week .
The withdrawal of 8,200 Israeli settlers from Gaza and four small West Bank enclaves is set to begin later this year .
Arnold Schwarzenegger , the Republican governor of California , is scheduled to address this year 's conference of Britain 's Conservative Party .
Party officials said Sunday in London that Schwarzenegger would speak about climate change at the party 's annual meeting .
British conservative leader David Cameron said Schwarzenegger had shown tremendous leadership in pioneering measures to protect the environment .
Schwarzenegger signed into law last year a measure that imposed emissions limits on utilities , refineries and manufacturing plants .
The goal is to cut greenhouse gas emissions 25 percent by the year 2020 .
He said California could set the standard for the United States and the rest of the world .
The death toll from two bombings in Pakistan 's eastern city of Lahore has risen to six , with at least 26 others wounded .
Local police say the first bomb placed under the seat of a bicycle went off Thursday near a national monument - Minar-e-Pakistan .
Minutes later , a second device detonated in a crowded shopping district in a central part of the city .
After the bombings , police stepped up security across the region while investigators said they were probing various leads .
There has been no immediate claim of responsibility .
In an unrelated development , Pakistani security forces arrested at least 10 suspected militants and recovered weapons in the remote North Waziristan region - the scene of a major military offensive last week against al-Qaida-linked militants .
A European investigator says there appears to be evidence that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency abducted people in Europe and transferred them between countries illegally .
Swiss Senator Dick Marty made the comment in a report to the Council of Europe , which brings together lawmakers from democratic European countries to discuss such issues as human rights .
U.S. newspapers last month reported that the CIA has been using European airports and airspace to transport terror suspects to secret prisons in eastern Europe .
Mr. Marty criticized U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice for not providing information or explanation of the issue during her recent visit to Europe .
On Monday , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said his government has found no evidence the Bush administration requested permission to fly terror suspects through Britain or its airspace .
The largest U.S. automaker , General Motors , is getting its fourth new chief executive officer in 18 months , Dan Akerson .
He takes over in September just as GM has posted its second consecutive profitable quarter .
That is a major turnaround for the company that emerged from bankruptcy with the aid of $ 50 billion in emergency government loans .
Akerson is a member of the GM board of directors , but most of his business experience is in running , buying , and selling major telecommunications companies .
While the 61-year-old executive lacks manufacturing experience , analysts say he is well regarded on Wall Street , which will be helpful as the company gets ready to make a major stock offering .
Described as quiet and private , Akerson is expected to become the face of GM in an industry where the CEO is often required to be the biggest salesman .
President Bush Wednesday will attend six events related to his inauguration for a second term in the White House .
Mr. Bush plans to make stops at a luncheon , a pop music concert , three candlelight dinners , and a reception for his Texas supporters called the " Black Tie and Boots Ball . "
The concert , dubbed " A Celebration of Freedom , " features The Temptations , country singer Kenny Chesney , and a drop-in by the U.S. Army 's parachute team .
Sub-freezing temperatures and a forecast of snow are not expected to put a chill on the celebrations .
The president will take the oath of office Thursday outside the U.S. Capitol building , watched by unprecedented security and a crowd expected to number several hundred thousand people .
The government of Kenya says it has targeted thieves , not political opponents , in a corruption investigation that has caused three cabinet ministers to resign their posts .
Government spokesman Alfred Mutua said Sunday some have accused the government of witch-hunting , but Mutua said the government will not discriminate in its effort to bring thieves to justice .
Mutua told reporters the signs of corruption were all around , citing holes in recently built roads .
He said those involved in what he called " shoddy deals " would be held accountable .
On Friday , thousands of protesters took to the streets of Nairobi , demanding the resignations of Vice President Moody Awori and civil service chief Francis Muthaura .
Their names have been mentioned in connection with a multi-million dollar scandal known as the " Anglo Leasing " affair .
Israeli police have removed a large group of illegal Jewish squatters trying to set up makeshift settlement outposts near the West Bank city of Hebron .
Police say at least 150 Israeli youths were evacuated Thursday as they occupied several hilltops sites in the area .
Authorities say the youths were removed before they were able to erect permanent structures .
Israeli news reports say several people were injured during the evictions , including a deputy police commander who was hospitalized with an eye injury .
Police say at least three of the settlers were arrested .
The Yediot Aharonot newspaper says Army Chief of Staff Dan Halutz was sharply critical of the youths ' conduct .
The paper quoted him as blaming settler leadership for encouraging what he called " thuggish " behavior by the protesters .
George W. Bush
President Bush is to deliver a speech in Washington Wednesday in which he will offer proposals aimed at reining in high energy prices .
Senior administration officials say Mr. Bush will encourage construction of new nuclear power plants and propose making closed military bases available for new oil refineries .
The lack of adequate oil refining capacity is often cited by experts as one reason for high gasoline prices in the United States .
Officials say Mr. Bush will also call for the further use of hybrid automobiles and those that burn clean diesel fuel by adding them to a list of vehicles eligible for tax credits .
The speech will be Mr. Bush 's second on energy issues in a week .
Egyptian authorities say the death toll from the collapse of a residential building last week has risen to 35 .
The 12-story building in the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria crumbled on Monday .
Rescue workers have pulled three survivors from the rubble .
The building collapsed as construction workers carried out repairs on the first floor .
Prosecutors have issued arrest warrants for the building 's owner and a contractor responsible for repair work .
Buildings frequently collapse in Egypt because of poor maintenance and inferior construction in violation of regulations .
Egyptian authorities say the building was erected 25 years ago without a permit .
It was originally seven stories , but five more were added later .
The Netherlands has defeated Japan , 2-1 while Benin and Australia played to a 1-1 draw on the first day of the World Under-20 men 's football ( soccer ) tournament in the Netherlands .
Ryan Babel scored one goal and set PSV Eindhoven striker Ibrahim Afellay 's goal for the Dutch .
Sota Hirayama scored for Japan in the 68th minute .
Meanwhile , Australia had to rally from one goal down to tie Benin , 1-1 , after Razak Omotoyossi scored in the 32nd minute .
Australia 's Nick Ward tied the match in the 59th minute .
The top two teams in each of the six groups plus the four best teams among those ranked third after the first round qualify for the round of 16 .
The winners in the round of 16 make the quarterfinals .
The tournament final is scheduled for July 5th .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah has outlined its terms for further prisoner exchanges with Israel .
Mr. Ban Wednesday said he received a letter from Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah .
He said Nasrallah indicated his willingness to resolve the remaining Israeli missing in action humanitarian cases of the 1980s .
But before Hezbollah acts , the Lebanese Shi'ite leader wants the release of hundreds of " minors , women and elderly people being held in Israeli detention " as well as detainees suffering from handicaps and injuries .
Last week , Israel released five prisoners and the remains of some 200 militants to Lebanon in exchange for the bodies of two Israeli soldiers whose capture two years ago triggered a 34-day war .
Wednesday , Hezbollah transferred the remains of 114 of those militants to Syria .
Hundreds of relatives greeted the bodies as they were handed over at the Lebanese-Syrian border .
Investigators in Ethiopia say police killed 193 people during anti-government protests last year - a figure nearly triple the official death toll .
VOA has obtained a report from an Ethiopian government-backed inquiry team charged with determining if police used excessive force in ending the June and November 2005 protests .
The team concluded that police did use excessive force , employing means such as shooting , strangling , and beating demonstrators .
It also says six police officers were killed in the protests .
There has been no public comment on the report from Ethiopian officials .
At least one member of the inquiry team , Judge Wolde-Michael Meshesha , has left Ethiopia for fear of political reprisals .
The protests followed elections won by the ruling party that opposition groups say were rigged .
The European Union and U.S.-based Carter Center expressed concerns over the vote and the post-election violence .
Indonesia 's Health Ministry says a 12-year-old boy has died of bird-flu .
Officials say the boy , who had tested positive for the H5N1 strain of the virus , died Saturday in a hospital in Tangerang .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , it would bring to 88 the number of people who have died from the virus in Indonesia .
More than 200 people worldwide have died from bird flu since the outbreak began in 2003 , mostly in Asian nations .
Indonesia has been sharply criticized for being slow to act in its fight to control bird flu , which has spread easily in a nation where many people keep chickens and other birds in their backyards and homes .
Bird flu is usually transmitted directly from infected birds .
However , experts fear the virus could mutate into a form easily transmissible by human-to-human contact .
A new Israeli public opinion poll indicates most Israelis want Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to resign because of the way he handled the war against Hezbollah in Lebanon .
Results of the survey published Friday in the Yediot Ahronot daily newspaper show 63 percent of those questioned say Mr. Olmert should step down .
A similar poll published a week ago showed 41 percent said they want Mr. Olmert to resign .
The new survey also indicates that most Israelis view the U.N.-brokered ceasefire as a failure for Israel because Hezbollah leadership remained intact and the two Israeli soldiers , whose capture last month sparked the war , are still in captivity .
The survey also indicates a strong swing toward the hard-line Likud party led by former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and away from Mr. Olmert 's centrist Kadima party .
An international human rights group says Kuwaiti should stop arresting and deporting expatriate supporters of Egyptian pro-reform activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Mohammed ElBaradei .
New York-based Human Rights Watch says Kuwait should release all of the Egyptians still in custody , and allow them and those already deported to return to their homes in Kuwait .
Kuwaiti authorities released around 21 Egyptian residents of Kuwait Saturday , and deported them to Egypt .
Human Rights Watch says some of the Egyptians were detained after they attended a meeting in support of ElBaradei on April 8 .
Others were detained the next day during a meeting to discuss the arrests .
ElBaradei , a former chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency , is leading a campaign for political reform in Egypt .
He also has expressed a willingness to run against President Hosni Mubarak in an election next year on condition the vote is free and fair .
International health workers in Angola say they are still struggling to end an outbreak of the Marburg virus , which has killed 156 people in the southern African nation .
Representatives of Doctors without Borders and the U.N. children 's fund expressed concern Wednesday that the death toll continues to rise , despite emergency efforts .
The Associated Press quoted Health Minister Sebastiao Veloso as saying no new cases have been reported outside northwestern Uige province , where the rare virus was first spotted .
Hospital workers are using isolation units and protective clothing to limit the spread of the virus , which causes fever , diarrhea and bleeding .
Angola 's government and aid groups have also launched campaigns to warn people that the illness can spread through contact with body fluids .
Indian veterinary officials are killing thousands of birds this week to try to control the country 's latest outbreak of avian influenza .
Authorities said Thursday that about 44,000 birds will be killed in West Bengal state 's Malda district .
An outbreak of the H5N1 virus has killed about 1,000 chickens in Malda in recent days .
West Bengal is struggling with recurrent bird flu infections .
About 50,000 birds were slaughtered earlier this month after an outbreak in Murshidabad district .
Another massive outbreak last January led to the slaughter of nearly four million chickens .
The virus hit 13 of West Bengal 's 19 districts and was considered India 's worst bird flu outbreak .
No cases of human infection have been reported so far in India .
Normal people believe that if it is n't broke , do n't fix it .
Engineers believe that if it is n't broke , it does n't have enough features yet .
Iraqi authorities say they have found a mass grave containing at least 20 bodies in Karbala , a holy city for Shi'ite Muslims .
They say the grave was found by construction workers who were laying a pipeline near the mausoleum of Imam Hussein , which is the Shi'ites ' holiest shrine .
Authorities are examining the remains , which they say include the bodies of women and children .
They believe those in the grave were victims of Saddam Hussein 's bloody suppression of a Shi'ite uprising after the Gulf War in 1991 .
More than 200 suspected mass graves have been reported since the fall of Saddam 's regime in 2003 .
Most of them were found in Iraq 's Shi'ite-dominated south and northern Kurdish region .
Health officials in Turkey say a 12-year-old girl with symptoms of bird flu has died while her younger brother has tested positive for the virus and is in critical condition .
The girl , Fatma Ozcan , had been hospitalized in the eastern city of Van with her five-year-old brother Muhammed for several days .
Late Sunday , the Turkish Health Ministry said the boy has tested positive for bird flu .
Doctors were performing tests to determine whether the H5N1 strain killed the girl .
Initial tests were negative .
Turkey previously found 18 people testing positive for bird flu , including three children from the same family who died in a village near Van last week .
Those deaths were the first reported bird flu fatalities outside eastern Asia , where more than 70 infected people have died since 2003
Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is scheduled to meet later Tuesday in Washington with President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
Among other issues , Lavrov is expected to discuss Russia 's attempt to negotiate a compromise on the Iranian nuclear situation .
Meanwhile , the influential Council on Foreign Relations has released a report saying U.S.-Russian relations are heading in the wrong direction .
The foreign policy organization says Russia is trying to curtail U.S. and NATO access to Central Asian military bases .
It also accuses Russia of using energy supplies as a political weapon , and says Russian political institutions are becoming corrupt .
The head of the independent task force that wrote the report later said Russia could be thrown out of the G-8 if it does not cooperate on major world problems .
The G-8 comprises Britain , Canada , France , Germany , Italy , Japan , the United States and Russia .
Iran 's economy is marked by an inefficient state sector , reliance on the oil sector , which provides the majority of government revenues , and statist policies , which create major distortions throughout the system .
Private sector activity is typically limited to small-scale workshops , farming , and services .
Price controls , subsidies , and other rigidities weigh down the economy , undermining the potential for private-sector-led growth .
Significant informal market activity flourishes .
The legislature in late 2009 passed President Mahmud AHMADI-NEJAD 's bill to reduce subsidies , particularly on food and energy .
The bill would phase out subsidies - which benefit Iran 's upper and middle classes the most - over three to five years and replace them with cash payments to Iran 's lower classes .
However , the start of the program was delayed repeatedly throughout 2010 over fears of public reaction to higher prices .
This is the most extensive economic reform since the government implemented gasoline rationing in 2007 .
The recovery of world oil prices in the last year increased Iran 's oil export revenue by at least $ 10 billion over 2009 , easing some of the financial impact of the newest round of international sanctions .
Although inflation has fallen substantially since the mid-2000s , Iran continues to suffer from double-digit unemployment and underemployment .
Underemployment among Iran 's educated youth has convinced many to seek jobs overseas , resulting in a significant " brain drain . "
A report by the U.S. Defense Department estimates about 26,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed or wounded in attacks by insurgents since January last year .
The Pentagon provided the estimate in a report to Congress this month .
It says about 80 percent of all insurgent attacks were directed at coalition forces , but that the majority of all casualties , 80 percent , are among Iraqi civilians .
Further , the Pentagon says the number of Iraqi casualties has risen , from about 26 a day between the months of January and March 2004 , to about 64 a day in the period between August 29 of this year and September 16 .
Violence continued Saturday , when at least 25 people died following a bomb explosion in a Shi'ite village north of Baghdad .
Despite being the smallest country geographically in Central America , El Salvador has the third largest economy in the region .
The economy took a hit from the global recession and real GDP contracted by 3.5 % in 2009 .
The economy began a slow recovery in 2010 on the back of improved export and remittances figures .
Remittances accounted for 16 % of GDP in 2009 , and about a third of all households receive these transfers .
In 2006 El Salvador was the first country to ratify the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA-DR ) , which has bolstered the export of processed foods , sugar , and ethanol , and supported investment in the apparel sector amid increased Asian competition and the expiration of the Multi-Fiber Agreement in 2005 .
El Salvador has promoted an open trade and investment environment , and has embarked on a wave of privatizations extending to telecom , electricity distribution , banking , and pension funds .
In late 2006 , the government and the Millennium Challenge Corporation signed a five-year , $ 461 million compact to stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty in the country 's northern region , the primary conflict zone during the civil war , through investments in education , public services , enterprise development , and transportation infrastructure .
With the adoption of the US dollar as its currency in 2001 , El Salvador lost control over monetary policy .
Any counter-cyclical policy response to the downturn must be through fiscal policy , which is constrained by legislative requirements for a two-thirds majority to approve any international financing , and by already high levels of debt .
North Korea is criticizing the United States for keeping it on a list of nations that support terrorism .
An annual U.S. State Department report on state-sponsored terrorism issued last month said North Korea is among several nations that maintain ties to terrorists .
Pyongyang 's state-run news agency says the report proves the Bush Administration is frantic to overthrow the government of North Korea , and called the United States the kingpin of state-sponsored terrorism .
A South Korean newspaper , Chosun Ilbo , said Tuesday that U.S. spy satellites have spotted activity that could mean North Korea is preparing for a nuclear test .
However , South Korean officials are denying the report .
Monday U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said there should be no doubt about the United States ' ability to deter a North Korean nuclear threat .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has apologized for a corruption scandal that is rocking his government and threatening his own popularity .
In a televised address Friday , Mr. da Silva said his ruling Workers ' Party must apologize for its mistakes .
The party is embroiled in a scandal over allegations it bought votes in Congress .
There are also accusations that private businessmen bribed lawmakers .
Earlier Friday , a public opinion poll indicated the Brazilian leader would lose a re-election bid in 2006 because of the growing scandal .
On Thursday , the publicist behind Mr. da Silva 's 2002 presidential campaign , Duda Mendonca told congressional investigators that he was partly paid for his services with illegal funds from an offshore bank .
Several lawmakers have resigned since the corruption scandal surfaced in June .
The United Nations is launching a massive campaign in Burma this week to fight the spread of dengue fever in areas hard-hit by last month 's deadly cyclone .
Starting Tuesday , hundreds of volunteers will begin fanning out across the main city of Rangoon and into the Irrawaddy Delta , where the U.N. estimates more than two million people have been affected by the storm .
The groups will be looking for mosquito larvae that breed in pools of standing water during the monsoon season .
That season began early last month when Cyclone Nargis ripped across the delta , leaving more than 130,000 people dead and missing .
U.N. officials fear the number of cases of the mosquito-borne disease could be higher than usual this year because many people have lost their homes and are more exposed to mosquitoes .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has praised the lasting peace forged by the Dayton Peace Accords a decade ago , but urged Serbs to do more to bring top fugitive war crimes suspects in the Balkans to justice .
Writing in Wednesday 's Wall Street Journal , Mr. Clinton said the U.S.-brokered agreement was not a perfect peace , but it ended Bosnia-Herzegovina 's ethnic conflict and provided for national security and a shared form of government .
However , he stressed that Serb authorities must continue to work toward arresting and transferring all indicted war crimes suspects , especially , Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic , to The Hague war crimes tribunal .
He said failure to do so will prevent the Balkans from breaking with the past .
The tribunal indicted the two fugitives for their roles in attacks on civilians during the Bosnian conflict .
China says it will again call on the European Union to lift its arms sales embargo during upcoming talks with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and EU officials .
Mr. Schroeder will be in China next week for talks with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
Afterwards , Mr. Wen will travel to the Netherlands to attend Wednesday 's China - European Union summit .
Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue says Beijing should not be expected to make any concessions on human rights to have the embargo lifted .
The European Union imposed the embargo in 1989 after China 's violent crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing 's Tiananmen Square .
A well-known Lebanese television journalist has been wounded by a bomb blast that damaged her car north of Beirut .
Security officials say May Shidiac of LBC television has been taken to a hospital in serious condition .
The bombing was the latest of several attacks against prominent Lebanese this year , including a journalist and a politician killed in separate attacks in June , and former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri who was assassinated in February .
All were outspoken critics of Syria .
Earlier Sunday , in Cairo , Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak urged his Syrian counterpart , Bashar al-Assad , to continue cooperating in a U.N. probe of the Hariri assassination .
A Mubarak spokesman urged the international community to refrain from pre-judging any Syrian role .
Four pro-Syrian former Lebanese security chiefs have been indicted in the killings .
On Friday , U.N. investigators finished questioning several Syrian officials .
It will issue a final report late next month .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has replaced his vice president and justice minister just days before he is inaugurated for a second term .
Mr. Chavez said in a television interview late Wednesday that the decision to replace Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel was not easy because he regards Rangel as a " star pitcher , " as in a baseball game , and respects him like a father .
In talking about the replacement of Justice Minister Jesse Chacon , Chavez alluded to a recent rise in crime and prison violence in Venezuela .
Psychiatrist and politician Jorge Rodriguez will become Venezuela 's new vice president , and parliamentary deputy Pedro Carreno will be the new justice minister .
Mr. Chavez will be inaugurated for a second six-year term on January 10 .
Mr. Chavez has said he hopes to merge all the political parties supporting him into one party .
He also wants to re-write the constitution .
President Bush has conveyed his greetings to Jewish Americans as they begin observing Rosh Hashanah , the Jewish New Year .
Mr. Bush released a statement Friday , offering his best wishes for the occasion and the start of the Days of Awe , in which Jews reflect on the past year and welcome the year to come .
At the sound of the Shofar , a musical instrument blown like a trumpet , Jews around the world are called to gather to celebrate Rosh Hashanah .
Mr. Bush says the period is also a time to reflect on the history of the Jewish people , from the days of Abraham to the present .
The president says throughout America 's history , Jewish Americans have strengthened and enriched the character of the nation .
President Bush says Taliban militants in Afghanistan were hit hard last year during military operations by U.S. , Afghan and NATO troops .
During a news conference Thursday , Mr. Bush said troops were on the offensive against a resurgent and increasingly violent Taliban movement .
However , the president also said it makes sense to review U.S. strategy in Afghanistan to figure out what works and what does not .
This week , the U.S. military said it is going to assess coalition strategy in Afghanistan in the wake of rising Taliban attacks .
Mr. Bush expressed concern that NATO allies might tire of what he called the hard work of securing Afghanistan and may want to withdraw .
He said the U.S. objective is to give them options - other than combat missions - in Afghanistan and to remind NATO allies that the job of securing the strife-torn country will take time .
Top U.S. and Japanese negotiators in nuclear disarmament talks with North Korea said the North must agree to a verification of its disarmament activities in writing .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill and his Japanese counterpart Akitaka Saiki met Tuesday in Tokyo ahead of six-nation talks in Beijing next week .
After the meeting , the two envoys told reporters they expect tough negotiations with North Korea .
They say the Beijing talks will focus on hammering out a document with a detailed list of verification measures .
Hill said the North must commit in writing to allow international inspectors to take samples from its nuclear facilities .
Washington said North Korea agreed to sampling during a meeting with Hill in October , but Pyongyang denies it .
North Korea has agreed to dismantle its nuclear activities in exchange for aid and energy , but has halted the process several times .
Hill plans to hold talks Wednesday with Saiki and the South Korean negotiator Kim Sook before heading for Singapore , where he is meeting with North Korean officials .
Financial regulators in the United States have introduced new rules intended to curb a trading strategy that benefits investors when stock prices fall , and that has been blamed for market turmoil .
New rules from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that went into effect Thursday restrict certain types of so-called short-selling .
Short-selling occurs when a trader borrows shares in a stock from a broker to sell .
If the stock price goes down , the trader buys back more shares at a cheaper price , returns the broker 's portion and keeps the rest .
Regulators in Great Britain have enacted a temporary ban on short-selling .
New York state 's attorney general , Andrew Cuomo , says he is launching an investigation into instances of illegal short-selling , in which traders or brokers spread false information about the deals .
A UN report on human rights abuses in Ivory Coast has been published in the Paris-based newspaper Liberation , several days after it was leaked to Ivorian papers .
The report outlines examples of death squads , mass executions , torture and rapes in the country over the past two years .
VOA West Africa correspondent Nico Colombant , based in Abidjan , talked with English to Africa reporter William Eagle about the abuses .
Correspondent Colombant says authorities are probably directing them , although it is difficult to determine who exactly is giving the orders .
Among those abused are women , and he says soldiers and rebels engage in rape .
He says warfare and economic hard times have led to a growth in prostitution , which is sometimes controlled by soldiers .
UN peacekeepers have also been seen soliciting prostitutes , which could lead to the spread of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases
Mexico 's state-run oil company , Pemex , said its 2008 production of crude oil fell 9.2 percent from 2007 .
Pemex said Wednesday that daily production last year dropped to almost 2.8 million barrels compared to three million barrels the year before .
The oil company blamed bad weather and operational factors at its biggest oil field , Cantarell , for the production 2008 shortfall .
Exports were also down 16.8 percent last year .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon has sought more private investment in Pemex to boost falling production .
Opponents have said opening the struggling oil industry to private interests would threaten Mexico 's sovereignty .
Mexico is a major oil supplier to the United States .
The U.S. Treasury Department has taken action against three Saudi Arabian nationals suspected of raising money for terrorists .
The three men , identified as Abdul Rahim al-Talhi , Muhammad Abdallah Salih Sughayr and Fahd Muhammad Abd Al-Aziz Al-Khashiban are accused of providing support to the al-Qaida-linked Abu Sayyaf Group , responsible for a string of bombings and kidnappings in Southeast Asia .
Treasury department official , Stuart Levey , Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence says it is important to hold the men publicly responsible to deter other would-be donors .
Wednesday 's action freezes assets belonging to the men .
It also forbids U.S. citizens from doing business with them .
Afghan officials say a suicide bomber killed a police officer in eastern Khost province .
Authorities say Friday 's blast wounded 15 other people , including eight civilians outside police headquarters in Khost .
The Taleban claimed responsibility for the blast .
Hours later , a second bomber blew himself up at a checkpoint in Khost .
That explosion wounded the driver of a taxi the bomber in which the bomber was riding .
There has been no initial claim of responsibility for the attack .
Frequent suicide attacks blamed on Taleban militants have killed Afghan police and troops during the past year .
Tuesday has been a lucky day for the official U.S. national Thanksgiving turkey and its alternate .
President Bush gave the national turkey , whose name is Marshmallow , and its alternate , Yam , the traditional Thanksgiving pardon in a ceremony at the White House .
The two turkeys will be flown to Disneyland in California to be part of the holiday display , and will also serve as honorary grand marshals for Disneyland 's Thanksgiving Day parade on Thursday .
They will spend the rest of their lives at a Disneyland ranch .
For the past 15 years , the national Thanksgiving turkey and its alternate have been retired to a farm just outside Washington , DC in Virginia .
On the Thursday Thanksgiving Day holiday , millions of Americans traditionally enjoy a roasted turkey meal , which often includes yams with marshmallows .
Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah has issued new rules regarding political succession in the country .
The rules issued Monday outline who can become members of the Allegiance Commission , the body established last year to vote on future kings .
The order also details what should be done if a member dies and how a crown prince should be chosen .
Saudi Arabia was founded in 1932 by the Saud family .
The country 's current leader , King Abdullah , came to power in 2005 .
Saudi rule has traditionally been passed down to the sons of Abdul Aziz bin Saud , the founder of the Islamic kingdom .
What is now Ecuador formed part of the northern Inca Empire until the Spanish conquest in 1533 .
Quito became a seat of Spanish colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada in 1717 .
The territories of the Viceroyalty - New Granada ( Colombia ) , Venezuela , and Quito - gained their independence between 1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia .
When Quito withdrew in 1830 , the traditional name was changed in favor of the " Republic of the Equator . "
Between 1904 and 1942 , Ecuador lost territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors .
A border war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999 .
Although Ecuador marked 30 years of civilian governance in 2004 , the period was marred by political instability .
Protests in Quito contributed to the mid-term ouster of three of Ecuador 's last four democratically elected Presidents .
In September 2008 , voters approved a new constitution , Ecuador 's 20th since gaining independence .
General elections , under the new constitutional framework , were held in April 2009 , and voters re-elected President Rafael CORREA .
A Nigerian official says two children suspected of having the deadly bird flu virus are healthy and were probably never infected .
A Kuduna state health official , Abdulhamid Abubakar , said Tuesday that the two boys have recovered after being treated for a fever and a cough .
Officials are still awaiting test results to see if the boys were infected with the H5N1 bird flu strain , which can be deadly to humans .
Nigerian authorities are on high alert for any outbreaks after the virus was discovered on four bird farms in northern Nigeria last week .
However , an official with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization says restrictions on poultry trading are not being widely enforced .
That official , Juan Lubroth , also says the H5N1 virus may have entered Niger .
The French news agency quotes a Niger government spokesman as rejecting that assertion .
Kazakhstan , geographically the largest of the former Soviet republics , excluding Russia , possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves and plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals , such as uranium , copper , and zinc .
It also has a large agricultural sector featuring livestock and grain .
In 2002 Kazakhstan became the first country in the former Soviet Union to receive an investment-grade credit rating , and from 2000 through 2007 , Kazakhstan 's economy grew more than 9 % per year .
Extractive industries , particularly hydrocarbons and mining , have been the engines of this growth .
However , geographic limitations and decaying infrastructure present serious obstacles .
Landlocked , with restricted access to the high seas , Kazakhstan relies on its neighbors to export its products , especially oil and gas .
Although its Caspian Sea ports and rail lines carrying oil have been upgraded , civil aviation has been neglected .
Telecoms are improving , but require considerable investment , as does the information technology base .
Supply and distribution of electricity can be erratic .
At the end of 2007 , global financial markets froze up and the loss of capital inflows to Kazakhstani banks caused a credit crunch .
The subsequent and sharp fall of oil and commodity prices in 2008 aggravated the economic situation , and Kazakhstan plunged into recession .
While the global financial crisis took a significant toll on Kazakhstan 's economy , it has rebounded well .
In response to the crisis , Kazakhstan 's government devalued the tenge ( Kazakhstan 's currency ) to stabilize market pressures and injected $ 19 billion in economic stimulus .
Rising commodity prices have helped revive Kazakhstan 's economy , which registered 7 % growth in 2010 .
Barring a dramatic decline in oil prices , strong growth is expected to continue in 2011 .
Despite solid macroeconomic indicators , the government realizes that its economy suffers from an overreliance on oil and extractive industries , the so-called " Dutch disease . "
In response , Kazakhstan has embarked on an ambitious diversification program , aimed at developing targeted sectors like transport , pharmaceuticals , telecommunications , petrochemicals and food processing .
The island - discovered by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1494 - was settled by the Spanish early in the 16th century .
The native Taino Indians , who had inhabited Jamaica for centuries , were gradually exterminated and replaced by African slaves .
England seized the island in 1655 and established a plantation economy based on sugar , cocoa , and coffee .
The abolition of slavery in 1834 freed a quarter million slaves , many of whom became small farmers .
Jamaica gradually obtained increasing independence from Britain .
In 1958 it joined other British Caribbean colonies in forming the Federation of the West Indies .
Jamaica gained full independence when it withdrew from the Federation in 1962 .
Deteriorating economic conditions during the 1970s led to recurrent violence as rival gangs affiliated with the major political parties evolved into powerful organized crime networks involved in international drug smuggling and money laundering .
Violent crime , drug trafficking , and poverty pose significant challenges to the government today .
Nonetheless , many rural and resort areas remain relatively safe and contribute substantially to the economy .
Iran says it is donating $ 50 million to the Hamas-led Palestinian government , to ease a Palestinian cash crisis spurred by Western aid cuts .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki announced the donation Sunday during a conference in Tehran .
The promise of funding comes after the United States and the European Union said they were stopping aid to the Hamas government because it refuses to renounce violence and accept Israel .
Israel is withholding about $ 50 million in monthly payments of tax revenues it collects for the Palestinian Authority .
Venezuelan authorities have said they will redistribute more than 110,000 hectares of privately-held property to landless farmers .
The land seizure is part of an agrarian reform effort led by President Hugo Chavez .
Since his 1998 election , President Chavez has enacted controversial reform laws , including a 2001 land law aimed at narrowing the gap between Venezuela 's rich and poor .
The law allows the government to redistribute unused land to the poor .
Critics say the law violates property rights , and could lead to illegal land grabs .
One of four estates to be redistributed includes a 13,000 hectare cattle ranch owned by a British company .
The company has said it legally owns the property , and that the land is fully productive .
The French parliament has given final approval to a bill extending the state of emergency aimed at stopping riots by mostly North African youths .
The Senate approved the bill Wednesday despite objections from leftist lawmakers who say the continued emergency measures are not needed because the violence is easing .
But Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy said many cities are still tense .
The lower house of parliament passed the bill Monday .
It gives local authorities the power to impose curfews for three more months .
The violence began late last month when two teenagers of North African origin accidentally electrocuted themselves while hiding from police in a power station near Paris .
Thousands of cars and a number of buildings were burned in the riots that followed .
The government has promised to tackle what it says are the real causes of the violence , including unemployment and racism .
Asian stock markets opened dramatically higher Monday morning , rebounding from last week 's losses .
Japan 's Nikkei 225 Stock Average and South Korea 's Kospi Index each rose more than three percent early in the trading session , and Taiwan 's main stock index was up by four percent after 15 minutes of trading .
U.S. and European stocks rebounded Friday immediately after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut the interest rate it charges on short-term loans to large commercial banks .
Today was the first trading opportunity since then for Asian investors , whose stock holdings had suffered big losses through most of last week .
The U.S. central bank 's interest-rate cut was intended to buffer the impact on world financial markets of a housing-loan crisis in the United States .
Analysts say the Federal Reserve appears to have succeeded in easing investors ' fears that a credit crisis could hurt economic growth and profits .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has authorized former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj to engage in political activities during his provisional release .
Judges at the tribunal in The Hague , in a split decision Wednesday , allowed Mr. Haradinaj to join in such activities if U.N. administrators in Kosovo approve his participation on a case-by-case basis .
Mr. Haradinaj , a former Kosovo Albanian guerrilla leader , resigned his post and surrendered to The Hague tribunal in March after the court indicted him on 37 counts of war crimes during the Kosovo conflict of the late 1990s .
Mr. Haradinaj has insisted his actions were consistent with international law .
Serbian politicians have condemned Wednesday 's decision .
They demanded that Serb defendants on provisional release be granted similar privileges .
The Reuters news agency says the tribunal 's chief prosecutor plans to appeal the ruling .
Witnesses say an explosion has killed at least five soldiers in the Somali capital , Mogadishu .
Residents say they saw the bodies of three Ethiopian and two Somali government soldiers lying in the street after the attack Tuesday .
The witnesses say Ethiopian troops opened fire after the blast .
There has been no word on additional casualties .
Islamist insurgents launch almost-daily attacks on Somali government forces and allied Ethiopian troops .
More than a year of fighting has killed thousands of Somalis and displaced hundreds of thousands more , mostly from Mogadishu .
U.N.-sponsored peace talks in Djibouti last week ended with no progress toward an agreement .
Ethiopian troops entered Somalia in 2006 to help the government oust an Islamist movement that had seized power in Mogadishu and other cities .
Somalia has endured more than 17 years of chaos and conflict since the fall of the country 's last stable government in 1991 .
Saudi King Abdullah says dangerous conditions in Iraq , Lebanon and the Palestinian territories could trigger broad conflict in the region .
Speaking at a summit of Gulf leaders in Riyadh Saturday , the Saudi king said the Middle East is like a powder keg waiting for a spark to explode .
He expressed concern that Palestinians are fighting among themselves , and that Iraqis are killing each other .
King Abdullah added that unity in Lebanon is at risk , following a month-long war between Israel and Hezbollah militants .
Officials at the Riyadh meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council were expected to discuss Iran 's nuclear program .
The regional group brings together Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates .
Authorities in Spain and Morocco closed airports Tuesday , as ash from an Icelandic volcano once again disrupts air travel .
Spain 's air traffic control agency ( Aena ) said Tuesday that four airports in the Canary Islands and three airports in southern Spain have been shut down .
Morocco closed several of its airports including Casablanca .
The volcano continued belching ash on Tuesday .
Officials say they do not know how long the eruption will continue .
Volcanic activity has shut down sections of European airspace on-and-off for more than a month .
The cloud of abrasive ash can damage aircraft engines and cause other problems for airplanes in flight .
The European Union says airlines lost more than $ 3 billion when ash from the same volcano crippled air travel across Europe for nearly a week in April .
The U.S. Defense Department says U.S. and North Korean officials have reached agreement on a framework to recover the remains of American servicmen missing from the Korean War .
Two days of talks in Bangkok were led by U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Jerry Jennings .
The agreement reached Thursday will mark the 10th consecutive year that U.S. specialists have carried out remains recovery missions in North Korea .
The remains of more than 200 soldiers have been recovered since 1996 .
Of the 88,000 Americans missing from all conflicts , more than 8,100 are from the Korean War .
Recent civil wars in the West African nations of Liberia , Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast destabilized neighboring southeast Guinea with a flood of refugees and increased poverty .
Health workers say the movement of displaced people and an increase in sexual assaults have caused the region to have the highest HIV / AIDS rate in the country .
As people die from the virus , many leave behind children to face life as AIDS orphans .
Kari Barber has more from the town of N'Zerekore in Guinea .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has arrived in London for talks with Prime Minister Tony Blair on terrorism , trade and the situation in Afghanistan .
General Musharraf traveled from Washington where he met with President Bush .
During his visit he said the search for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden has gone completely cold .
In an interview published Sunday General Musharraf says Pakistani forces are aggressively pursuing Osama bin Laden , but have only been able to determine that he is still alive .
Mr. Musharraf says the United States must share responsibility for the failure to track him down because the U.S.-led coalition does not have enough troops in neighboring Afghanistan .
During his visit , Mr. Bush said " there is nobody more dedicated " to tracking down Osama bin Laden than Mr. Musharraf .
Lucayan Indians inhabited the islands when Christopher COLUMBUS first set foot in the New World on San Salvador in 1492 .
British settlement of the islands began in 1647 ; the islands became a colony in 1783 .
Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973 , The Bahamas has prospered through tourism and international banking and investment management .
Because of its geography , the country is a major transshipment point for illegal drugs , particularly shipments to the US and Europe , and its territory is used for smuggling illegal migrants into the US .
Haiti is marking six months since the powerful earthquake that killed more than 220,000 people and left Port-au-Prince and surrounding areas in ruins .
The 7.0 magnitude earthquake on January 12 left some 1.5 million others homeless .
Haitian Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive and former U.S. President Bill Clinton say millions of Haitians still lack access to basic services such as shelter , water , sanitation and health care .
In an opinion piece in The New York Times , they say progress has been made , but that all involved in Haiti 's recovery must do better .
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bellerive , who are the co-chairs of the Interim Haiti Reconstruction Commission , say that so far only 10 percent of the $ 5.3 billion pledged by governments to Haiti has been disbursed to the Haitian government .
The African Union has condemned a roadside bomb attack in Somalia that killed one AU peacekeeper and wounded two others in the capital , Mogadishu .
In a statement Thursday , Special A.U. Representative for Somalia Nicolas Bwakira condemned the attack and said it would not derail the A.U. 's peacekeeping mission in Somalia .
Bwakira says two bombs exploded late Wednesday on a road between the airport and the K-4 Section of Mogadishu .
He says the wounded peacekeepers were taken to Nairobi , Kenya for treatment .
The AU peacekeeping mission in Somalia currently consists of about 3,400 troops contributed by Uganda and Burundi .
The troops have come under frequent attack from the al-Shabab militant group .
Al-Shabab controls much of southern and central Somalia after a two-year insurgency , and has moved to impose its own strict form of Islamic law in areas under its control .
Last week , Somalia 's cabinet voted to make Sharia the basis of Somalia 's legal system , in an effort to appease the insurgents .
Members of the international community are meeting Wednesday in Afghanistan to reduce record-high opium production and illegal drug trafficking .
The anti-drug conference opened in Kabul with United Nations experts discussing the security threat that opium poses to Afghanistan and surrounding nations .
A U.N. report released earlier this year showed poppy cultivation reached new highs this year in Afghanistan , with nearly 95 percent of the world 's opium produced in the country .
The U.N. report also said the illegal opium trade drives instability by helping fund Taliban insurgents .
Topics on the agenda include ways to strengthen border security among Central Asian countries that are increasingly becoming a destination for heroin .
Last week , the European Union suggested some of Afghanistan 's poppy crop should be used to make legal opium-based pain medicine instead of heroin .
The United States and the Afghan government oppose the idea .
Pakistan 's military says it has successfully test-fired a short-range nuclear-capable missile .
Officials say the ( Abdali ) surface-to-surface ballistic missile , with a range of 200 kilometers , was launched Saturday from an undisclosed location inside Pakistan .
It is the country 's second missile test this month .
The launch comes one day after Pakistan 's rival , India , test-fired a nuclear-capable ballistic missile from a ship off its east coast in the Bay of Bengal .
Pakistan and India often conduct such tests to demonstrate their defensive readiness .
The two rivals normally give each other notice for long-range missile launches .
Police say a NATO strike has killed a Taliban commander involved in the suicide attack on a USAID contractor in northern Afghanistan earlier this month .
NATO says the Taliban commander , who was targeted Thursday in Kunduz province , openly claimed responsibility for the July 2 attack on the U.S. contractor 's compound in Kunduz city that killed five people .
In western Farah province , NATO says a joint Afghan-international force killed a Taliban commander and a " number of " insurgents during a raid on a militant training camp on Thursday .
The alliance says the commander , Mullah Akhtar , was responsible for brining foreign fighters from Iran into Afghanistan .
NATO and Afghan forces are increasingly targeting Taliban leadership during operations throughout Afghanistan .
NATO said Friday that at least 12 Taliban commanders have been killed or captured in the southern province of Helmand since May 1 .
Insurgents trying to derail Iraq 's January elections have attacked a voter registration center in Dujail , north of Baghdad , killing at least one civilian and wounding several others .
Another attack Saturday in Mosul killed one person and wounded at least six others when a bomb exploded near a U.S. military patrol , but instead hit a passing school bus .
Meanwhile , an Iraqi militant group claimed responsibility for the murders of two American contractors in an ambush December eighth near Baghdad .
Joseph Wemple and Dale Stoffel worked on construction and engineering projects in Iraq .
And Turkey 's foreign ministry has clarified that five Turkish security guards and two Iraqi drivers were killed in an ambush Friday near Mosul .
An earlier ministry statement did not specify how many were killed , but some news reports had said four guards were killed .
A senior Burmese prison official says more than 9,000 inmates promised freedom under the military government 's prisoner release program will be freed by the end of Friday .
A senior official at Rangoon 's notorious Insein prison Zaw Win , told reporters about the mass release , Friday .
Witnesses say they have only seen 1,000 prisoners released Friday .
Sources tell VOA 's Burmese service that of those released Friday , only three were political detainees .
Burma says the inmates were wrongly detained by the recently-disbanded security apparatus , the National Intelligence Bureau .
The agency was headed by ousted Burmese Prime Minister General Khin Nyunt .
Most of those already freed are ordinary prisoners .
President Bush has outlined the agenda for his second term in office and has asked for the support of all Americans in his weekly Saturday morning radio address .
Mr. Bush Saturday promised to reach out to friends and allies , including NATO and the European Union , to promote global development and progress , defeat terrorists and encourage democracy as an alternative to tyranny and terror .
He said in order to create jobs he will propose what he called " practical measures " to help small business , including the elimination of so-called " frivolous " lawsuits he said drive up the cost of health care .
The president also promised education and tax code reform and a revision of the U.S. Social Security system .
The President said there is no limit to the greatness of America when its citizens work together .
The Sudanese government is accusing Chad of sending troops into Darfur to supply rebels in the region .
Sudan 's Information Minister Kamal Obeid issued a statement Wednesday saying Chadian troops took supplies to the rebel Justice and Equality Movement near the North Darfur capital of El-Fasher .
He also accused Chad of providing protection to the rebels .
The Reuters news agency quotes a statement from Chad 's communications minister denying the accusations .
Chad and Sudan broke off diplomatic relations last year , with each accusing the other of supporting rebel assaults on their capitals .
The countries re-established relations in November , but tensions between the two nations remain high .
On Monday , Chad accused Sudan of supporting the formation of a new insurgent group opposed to the Chadian government .
THE Sun and the North Wind disputed which was the more powerful , and agreed that he should be declared victor who could the sooner strip a traveller of his clothes .
So they waited until a traveller came by .
But the traveller had been indiscreet enough to stay over night at a summer hotel , and had no clothes .
A strong earthquake in Indonesia 's Aceh province has sparked panic among thousands of residents who feared a tsunami would follow the quake .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage .
Seismologists said the 6.0 magnitude tremor was centered under the Indian Ocean about 100 kilometers southwest of the provincial capital , Banda Aceh .
News agency reports say panicked residents fleeing their homes caused mayhem in the city , despite police efforts to quell fears of another tsunami .
People fled to higher ground and to mosques , many of which had withstood the devastating December 26 earthquake and tsunami .
Aftershocks have been frequent in the region since the tsunami disaster , which killed more than 200,000 people , most of them in Indonesia .
Russia 's President says the country will stop following the World Trade Organization 's rules if Moscow is not admitted to the trade group .
Vladimir Putin made the comments Tuesday to a business group in Moscow .
Over the past decade , Russia has made agreements with numerous WTO members , but ca n't join unless it gets an agreement with one last nation - the United States .
Washington and Moscow have been haggling over protection for intellectual property , access to Russia 's banking sector , and other issues .
A news report on Bloomberg says Russia is the largest economy still outside the WTO .
Moscow is pressing to join before the G8 summit meeting that begins July 15 in Russia .
A published report says a top United Nations envoy will tell Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that his country will face political and economic isolation if Syria does not quickly and completely withdraw troops from Lebanon .
The Washington Post says U.N. envoy Terje Roed-Larsen plans to deliver the message to Syria at a meeting Saturday in Damascus .
The newspaper quotes U.N. officials as saying the international community is united in insisting that Damascus comply with U.N. resolution 1559 calling for an end to Syria 's 15-year military intervention in Lebanon .
Syrian troops there were continuing a redeployment that began earlier this week after Mr. Assad announced plans to move Syrian forces in a phased pullback to the country 's border with Lebanon .
The United Nations peacekeeping force in Lebanon says Israel has lifted it two-month-long sea blockade of the country .
The commander of the U.N. force said Israel Friday lifted the sea blockade as an international naval force began patrolling the Lebanese coastline .
Israel lifted its air blockade of Lebanon on Thursday .
Israel imposed the blockade at the start of its war against Hezbollah to prevent the guerrilla group from getting arms supplies from Iran through Syria .
A U.N.-mandated ceasefire ended the war last month .
In other developments , Israeli media say Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has indicated he would be prepared to discuss the status of the disputed Shebaa Farms region if Lebanon disarms Hezbollah and fulfills its obligations under U.N. resolutions ( 1701 and 1559 ) .
The reports say Mr. Olmert made the remark during talks with visiting Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov .
Dozens of people took to the streets in Bangladesh 's capital of Dhaka Tuesday , to protest military rule in Burma .
The group , mostly made up of Burmese nationals , demonstrated outside Burma 's embassy among tight police security .
Protesters called for an end to military rule and pledged their support for pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The group also demanded the international community do more to stop the violence and restore democracy to Burma .
Several thousand Burmese refugees , mostly Muslims known as Rohingyas , have fled to neighboring Bangladesh after alleged persecution by the Burmese government .
The Ukrainian government has canceled a planned meeting at its headquarters in Kiev after hundreds of protesters massed outside to prevent Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych from entering .
Government officials told reporters Wednesday the cabinet meeting would not take place , as planned .
No explanation was given .
Earlier , opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko , the apparent winner of Sunday 's presidential runoff election , urged supporters to stage a blockade to stop Mr. Yanukovych from convening the meeting .
Meanwhile , officials say Mr. Yanukovych has filed a formal complaint with the Central Election Commission challenging Sunday 's runoff , claiming widespread fraud .
Official results show Mr. Yushchenko won 52 percent of the vote .
An explosion in a secret ammunition dump owned by a warlord in northern Afghanistan has left at least 28 people dead and 70 others wounded .
A government spokesman says the whole neighborhood around the ammunition dump has been destroyed .
He said the cause of the blast in a village in Baghlan province , 120 kilometers north of Kabul , is being investigated .
The arms depot belonged to one of Afghanistan 's numerous militia commanders , who was officially disarmed but still kept ammunition hidden .
The spokesman said the cache contained mortar bombs , artillery rounds and other ordnance .
Afghanistan is awash with weapons after decades of conflict .
The government began a drive to disarm militias in 2003 but much ordnance remains uncollected .
There have been several blasts at arms depots in recent years but Monday 's was the most deadly .
A Russian contractor for the United Nations and an Indian businessman are the latest kidnap victims in Haiti 's recent rash of ransom abductions .
Officials said Thursday the men were snatched in separate incidents this week in Haiti 's capital and kidnappers later demanded ransoms for their release .
Haiti has experienced a surge in ransom kidnappings in recent weeks , sparking concern from local business leaders who worry about continuing lawlessness .
The Associated Press reports that the U.N. estimates some 130 people , mostly affluent businessmen , were kidnapped last month alone in Port-au-Prince .
An appeals court has voted to strip former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet of his immunity from prosecution in a human rights case involving the infamous Villa Grimaldi prison .
Friday 's ruling must be upheld by the Supreme Court before Pinochet can be tried .
The case against Pinochet would charge him with 23 cases of torturing political prisoners , and 36 disappearances of people who were imprisoned .
Chile 's president-elect Michelle Bachelet was among the political dissidents held at the Santiago prison in the mid-1970s , although she is not involved in the case .
Pinochet , who seized power in a 1973 military coup against a socialist government and ruled for 17 years , faces trial in several other human rights cases .
His immunity from prosecution is decided on a case-by-case basis .
A Pakistani man suspected of involvement in the beheading of U.S. journalist Daniel Pearl has died just weeks after he resurfaced from a four-year disappearance .
Saud Memon , who owned the property in Karachi where Pearl was murdered , disappeared four years ago only to reappear in April when he was dropped off at his home by unidentified men .
It is unclear if Pakistan 's intelligence agency or the United States was holding Memon .
He had been wanted for questioning in connection with Pearl 's murder but he was never formally charged .
His family says he disappeared in 2003 .
Memon 's brother confirmed his death Friday , adding that he was in extremely poor health when he was freed last month .
Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl was abducted and beheaded by Al-Qaida terrorists in Karachi in 2002 .
British-born militant Omar Sheikh and three other men have been convicted of murdering Pearl .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has officially welcomed his Venezuelan counterpart to Tehran .
Speaking at a reception at the presidential palace Saturday , Mr. Ahmadinejad said Hugo Chavez is very popular in Iran for his revolutionary views .
The leaders are expected to discuss bilateral issues and to sign energy deals during the two-day visit .
Mr. Chavez is on a two-week world tour , leading a delegation that includes Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez .
The delegation was scheduled to arrive in Tehran Friday , and no reason was given for the one-day delay .
Saturday 's visit marks the Venezuelan leader 's fifth trip to Iran as president .
Mr. Chavez was in Moscow Thursday , where he sealed a deal to buy Russian fighter jets and helicopters .
The head of Russia 's state arms export agency says the contracts are worth more than $ 3 billion .
The United States has banned arms sales to Venezuela .
The U.S. government is warning Americans in the Middle East and North Africa to be extra vigilant following the death of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
In a travel alert issued Thursday , the State Department said Mr. Arafat 's death has the potential to produce demonstrations and unrest throughout the region .
The department expressed concern that extremists may be planning attacks against Westerners and oil workers in the Persian Gulf area .
The U.S. Embassy in Egypt says Americans in that country should be especially vigilant on Friday , when Mr. Arafat 's funeral takes place in Cairo .
The embassy has advised Americans to avoid parts of Cairo where demonstrations could take place .
It said those sites include Cairo 's Tahrir Square and the areas around mosques and universities .
Internationally acclaimed jazz pianist Oscar Peterson has died .
He was 82 .
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation says the legendary musician died Sunday from kidney failure at his home near Toronto .
In a career spanning decades , Peterson performed at Carnegie Hall in New York and with musical greats such as Nat King Cole , Ella Fitzgerald and Dizzy Gillespie .
His honors include a Grammy for Lifetime Achievement in 1997 and an International Jazz Hall of Fame Award .
Canada had also named him a Companion of the Order of Canada , bestowing on him his country 's highest civilian award .
Pakistani authorities say three more men arrested in connection with a car bomb attack outside an American fast food restaurant in Karachi Tuesday have confessed to the crime .
A senior police official , Deputy Inspector General Mazoor Mughal , told reporters the suspects were arrested Thursday in an eastern part of the city .
He identified the suspects as members of a little-known separatist group from the troubled southwestern province of Baluchistan , the Baluchistan Liberation Army .
On Wednesday , President Pervez Musharraf announced the arrest of one man , also a Baluch , in connection with the bombing that killed three people and injured 22 others .
Baluch tribesmen have been waging a low-level insurgency for years , demanding more jobs and higher royalties from the Islamabad government for the region 's natural resources .
Thousands of people are pouring into Cyprus to escape Israeli airstrikes in Lebanon .
U.S. officials say they plan to evacuate more than 1,000 Americans Wednesday and bring several thousand more to Cyprus in the coming days .
The U.S. government has been criticized for being slow in evacuating the 25,000 Americans in Lebanon .
Several European vessels are on their way to Lebanon to evacuate more people .
Thousands of other foreign nationals have already been brought out of Lebanon to Cyprus or through Syria .
Many people from Arab countries have crossed by land into Syria on the way to their countries .
The United Nations says it is evacuating non-essential staff from Lebanon .
A U.S.-owned luxury cruise ship attacked by pirates off the coast of Somalia has docked in the Seychelles after experts removed parts of a grenade shell embedded in a passenger cabin .
The ship , its crew and 151 passengers - mostly from the United States , Australia and Europe - arrived in the Seychelles late on Sunday .
The Seaborne Spirit was sailing to Mombasa , Kenya , Saturday , when attackers on two speedboats pulled alongside and opened fire with assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenades .
The cruise ship changed course and escaped without any serious injuries among the passengers .
One crew member suffered minor injuries .
Pirates have launched around 25 attacks off Somalia since March -- in some cases , targeting ships carrying food aid .
A British maritime union has called for the waters to be declared a war zone .
A United Nations agency says that while Burma responded quickly to outbreaks of bird flu last month , it needs more help to continue its fight against the disease in the long term .
The Food and Agriculture Organization , FAO , says that the source of an outbreak that spread to four townships around Rangoon in late February is still unknown .
To help prevent further outbreaks , the FAO says that more intensive surveillance was needed around Rangoon .
It is also recommending that the military-ruled country strengthen its lab capabilities , animal health services and public awareness campaigns .
The FAO is providing Burma with $ 1.4 million in emergency assistance to help fight the disease .
The International Olympic Committee has expelled Bulgarian member Ivan Slavkov for ethical misconduct connected to London 's hosting the 2012 Summer Games .
The vote was 82-12 with five abstentions during a special hearing in Singapore .
Slavkov was expelled for bringing the IOC into disrepute .
The Bulgarian spoke in his own defense , but was not able to persuade the hearing .
Slavkov will lose his position as head of the Bulgarian National Olympic Committee .
The Bulgarian was suspended last year at the Athens Olympics after being videotaped in a television program indicating that IOC members were willing to accept bribes to secure their votes for London 's bid to host the 2012 Olympics .
London won the right to host the Games Wednesday by a vote of 54-50 .
Despite the controversy over singer Janet Jackson 's breast-baring halftime show at the last Super Bowl , advertisers are quickly buying time this year for the single most-watched event on U.S. television .
The FOX television network is airing the National Football League championship on February 6 from Jacksonville , Florida .
A 30-second commercial during the Super Bowl costs at least $ 2.4 million .
Automaker Lincoln Mercury will debut its first Super Bowl commercial in more than a decade as it rolls out 11 new products .
Other advertising newcomers include Internet companies CareerBuilder.com and GoDaddy.com .
Perennial advertisers returning are Anheuser-Busch , beverage maker Pepsi and automaker General Motors .
FOX is not worrying about a repeat of the Jackson controversy .
Singer Paul McCartney stars at the next Superbowl .
A Russian diplomat who once headed the United Nations budget oversight committee has been convicted of money laundering .
A New York jury Wednesday found Vladimir Kuznetsov guilty of helping to launder hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes by foreign companies seeking U.N. contracts .
Kuznetsov faces as much as 20 years in prison when he is sentenced in June .
Kuznetsov was accused of helping another U.N. employee hide more than $ 300,000 in bribes in connection with the now-defunct oil-for-food program for Iraq .
The employee , Alexander Yakovlev , pleaded guilty in 2005 and testified against Kuznetsov .
A senior U.S. defense official says elements of al-Qaida still remain in Pakistan and unless more is done to stop the flow of recruits into militant groups the war on terror will never be won .
Visiting U.S. Undersecretary for Defense Douglas Feith told a news conference in Pakistan that disrupting and destroying terrorist networks is not enough .
He said the war on terror can not be won without stopping the flow of people into the ranks of terrorist groups .
He also said terrorists must be denied what they need to survive and operate .
Pakistan is a key U.S. ally and has handed over more than 500 militants to the United States .
But hundreds of al-Qaida militants are still hiding in the Pakistan-Afghan border region .
The Ann Arbor News crime column reported that a man walked into a Burger King in Ypsilanti , Michigan , at 7:50 a.m. , flashed a gun , and demanded cash .
The clerk turned him down because he said he could n't open the cash register without a food order .
When the man ordered onion rings , the clerk said they were n't available for breakfast .
The man , frustrated , walked away .
Spain 's Prince of Asturias Foundation has announced that the scientific journals Science and Nature will receive its annual award for helping explain some of the world 's most important discoveries .
Organizers said Wednesday that the jury meeting in the Spanish city of Oviedo selected the U.S. and the British scientific publications to receive the Asturias communication prize .
The jury praised the journals as indispensable sources of universal reference material and a vanguard of scientific information .
Science magazine is an American weekly that first appeared in New York in 1880 .
The British journal Nature was first published in 1869 .
The $ 67,000 prize will be presented at a formal ceremony in October .
The Asturias Foundation , headed by Spanish Crown Prince Filipe , awards eight prizes every year in the fields including the arts , science , and sports .
Vice President Joe Biden has sworn in former Dallas Mayor Ron Kirk as the new U.S. trade representative .
Biden delivered the oath in a ceremony Friday at the White House complex .
The vice president said Kirk will be responsible for working to open markets throughout the world to create new opportunities and higher living standards for American families and businesses .
Kirk was sworn in two days after the U.S. Senate voted overwhelmingly to confirm his nomination .
He is the first African-American in the trade post .
He has vowed to pursue new trade deals but also to work to ensure that U.S. trading partners are not violating existing agreements .
Kirk 's confirmation followed earlier revelations about a personal tax issue .
He was among a number of President Barack Obama 's nominees to run into problems because of tax concerns .
Switzerland has reported its first case of bird flu .
A dead wild duck found in central Geneva tested positive Sunday for the H5 virus .
Tests are underway to determine if the duck had the H5N1 strain , which has killed 92 people since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Meanwhile , Hong Kong has joined Japan in banning poultry imports from France , where bird flu has struck a turkey farm near the eastern city of Lyon .
France is Europe 's biggest poultry producer .
French President Jacques Chirac says there is absolutely no danger in eating properly cooked chickens and eggs .
The agriculture ministry said Sunday 15 more wild swans infected with bird flu were found in the area near the turkey farm .
Elsewhere , Chinese media report that the agriculture minister is calling on authorities to go on high alert for what he says could be a massive bird flu outbreak in the coming months .
Sirens wailed across Israel Monday morning , as Israelis stood in silence in memory of the six million Jews who perished in the Holocaust .
Israeli officials , Holocaust survivors and foreign dignitaries are in Jerusalem for solemn ceremonies in observance of Holocaust Remembrance Day .
This year 's theme at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial is the " Voices of the Survivors . "
All across Israel , flags are flying at half-staff , places of entertainment are closed , and radio and television broadcasts are dedicated to remembering the Holocaust .
More than 200,000 Holocaust survivors currently live in Israel .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at the opening ceremonies Sunday evening that free societies should have learned from the Holocaust the danger of remaining quiet in the face of evil .
U.S. President Barack Obama recognized Holocaust Remembrance Day by saying the " hateful stereotypes and prejudice " against Jewish people must not be tolerated .
Venezuela 's president has vowed to reject the U.S. nominee for ambassador to the South American country .
Hugo Chavez said Saturday in a televised speech Larry Palmer will not be allowed to take up his post because the diplomat has been critical of Caracas .
Palmer upset the Chavez administration when he told a U.S. senator that morale was low in the Venezuelan military .
Palmer also expressed concern about Colombian rebels finding refuge in Venezuela .
President Chavez says he has told Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro to detain Palmer if he tries to enter Venezuela .
The U.S. Senate is expected to confirm Palmer 's appointment soon .
On Friday , Venezuelan lawmakers voted to allow Chavez to bypass parliament and rule by decree for 18 months .
That move was denounced by opposition rivals and the U.S. government .
British police have released video footage showing the London subway suicide bombers on a reconnaissance trip less than two weeks before the July 7 blasts that killed 56 people .
Scotland Yard says the closed circuit television recordings show three of the four bombers traveling through London on June 28 , making the same journey they did on the day of the bombings .
Officials believe they were checking out potential targets on the London transport system and checking how long the journey would take on the day of the attack .
The development comes one day after al-Qaida 's number two leader , Ayman al-Zawahri , said the terror network was behind the bombings .
In a video broadcast on Arabic language al-Jazeera television , he said the bombings were aimed against what he termed as British aggression against Muslims and its part in creating Israel .
A bomb blast in southern Beirut has killed three people , including at least two members of the Palestinian militant group Hamas .
A Hamas spokesman confirmed two of his group 's members were among those killed in the explosion late Saturday .
He said the cause of the blast was still unclear .
The blast happened near an office of a senior Hamas official in a southern Beirut neighborhood controlled by the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah .
Hezbollah fighters sealed off streets around the site of the bombing , preventing journalists from getting close .
Hamas and Hezbollah , listed by the U.S. as terrorist organizations , have fought separate wars against Israel in recent years .
The U.S. Embassy in India is warning of likely terror attacks in New Delhi and Mumbai , formerly known as Bombay , in the coming days .
The embassy sent an e-mail to Americans living in India Friday about the alleged plot .
It says the attacks were believed to be planned for around India 's August 15 Independence Day .
The embassy urged Americans to maintain a low profile .
Indian officials have not commented on the warning or alleged terror plot .
The embassy issued the warning one day after Britain announced it had arrested several suspects in an alleged plot to blow up passenger planes flying from Britain to the United States .
Officials in the Philippines say Muslim separatists in the southern part of the country have pledged not to attack U.S. troops when they hold an exercise on the island of Jolo next month .
In a personal message , Muslim rebel leader Nur Misuari - who has been in detention for four years - ordered his followers to stay in their camps and avoid what he called " untoward " incidents while the American troops are in the region .
Local military commander Brigadier-General Mohammad Ben Dolorfino delivered the letter Friday to Habier Malik , spiritual leader of Misuari 's followers .
Misuari issued the directive after meeting with government officials in his cell south of Manila earlier in the week .
The United States has been sending small units of military advisers to the Philippines to provide humanitarian assistance and counter-terrorism training to Filipino troops .
And it has nothing to do with their lovely lawns
Ten years ago at the University of California-Berkeley , just 40 students enrolled in an introductory class on the subject of energy .
This year , 270 students are taking the class .
There are energy CLUBS on campus .
The one at Massachusetts Institute of Technology has 1,700 members .
And at Arizona State University , 600 students have declared sustainability as their major .
Not long ago , even top college students would likely have had trouble definingsustainability .
Now , a lot of them are specializing in it .
Russia 's foreign minister says halting aid to the Hamas-led Palestinian government is a mistake .
Sergei Lavrov 's comments Tuesday in Moscow came just days after the United States and the European Union suspended direct aid to the Palestinian government .
Lavrov said the funding cut-off will only serve to further destabilize the region .
He said the only way to ensure that Hamas meets Western demands is to engage the Hamas leadership .
The U.S. and EU are demanding that Hamas renounce terrorism and recognize Israel 's right to exist .
The head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency said the United States is no longer using secret prisons overseas to detain and interrogate terror suspects .
CIA Director Leon Panetta said in a letter to employees Thursday that the spy agency plans to permanently shut down the facilities .
The administration of former President George W. Bush was criticized for using the secret prisons in the war on terrorism , with critics saying that detainees could be tortured outside the reach of U.S. judicial system .
The Bush administration had said the United States does not condone or conduct torture .
President Barack Obama has stipulated that all U.S. interrogations will be guided by the U.S. Army Field Manual - which forbids harsh techniques like waterboarding that were used during the Bush administration .
The United Nations Security Council has called on Lebanon 's parliament to hold presidential elections as scheduled next month in " an atmosphere free of violence , fear , and intimidation . "
The council said in a statement Thursday that there should be no " foreign interference " in the election .
Tuesday , Lebanon 's parliament speaker postponed a session to elect a new president until October 23 after lawmakers failed to reach a consensus on a presidential candidate .
The Hezbollah-led pro-Syrian opposition stayed away from parliament , preventing a two-thirds quorum required for a vote .
The opposition has vowed to prevent Lebanon 's anti-Syrian government from electing one of its members as president .
Outgoing pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud ends his term on November 24 .
A series of anti-Syrian figures have been killed in Lebanon in recent years .
Syria has denied involvement in the killings .
Taiwan 's Foreign Ministry says Somali pirates have freed a Taiwanese fishing boat held since last April .
The Win Far 161 and its crew were released Thursday .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes a maritime monitoring group - Ecoterra International - as saying a ransom was paid , but the amount was not immediately clear .
The group also says three of the 30 crew members did not survive the ordeal .
It says two Indonesians and one Chinese crew member died of malnutrition , disease and neglect during the last month .
The Taiwanese tuna trawler was seized April 6 of last year near the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean .
Somali pirates still hold at least seven ships and more than 160 crew members .
Somalia has not had a functioning central government since 1991 .
World number-two tennis player Rafael Nadal of Spain has pulled out of next month 's Chennai Open tournament in India because he still has not fully recovered from a foot injury .
Organizers say the 2005 French Open champion will be replaced in the draw by Croatia 's Ivan Ljubicic .
Ljubicic is ranked ninth in the world and got a wild card entry into the event , which begins January second in Chennai , also known as Madras .
The loss of Nadal is a big blow to the tournament , which is also raising funds for tsunami victims in southern India .
However , Nadal says he is donating $ 25,000 to the Tamil Nadu state government 's main relief fund .
Authorities in Brazil say four people from the same family have died in a mudslide in Sao Paulo state .
Officials say the four , including two girls , died when a mudslide triggered by heavy rains caused their house to collapse .
The incident occurred in the city of Jundiai .
The neighboring state of Minas Gerais has been hit hard by heavy flooding and mudslides .
More than 13,000 people there have been forced to leave their homes .
With increased awareness of the need to protect the environment , some individuals have come up with innovative ways to re-use normally discarded products .
In this report , VOA 's June Soh shows how a glass artist in a Maryland suburb is doing his part to make a positive difference in preserving the environment for future generations .
Carol Pearson narrates the story .
The U.S. military says Marines have cleared more than half the houses in the Iraqi city of Fallujah of weapons , after mounting an offensive to crush the city 's rebels .
Military officials say the Marines will search every house in Fallujah to deprive Iraq 's guerrillas of a main base and weapons point and pave the way for rebuilding the city ahead of elections scheduled in January .
A Marine spokesman says two Marines were killed during the clearing operations when insurgents threw grenades at them as they entered a house Thursday .
He says three insurgents were killed in return fire .
Western diplomats say Iran has agreed to let the International Atomic Energy Agency have greater overview of a uranium-enriching site in Iran .
The officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , made the announcement to news agencies Friday .
There was no immediate confirmation from Iran .
On Thursday , U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said he expected the United Nations will impose a new round of sanctions against Iran by the beginning of next month over its nuclear program .
The United States and its allies believe Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons , but Tehran has insisted its nuclear program is for peaceful , civilian purposes .
Chinese rescuers have found the bodies of 14 villagers who were killed last month in the collapse of a dam in northwestern Shaanxi province .
State media said Monday that three other people remain missing from the April 30 accident and chances of their survival are slim .
Authorities say the dam was unauthorized .
It was put up by a gold mining company to contain waste from a mine .
The families of all the dam 's victims have signed compensation agreements with the company , which will provide them with some $ 16,000 for each victim .
China 's mines are some of the most dangerous in the world .
The government has been calling for better adherence to safety standards .
China 's growing demand for fuel leads some mining companies to disregard those standards .
A lawyer for one of Saddam Hussein 's top aides in U.S. custody says a detained Iraqi female scientist is dying of cancer and should be freed immediately .
Badee Izzat Aref , representing former Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz says Mr. Aziz told him of Huda Ammash 's deteriorating condition .
He called on international humanitarian agencies to intervene for her release .
It is not clear how Mr. Aziz knew about Mrs. Ammash 's condition , or if she indeed has cancer .
Mrs. Ammash , who is also known as " Mrs. Anthrax , " has been in U.S. custody since May 2003 .
She was the only woman among 55 most-wanted members of Saddam 's regime .
Officials hope she may provide information about Saddam 's alleged weapons of mass destruction , a key reason the U.S. launched its invasion of Iraq in April 2003 .
U.S. President Barack Obama made his first official visit to the Federal Bureau of Investigation , calling on FBI employees to remain committed to the values of liberty , integrity and the rule of law no matter what challenges they face .
Speaking at FBI headquarters in Washington , President Obama said Tuesday that " living " such values means maintaining higher standards than enemies of the United States .
Using al-Qaida as an example , Mr. Obama noted many changes in recent years in the threats facing the U.S. But he said what makes the country " so special " is that Americans are willing to uphold their own values even when it is difficult to do so .
Mr. Obama praised the FBI for its ability to adapt to new dangers in an ever-changing world , while calling for a rejection of the notion that the U.S. must ever choose between its security and its ideals .
Residents of one New Orleans ' neighborhood began returning home Monday despite federal warnings that the hurricane-ravaged city still has health and safety problems .
The most urgent warning came today from President Bush , who said there is " deep concern " that Tropical Storm Rita will hit New Orleans and cause more flooding .
Mr. Bush said he shares the dream of Mayor Ray Nagin to get New Orleans up and running but said authorities must be what he called " realistic " about bringing people home .
Mr. Nagin has stood by his plan for evacuees to return one neighborhood at a time , starting with the relatively undamaged Algiers district Monday .
The head of the federal relief effort insists New Orleans is not ready to be re-populated .
Concerns raised by Coast Guard Vice Admiral Thad Allen include the city 's lack of clean drinking water and the weakened state of levees damaged by Hurricane Katrina .
A U.N. official says the World Food Program ( WFP ) plans to stop emergency food shipments to North Korea by January .
The head of the WFP office in Pyongyang , Richard Ragan , told the Associated Press that the agency plans to shift its focus to development programs .
He says North Korea requested the shift and the government says it has enough food to meet its peoples ' needs .
But Mr. Ragan says he still believes there are large numbers of North Koreans who are struggling to meet their basic food needs .
The World Food Program started emergency food aid to North Korea in 1995 , and has so far distributed $ 1.5 billion worth of food there .
The high court in Georgia 's breakaway region of Abkhazia has annulled a disputed presidential election -- hours after declaring the opposition candidate the winner .
But Supreme Court Justice Georgiy Akaba said the action can not be considered legal because it was made under intense pressure after backers of losing candidate Prime Minister Raul Khadjimba stormed the court building .
However , outgoing Abkhaz President Vladislav Ardzinba ordered new elections within two months .
Broadcasters complained that they were taken off the air .
Thursday , the court declared opposition candidate Sergei Bagapsh the winner of the October 3 vote .
Abkhazia , a pro-Russian enclave , has run its own affairs since driving out Georgian troops and civilians in the early 1990's .
The central Georgian government says the election was illegal and insists it will bring Abkhazia under its control .
A Kuwaiti court began hearing charges Tuesday against 37 suspected Islamic militants who are alleged to have ties to al-Qaida .
The defendants are charged with being affiliated with a banned group , known as the Lions of the Peninsula .
Prosecutors say they were plotting armed confrontations with state authorities and attacks on government targets .
They are also charged with killing Kuwaiti police officers .
Eleven of the defendants have been charged in absentia .
Most of those charged are Kuwaiti nationals , but several are from other countries , and one is a woman .
She is the widow of the group 's alleged ringleader , who died in police detention in February .
In January , four Kuwaiti police officers and eight suspected militants were killed in gunbattles .
The U.S. Defense Department has ordered 1,500 additional U.S. troops to Iraq to provide security ahead of elections in October and December .
A Defense Department statement said Wednesday that two battalions from the 82nd Airborne Division will deploy to Iraq for about 120 days to support security efforts during the election period .
The statement said they will join 180,000 Iraqi security forces and 138,000 coalition forces and that additional adjustments to troop levels for the elections are possible .
A referendum on the constitution is scheduled for mid-October and parliamentary elections are due in December .
Earlier , President Bush reiterated in a speech to military families in Idaho that U.S. forces will not stage an early withdrawal from Iraq .
He said an early withdrawal would embolden the terrorists and create a staging ground to launch more attacks against Americans .
Two new public opinion polls show President Bush 's approval ratings remaining at an all-time low .
In the surveys , conducted by Fox News television and Newsweek magazine , 36 percent of Americans said they approve of the president 's job performance .
Newsweek also asked respondents whether they think the president and Vice President Dick Cheney are honest and ethical .
Forty-two percent said that phrase applies to Mr. Bush , while 29 percent said it describes Mr. Cheney .
Mr. Cheney 's former top aide Lewis Libby was indicted last month on five criminal charges related to the leak of a covert CIA officer 's identity to the media .
The president has also faced continued criticism for his handling of Iraq and the failed Supreme Court nomination of White House counsel Harriet Miers .
Iraqi police in the northern town of Mosul say gunmen have killed a cameraman working for the Associated Press .
Police say Aswan Lutfalla was having his car repaired when a firefight broke out nearby .
He went to film the clash and was apparently deliberately shot by gunmen .
Lutfalla is the second AP Television News cameraman to be killed in Mosul in the last two years .
Last week , a U.S. press advocacy group , The Committee to Protect Journalists , said 89 journalists have been killed in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 .
Egypt 's election commission has declared President Hosni Mubarak the winner of the country 's first multi-candidate presidential election , with 88 percent of the vote .
There are 32 million registered voters in a country of 77 million people .
The commission reported only 23 percent of them cast ballots in Wednesday 's historic poll -- an even lower turnout than earlier estimated .
State television reported that Mr. Mubarak won over six million votes .
Mr. Mubarak was widely expected to win a fifth term , despite competition for the first time .
The 77-year-old leader faced nine challengers , including Ayman Nour of the liberal Tomorrow [ Ghad ] Party , who came in a very distant second , ahead of Noaman Gomaa of the Wafd Party .
Independent monitors and Western news agencies reported multiple problems with the vote , but the commission rejected opposition demands for a re-vote .
European space agency officials say the Huygens space probe has successfully entered the atmosphere of Saturn 's moon Titan in the final stage of a seven-year journey .
The probe , operated jointly by NASA , the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency , deployed a huge parachute Friday for a descent toward the surface .
Huygens is collecting data on the composition of Titan 's atmosphere and relaying the information to the probe 's parent craft , Cassini , for transmission to Earth .
Titan is the only moon in the solar system known to have a significant atmosphere .
Scientists believe conditions on Titan are similar to those here on Earth before life evolved , and could help them understand the origin of our atmosphere .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and European defense ministers and diplomats are set to begin their second day of talks Friday regarding NATO 's mission in Afghanistan .
Gates arrived in Edinburgh , Scotland , Thursday to promote a master document that would better explain exactly what NATO is doing in Afghanistan , and why countries should support its mission .
Earlier this week , Gates briefed members of the U.S. Congress on the situation in Afghanistan .
He said there are serious shortfalls in equipment and training to help the Afghan police and army fight militants .
Over the past two years , remnants of the Taliban government have been waging fierce battles against the Afghan government , NATO and U.S. soldiers - resorting to suicide attacks , roadside bombings and kidnappings .
Sporadic gunfire has been reported in Andijon and other border areas of Uzbekistan , where security forces fired on protesters last week , reportedly killing as many as 500 people .
President Islam Karimov has denied security forces opened fire on demonstrators , as witnesses claimed .
But the authoritarian government has sought to restrict access for reporters in the affected areas .
The Associated Press quotes a local doctor as saying that about 500 bodies had been laid out at a school for collection by relatives .
There was no independent confirmation .
President Karimov blamed the bloodshed on Islamic radicals trying to overthrow the government .
Several countries , including the United States , have called for restraint .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has called the Andijan crackdown a clear abuse of human rights .
Some of information for this report provided by AP and AFP .
Turkey 's president has called for a referendum on whether the next president should be elected by the people instead of by Parliament .
Ahmet Necdet Sezer called for the referendum after parliament voted for a second time to change the constitution to allow popular election of the president .
Mr. Sezer , who already vetoed the measure once , had to either approve it or call the referendum .
Turkey 's ruling Islamist-rooted AK Party proposed the reform package after parliament failed to elect its candidate for president , Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul .
Secularists opposed Mr. Gul 's candidacy for president , and they have accused the AK Party of attempting to undermine Turkey 's secular order .
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said he is committed to Turkey 's secular system .
Mr. Erdogan also called for early parliamentary elections over the political deadlock .
A court in Britain has convicted three men on terrorism charges - including one that was only 16 when he was arrested .
London 's Blackfriars Crown Court Monday found Hammaad Munshi , Sultan Muhammad , and Aabid Khan guilty of possessing documents useful to terrorists .
The men used the Internet to recruit followers , disseminate propaganda , and spread information about use of weapons and manufacture of bombs .
Prosecutors said Munshi , now 18 , is the youngest person ever convicted of a terrorism offense in Britain .
He is the grandson of a leading Islamic scholar .
Sentencing has been set for Tuesday .
Iran has denied as " baseless " U.S. charges that it is pursuing nuclear weapons , sponsoring terrorism and depriving its citizens of freedom .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi said Thursday that the accusations made in President Bush 's State of the Union address show Mr. Bush is , in his words , " closing his eyes to the realities of the Islamic Republic with its deep-rooted freedom and democracy . "
Referring to the 1979 Islamic Revolution , Mr. Asefi said his country " 26 years ago put an end to the dominant influence and presence of the United States in Iran . "
In his speech Wednesday night , Mr. Bush said the United States stands with the Iranian people as they seek liberty .
He also said Iran is the world 's primary state sponsor of terror , and is pursuing nuclear weapons .
The U.N. human rights chief in Haiti says the situation in the Caribbean nation is , " catastrophic . "
In a news conference in the capital Port-au-Prince Friday , Thierry Fagart said there were multiple instances of summary executions , mob violence , torture and arbitrary arrests .
He noted that police and civilians were responsible for committing grave violations in the poor Caribbean nation .
The comments come just days after a U.N. report said the security situation in Haiti was improving , but still fragile .
Earlier this week , Haiti 's Police Chief Mario Andresol said 15 police officers are facing prosecution for criminal activities .
A U.S. Border Patrol agent has been charged with murder in the fatal shooting of a Mexican illegal immigrant in January .
Prosecutors in the southwestern state of Arizona filed four charges Monday against agent Nicholas Corbett , including first-degree murder .
The charges say Corbett unlawfully killed Francisco Dominguez-Rivera January 12 as the immigrant crossed the Mexican border illegally into Arizona .
Corbett has said he fired at Dominguez-Rivera in self-defense after being threatened with a rock .
Prosecutors say evidence shows Dominguez-Rivera presented " no threat " to the agent .
The evidence includes testimony from three Mexicans who tried to cross the border with Dominguez-Rivera .
The Mexican government has condemned the killing .
Corbett remains a Border Patrol agent but is no longer working in the field .
The Israeli army has banned citizens from moving to Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip over fears their presence could complicate Israel 's planned withdrawal from the area .
In recent days supporters have vowed to swell the Gaza settler population to resist the army 's planned July evacuation .
The army said Friday no relocations to Gaza will be approved , but it was unclear how it would enforce the ban .
The army also said it will start removing some equipment from the Gaza Strip over the next two weeks in preparation for the evacuation .
Thursday , 13 Palestinian militant groups pledged to extend an informal truce through the end of this year , in exchange for some Israeli concessions .
Israel welcomed the move , but said Palestinians must also disarm the militants .
In 31 cities and towns across America , people are touching and even riding in what some might call the ' cars of the future . '
The U.S. Departments of Energy and Transportation , The California Fuel Cell Partnership , the National Hydrogen Association as well as nine auto manufacturers have put several hydrogen-fueled cars on tour .
VOA 's Paul Sisco caught up with the show recently in Washington , DC and files this report .
Two bomb blasts in southern Afghanistan have killed two civilians and two policemen .
Military officials say a suicide bomber detonated his car near a NATO convoy outside the city of Kandahar , killing two civilians and wounding one .
No NATO soldiers were injured .
In neighboring Helmand province , an explosion hit a police vehicle on patrol in Grieshk district , killing two policemen .
Meanwhile , in the capital Kabul , another explosion went off just moments after a NATO patrol drove by .
There were no injuries or damage reported .
On Monday , a suicide bomber killed 17 people and wounded nearly 50 others in a crowded market in Helmand province 's capital , Lashkar Gah .
Officials said 15 children were among the wounded .
Violence has increased in recent weeks since NATO forces moved to southern Afghanistan to destroy Taleban hideouts .
Another Somali government official has been gunned down in a neighborhood in the capital , Mogadishu .
Police say Deputy District Commissioner Osman Ali was killed late Monday by two unknown men armed with pistols .
Ali was the commissioner of the Huriwa district , north of the capital .
Several government officials have been assassinated in the capital in recent weeks .
A government worker was gunned down Saturday morning .
A former intelligence officer and a court official were killed by unknown gunmen in May .
The government has been unable to stop the violence in Mogadishu since declaring victory last month over Islamists insurgents .
The violence between insurgents and an alliance of government and Ethiopian troops has left more than 1,300 people dead since February .
Somalia has not had an effective central government in 16 years , since warlords toppled dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
India 's prime minister has called the Iraqi elections " a historic day for the people of Iraq , " saying New Delhi will do everything possible to assist Baghdad in its efforts to rebuild the country .
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also expressed hope for warm relations with the future democratic government of Iraq .
Meanwhile , Pakistan said it hopes the Iraqi elections will lead to stability and the country will regain full control over its rich oil reserves .
Foreign office spokesman Masood Khan said Pakistan also hopes the election process culminates in a stable , unified , sovereign and independent Iraq .
In Kabul , Afghan President Hamid Karzai said he was encouraged by reports of higher than expected voter turnout .
Russia 's foreign minister says Iraq could split into different states if its ethnic groups fail to unite .
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned Tuesday in St. Petersburg that Iraq could break up if the government in Baghdad does not take urgent steps toward achieving real national unity .
Russia opposed the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and has called for efforts to contain the violence there .
Officials in Yemen say a suicide bomber has killed a policeman and wounded 20 others in the eastern part of the country .
Officials say the bomber rammed his car into a police station in Yemen 's Hadramut province Friday .
The blast also caused damage to several nearby buildings .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
In January , gunmen in Hadramut province opened fire on tourists , killing two Belgians and wounding four others .
Yemen in the ancestral home of Osama bin Laden .
Several recent attacks have been blamed on al-Qaida terrorists .
The government has also been battling Shi'ite insurgents in the northwest of the country since 2004 .
The conflict has killed thousands of people .
The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world 's five oceans ( followed by the Atlantic Ocean , Indian Ocean , Southern Ocean , and Arctic Ocean ) .
Strategically important access waterways include the La Perouse , Tsugaru , Tsushima , Taiwan , Singapore , and Torres Straits .
The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean , the Southern Ocean , removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60 degrees south .
North Korea 's nuclear weapons program dominated the two-day meeting of Asia and European foreign ministers in Kyoto , Japan .
In a closing statement , the ministers strongly urged North Korea to make a strategic decision to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula and to return to negotiations without delay .
North Korea has boycotted talks with China , South Korea , Russia , Japan and the United States since June .
Friday , Japan hardened its stance , saying it will consider referring North Korea to the U.N. Security Council for action unless talks resume .
" They have the Security Council in their minds , as well as five-party talks , six minus North Korea , " Foreign Ministry spokesman Hatsuhisa Takashima said .
North Korea is insisting on massive aid and specific security guarantees , before it will consider honoring its agreements to be nuclear free .
North Korea says joint military exercises between South Korea and the United States are a prelude to a U.S. attack on North Korea .
In a statement Saturday , an unnamed North Korean military spokesman said the drills , which begin later this month , are designed to compel North Korea to end its nuclear program .
North Korea 's nuclear capability was the key issue at six-party disarmament talks held in Beijing in recent weeks .
Disagreement led negotiators to call for a three-week recess of the talks .
At the beginning of discussions in July , chief U.S. negotiator Christopher Hill repeated the assurance that Washington has absolutely no intention of attacking North Korea .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has returned to work , a week after suffering a mild stroke .
Mr. Sharon held his weekly meeting with his Cabinet Sunday .
The severely overweight and self-admitted food lover joked with Cabinet members about his health scare , warning them about the dangers of eating fried foods during the Jewish Hanukkah holiday , which begins Sunday .
Mr. Sharon spent most of last week resting after being hospitalized for a mild stroke .
Doctors say the illness has not caused any permanent damage .
Public opinion surveys show the Israeli prime minister is expected to win a third term as leader of a new centrist party in a March 28 general election .
A South African-led delegation is set to arrive in Ivory Coast Sunday to advise its government on legal changes needed to satisfy a 2003 peace deal .
South Africa 's Defense Minister Mosiuoa Lekota is leading the team , which includes lawyers and judges from South Africa , Burundi and Rwanda .
South African spokesman Bheki Khumalo says the team will present its findings on whether new laws passed in Ivory Coast comply with the Linas-Marcoussis peace accord .
The French-brokered deal calls for reforming citizenship requirements on candidates for Ivorian president .
Ivorian rebels have criticized President Laurent Gbagbo for failing to change the citizenship rule ahead of elections in October .
Since the end of civil war in 2003 , Ivory Coast has been divided between the rebel-held north and the government-controlled south .
The Ukrainian parliament has overwhelmingly voted for a presidential election October 25th , in a move that President Viktor Yushchenko says he will challenge as unconstitutional .
A parliamentary resolution setting a date earlier than expected won the backing of 401 deputies in the 450-member parliament .
The legislative body and its leader , Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko , have grown increasingly hostile to the Yushchenko presidency over the past two years .
Analysts say the vote Wednesday was a maneuver to prevent the president from dissolving the chamber , which is illegal in the last six months of his mandate .
A short while after the vote , the deputy head of Mr. Yushchenko 's administration , Maryna Stavniychuk , said the president would appeal to the country 's Constitutional Court .
No one has yet announced plans to contest the election .
I walked into a bar the other day and ordered a double .
The bartender brought out a guy who looked just like me .
Italy 's highest sports authority - CONI - has suspended all competition Saturday and Sunday as a sign of respect for Pope John Paul II .
CONI President Gianni Petrucci said the decision affects Serie-A football ( soccer ) matches , a playoff to decide the Italian ice hockey title , basketball and volleyball league matches , and amateur sports .
On Friday , the heads of Serie-A powerhouses AC Milan and Juventus had called for the suspension of play as Pope John Paul 's condition worsened .
Several crucial Italian league matches were scheduled for Saturday and Sunday .
Some Formula One drivers preparing to start in Sunday 's Bahrain Grand Prix expressed their sympathy for the pope , but ruled out postponing the race .
Giancarlo Fisichella said that he did not think Formula One should be stopped despite the drivers ' sympathies with the pontiff .
Ivory Coast 's ruling party is calling for 4,000 French peacekeepers in the country to leave .
The head of the Ivorian Popular Front , Pascal Affi N'Guessan , said that peace in Ivory Coast can only be achieved when French forces withdraw .
He also called late Friday , for the dissolution of a group of foreign mediators overseeing the country 's struggling peace process .
French troops helped to end a civil war which erupted in 2002 after rebels tried to out President Laurent Gbagbo .
Supporters of the president have accused the former colonial power of showing bias towards the rebels .
Earlier this month , President Gbagbo said that U.N. and French peacekeepers are free to leave Ivory Coast because the peace process has failed .
In addition to the French troops , about 7,000 U.N. troops are also stationed in Ivory Coast to help patrol a buffer zone between the rebel-held north and the government-controlled south .
Iraqi authorities say gunmen have kidnapped a top Iraqi army officer - the latest insurgent abduction of a senior Iraqi official .
Police said Brigadier General Jalal Mohammed Saleh was pulled out of his car in western Baghdad Tuesday and taken away .
He was the commander of a special armored division .
Insurgents have kidnapped several senior Iraqi civilian and military officials .
Some of them have been killed .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says one American Marine was killed by an explosion in Al Anbar province Monday .
In another development , the military says a riot erupted at Camp Bucca prison in southern Iraq last week , when some unruly prisoners were being transferred to a different compound .
It says the situation was quickly brought under control and four prison guards and 12 inmates suffered minor injuries .
Lebanon 's Parliament has voted to support the country 's first government since the end of Syrian dominance .
Lawmakers approved a confidence measure Saturday in a 92 to 14 vote .
Two members abstained , and more than a dozen were absent during the vote .
Prime Minister Fouad Siniora unveiled the new government earlier this month , after three earlier attempts failed to win approval .
Sunday , he is due to travel to Damascus in an effort to strengthen ties strained since massive protests forced Syria to withdraw troops from the country .
Mr. Siniora has said good relations with Syria are crucial to Lebanon 's future .
A key concern , however , is Syria 's decision to block Lebanese trucks carrying goods across the border , due to security concerns .
Lebanon says the move hurts local exporters .
One fine day it occurred to the Members of the Body that they were doing all the work and the Belly was having all the food .
So they held a meeting , and after a long discussion , decided to strike work till the Belly consented to take its proper share of the work .
So for a day or two , the Hands refused to take the food , the Mouth refused to receive it , and the Teeth had no work to do .
But after a day or two the Members began to find that they themselves were not in a very active condition : the Hands could hardly move , and the Mouth was all parched and dry , while the Legs were unable to support the rest .
So thus they found that even the Belly in its dull quiet way was doing necessary work for the Body , and that all must work together or the Body will go to pieces .
A U.S. military statement from Iraq says operations at Baghdad 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison will end within months , and that prisoners there will be transferred to a new facility now under construction .
Military spokesman , Lieutenant-Colonel Barry Johnson said no precise dates have yet been set for the transfer .
But he said said the plan is to complete the changeover within two or three months .
In Washington , the Pentagon confirmed the timetable for completion of the new facility , Camp Cropper .
But a spokesman said it has not been determined whether opening the new facility will lead to the closing of Abu Ghraib .
Pentagon spokesman , Bryan Whitman also said talk of a timetable for closing Abu Ghraib is premature .
He said it is not clear whether U.S. forces , which operate the facility , will stop using it as others become available .
The Indian Ocean provides major sea routes connecting the Middle East , Africa , and East Asia with Europe and the Americas .
It carries a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum and petroleum products from the oilfields of the Persian Gulf and Indonesia .
Its fish are of great and growing importance to the bordering countries for domestic consumption and export .
Fishing fleets from Russia , Japan , South Korea , and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean , mainly for shrimp and tuna .
Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia , Iran , India , and western Australia .
An estimated 40 % of the world 's offshore oil production comes from the Indian Ocean .
Beach sands rich in heavy minerals and offshore placer deposits are actively exploited by bordering countries , particularly India , South Africa , Indonesia , Sri Lanka , and Thailand .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces have killed 14 suspected terrorists and rescued a kidnapped Iraqi policeman in two separate operations .
A statement said 10 terrorists believed linked to al-Qaida were killed Wednesday , when coalition troops raided their hideout near the town of Muqdadiyah north of Baghdad .
It said the Iraqi policeman was found blindfolded and shackled to the floor inside the building .
The military said four terrorists were killed and 48 others detained in a separate operation in the restive town of Ramadi late Tuesday .
In a separate statement , the military said a U.S. Marine died today from wounds sustained while operating in Al Anbar province , west of Baghdad .
Tuesday , an explosion in a coffee shop in a Shi'ite district of Baghdad killed at least 14 people and wounded 16 others .
There were conflicting reports on whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or mortar rounds .
The Futuna island group was discovered by the Dutch in 1616 and Wallis by the British in 1767 , but it was the French who declared a protectorate over the islands in 1842 , and took official control of them between 1886 and 1888 .
Notably , Wallis and Futuna was the only French colony to side with the Vichy regime during World War II , a phase that ended in May of 1942 with the arrival of 2,000 American troops .
In 1959 , the inhabitants of the islands voted to become a French overseas territory and officially assumed this status in July 1961 .
Brad Delp , who committed suicide March 9 , left a note proclaiming himself " A lonely soul . "
Police say the 55-year-old lead singer for the rock band Boston paper-clipped the note to his shirt .
He was found dead in his Atkinson , New Hampshire home , after committing suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning .
In another note , Delp took sole responsibility for the act , and warned that the house contained carbon monoxide gas .
Police also found four sealed notes to Delp 's fiancee Pamela Sullivan , his children , their mother , Micki Delp , and another couple whose identity was not disclosed .
Police say they will give the letters to family members without reading them .
Brad Delp was cremated March 14 , following a private funeral .
An Iranian official says his country will not stop developing its nuclear program even if the United Nations imposes a third set of sanctions .
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini Sunday told reporters that Iran will ignore continued U.S. and U.N. pressure to stop enriching uranium as part of its nuclear program .
Just three days ago Thursday , Iran 's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani met with the European Union 's foreign policy chief Javier Solana .
Those talks produced no breakthrough in the nuclear standoff , and the two men will meet again in two weeks .
Since December , the U.N. Security Council has approved two sets of sanctions against Iran to pressure the nation to halt uranium enrichment .
The United States and its allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its program is for peaceful , civilian uses .
Britain 's Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott has condemned the manner in which Iraq 's former leader Saddam Hussein was put to death .
Mr. Prescott said Tuesday the taunting and baiting that accompanied Saddam 's execution was " deplorable . "
He said those responsible should be punished .
The British official said regardless of what views one holds of capital punishment , no one can endorse the manner in which the former Iraqi dictator was executed .
Mr. Prescott was referring to leaked video footage showing witnesses chanting and telling the former Iraqi leader to go to hell as he was about to be hanged .
Brtitish Prime Minister Tony Blair , on vacation in Florida , has not spoken publicly about Saddam Hussein 's execution .
President Bush has extended his greetings to all who are celebrating the 105th anniversary of Cuba 's independence .
In a statement released Sunday by the White House , Mr. Bush said the United States remains committed to extending the full blessings of liberty around the world .
He said the U.S. stands with all freedom-loving people in the conviction that Cuba 's future must be one of dignity , liberty and opportunity .
The president said the anniversary of Cuba 's independance is also a day to recognize the contributions of generations of Cuban Americans .
On May 20 , 1902 , the Cuban republic was inaugurated .
On that date , the United States ended its occupation of the island following the Spanish-American war .
NATO has warned Uzbekistan that its ties with the security alliance depend on its commitment to upholding basic human rights .
A NATO statement , issued Tuesday in Brussels , condemned the recent reported use of excessive force against protesters and supported the United Nations ' call for an independent inquiry .
Witnesses , human rights groups and Uzbek political opposition activists say the crackdown in the eastern part of the country killed up to 1,000 people .
But Tashkent puts the death toll at 169 , including 32 soldiers .
Also Tuesday , Human Rights Watch called for the release of a prominent Uzbek human rights activist , Saidjahon Zainabitdinov , who was jailed following the clash .
Meanwhile , China today declared its support for the Uzbek government of President Islam Karimov , saying whatever happened in the country is an internal affair .
President Karimov is to visit Beijing Wednesday .
Prior to the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century , the Inca ruled northern Chile while the indigenous Mapuche inhabited central and southern Chile .
Although Chile declared its independence in 1810 , decisive victory over the Spanish was not achieved until 1818 .
In the War of the Pacific ( 1879 - 83 ) , Chile defeated Peru and Bolivia and won its present northern regions .
It was not until the 1880s that the Mapuche Indians were completely subjugated .
After a series of elected governments , the three-year-old Marxist government of Salvador ALLENDE was overthrown in 1973 by a military coup led by Augusto PINOCHET , who ruled until a freely elected president was installed in 1990 .
Sound economic policies , maintained consistently since the 1980s , have contributed to steady growth , reduced poverty rates by over half , and have helped secure the country 's commitment to democratic and representative government .
Chile has increasingly assumed regional and international leadership roles befitting its status as a stable , democratic nation .
The Iraqi Election Commission says preliminary results show about 70 percent turnout in the country 's December 15 parliamentary elections .
The commission announced the figure Wednesday as vote counting continued .
Final results are expected in January .
Preliminary partial results show a strong lead for a Shi'ite coalition , prompting calls of fraud from Iraq 's main Sunni Arab coalition , the Iraqi Consensus Front .
The Sunni coalition warned it may call for a re-vote .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says at least nine insurgents were killed and 16 captured during two incidents Monday and Tuesday .
Thousands of people in London 's Trafalgar Square protested Israel 's actions , while counter-protesters stationed themselves nearby to call out support for Israel .
Thousands also marched in Brussels , Belgium , and in Madrid , Spain .
The rallies were a continuation of the protests that took place a day earlier in cities worldwide .
Saturday , several thousand demonstrators in Washington gathered in a park across the street from the White House to protest Israel 's offensive against Gaza .
The protesters carried Palestinian flags and shouted slogans in support of the Palestinians in Gaza .
In France , tens of thousands of people took to the streets of the capital , Paris .
Protests were also held in smaller cities around the country .
A German-born Turkish citizen held for more than four years at the U.S. terrorism detention center at the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba has been released and returned to Germany .
Attorney Bernhard Docke said his client , Murat Kurnaz , was flown to a U.S. Air Force base in Germany and released Thursday .
Kurnaz was released after long negotiations between U.S. and German officials .
Docke said his client will undergo a medical examination and will refuse interviews as he adjusts to his newfound freedom .
Kurnaz was arrested in Pakistan in 2001 and transferred to Guantanamo Bay , where he remained for more than four years .
Docke said his client suffered abuse in the U.S. military prison , including sexual humiliation .
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki says his critics in U.S. Congress do not appreciate his government 's achievements .
Mr. Maliki told reporters Sunday in Baghdad that some criticism from Washington is encouraging people trying to destabilize Iraq .
U.S. Democratic Party presidential candidate Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and some other U.S. lawmakers have called for Iraq 's parliament to replace Mr. Maliki .
The Iraqi leader says U.S. critics may not know " the size of the destruction that Iraq passed through , " and do not appreciate " the big role of the Iraqi government and its achievements , such as stopping the civil and sectarian war . "
The remarks came as U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker and the top American military commander , General David Petraeus , prepare to deliver reports to Congress next week on the progress achieved since President Bush ordered nearly 30 thousand more troops to Iraq .
The Paris club of creditors is reported near agreement on a deal to waive billions of dollars in Iraqi debt owed member nations .
The United States , Germany , France and 16 other industrialized nations agreed early Sunday to write off up to $ 33 billion .
Officials say only Russia has not signed off on the deal .
Russian negotiators in Paris are reported awaiting Moscow 's final approval of the agreement .
In other developments , the Iraqi government says its first democratic national elections in decades will take place January 30 .
An Iraqi elections spokesman , Farid Ayar , says ballots for a new national assembly , provincial councils and a Kurdish regional parliament will be cast nationwide , including areas now gripped by insurgency .
He did not say why the polls were moved from the earlier date of January 27 .
There were no U.S. reports of major combat operations today .
India has confirmed that Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf is to visit the country next month to watch a cricket match between the two countries .
An Indian government spokesman says Mr. Musharraf will attend the one-day match in New Delhi on April 17 .
India invited President Musharraf to attend the match during the current tour by Pakistan .
The visit would be the Pakistani leader 's first since a failed summit between the nuclear rivals in 2001 .
Observers say it could accelerate the peace process begun by the two countries more than a year ago .
The South Asian neighbors have fought three wars since they gained independence from Britain in 1947 .
Nepalese political parties have reached an agreement on forming a new government , after weeks of deadlock .
Leaders of the seven parties in the interim government agreed Wednesday that the new constituent assembly will vote on the country 's leadership , including Nepal 's first president .
Nepal has been in political limbo since May , when lawmakers voted to abolish the centuries-old monarchy and establish the country as a republic .
King Gyanendra has since left the royal palace .
Nepal 's Maoists , meanwhile , have pressured Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala to step down .
Former communist rebels won the most seats in April 's election of a new constituent assembly , but must form a coalition government with other parties .
Separately , the United Nations World Food Program Wednesday said roughly 2.5 million Nepalis are in need of immediate food aid , and many more are at risk of becoming food insecure due to rising prices .
A top U.S. diplomat is rejecting claims that Washington has fomented deadly violence in Somalia 's capital , Mogadishu .
In a letter published in Kenya 's Daily Nation newspaper Tuesday , Ambassador William Bellamy acknowleged the United States has encouraged Somalians to reject militants who support al-Qaida .
But Bellamy , the U.S. ambassador to Kenya , said some news reports have " wrongly blamed " the United States for fueling the recent violence in Mogadishu that killed at least 150 people .
Officials from Somalia 's interim government have accused the U.S. of funding warlords fighting Islamic militias for control of Mogadishu .
Bellamy 's letter did not address the alleged U.S. support for the warlords .
The ambassador said Washington has offered moral and diplomatic support to the interim government , and food aid to Somalians suffering from the current drought .
The official U.S. death toll from last week 's Asian tsunami has risen to 36 .
The revised figure includes 16 Americans confirmed dead and 20 others that a State Department spokesman says are now presumed dead .
The spokesman says officials have specific reason to believe those 20 Americans were in harm 's way when the tsunami struck .
He says 19 were in Thailand and the 20th in Sri Lanka .
The spokesman says U.S. officials are still looking into 3,500 inquiries about the welfare of Americans still unaccounted for .
He says the State Department has received 24,000 inquiries overall , most of which were resolved when people were found or officials realized there were multiple calls about the same person .
U.S. officials continue to work with travel , embassy , and Asian immigration officials to locate the missing Americans .
Reports from Burma say a cyclone has devastated Rangoon , the country 's largest city .
Cyclone Nargis , with winds of up to 190 kilometers per hour and heavy rains , florced the closure of Rangoon 's International Airport Saturday and knocked out state-run radio , television , telephone and Internet service .
Reports from residents of Rangoon say many public and government buildings have been damaged .
They add that rooftops litter the city 's streets and downed trees and telephone poles are blocking roads .
There is no word whether the storm damage will affect next week 's scheduled constitutional referendum .
Burma 's military rulers have said the vote on May 10 will pave the way for democratic elections in 2010 .
After lashing Burma , cyclone Nargis moved toward Thailand , where at least 14 provinces are on alert for possible flooding and mudslides .
Japan 's Chief Cabinet Secretary , Shinzo Abe , says police have obtained an arrest warrant for a former North Korean agent suspected of kidnapping two Japanese citizens in 1978 .
Reports from Tokyo Thursday also said that a warrant has been issued for a second North Korean suspected of kidnapping two other Japanese .
The warrants were issued for Sin Guang Su and Choe Sung Chol .
Both suspects are believed to be in North Korea .
The North Korean government has admitted kidnapping 13 Japanese nationals to help train spies and says it has accounted for all the abductees .
Pyongyang has released five individuals and says the other eight are dead .
The Japanese government believes others were abducted and wants full information on them as well as those who are said to have died .
Tokyo says the issue must be resolved before it considers normalizing relations with North Korea .
Hundreds of Chinese farmers have staged protests near a planned Olympic stadium in Beijing in recent days , saying the government took their private land without paying compensation .
This week , protest signs reading " support the Olympics , resettle the farmers who have lost their land ! " hung near a planned stadium and watersports complex for the 2008 Beijing Games .
A protest spokesman told VOA that demonstrations will continue in the village northwest of Beijing until farmers get a satisfactory answer from officials regarding what he called " an unfair appropriation of land . "
Similar protests have been reported elsewhere in the capital city , with residents complaining of being forcibly evicted from their homes .
Beijing Olympic organizers have announced plans to spend $ 2 billion on some 14 sports venues for the Games .
Iraqi authorities say a suicide truck bomber killed at least 14 people and wounded at least 50 others at a police station north of Baghdad .
Most of the victims from the blast Sunday near the northern city of Tikrit were policemen .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says some American soldiers were wounded when a car bomb exploded on a bridge south of Baghdad .
There were reports of U.S. troops being trapped in rubble under the bridge .
That blast took place close to where 12 Iraqi soldiers were killed Saturday when a suicide bomber drove a truck into a Iraqi army checkpoint near the city of Iskandariya .
The U.S. military also announced Sunday the death of a U.S. soldier in fighting in a southern section of Baghdad .
U.S. fighter planes have bombed a suspected Taleban compound in an area in eastern Afghanistan , as the search for an elite American military team continues .
A U.S. military spokesman said fighter planes struck an enemy compound in Kunar province with precision guided bombs late , Friday .
He said the U.S. military is still assessing the damage , and that it is unclear if there were any casualties .
The airstrike comes as hundreds of U.S. and Afghan troops continue to search the mountains of Kunar province for an American commando team that disappeared during a battle with insurgents .
A Special Forces helicopter was shot down attempting to evacuate the team Tuesday , killing all 16 servicemembers on board .
The bodies of the troops killed in the crash were flown to the United States late Friday .
Landslides in northwestern China have buried a mountain village , leaving at least 20 people missing Monday .
The official Xinhua news agency said landslides and mud-rock flows struck several villages in Langao County Sunday evening after days of continuous rain .
The report said nine homes were flattened and 20 people are missing in Muzhu village in the city of Ankang in Shaanxi province .
Chinese media also said rising river waters are putting to the test the massive Three Gorges Dam , which is expected this week to see its highest water level since it was completed in 2006 .
China 's civil affairs ministry says heavy rainfall has caused water levels in lakes and rivers to exceed danger levels .
A Polish woman kidnapped in Iraq has been freed , and she says her captors treated her well during her three-week ordeal .
Teresa Borcz Khalifa spoke to reporters Saturday in the Polish capital , Warsaw , alongside Prime Minister Marek Belka .
Mr. Belka did not give details of her release , except to say that officials from different government agencies worked with other countries to free her .
The 54-year-old Mrs. Khalifa is married to an Iraqi and has lived in Baghdad for 30 years .
She was kidnapped October 27 .
Meanwhile , the Arab driver of two French reporters kidnapped last August in Iraq has arrived in France with his family .
The man was rescued from a house in Fallujah last week by U.S. Marines .
French authorities granted the family permission to live in France .
The fate of the two journalists is still not known .
India and Pakistan plan to hold a third round of peace talks in January with a focus on security , the Kashmir issue and confidence-building measures between the nuclear rivals .
The two-day talks will begin on January 17 and they will be led by the countries ' foreign secretaries .
They will review progress made so far and also chart a course for future negotiations .
The talks will be under a peace process that the two sides began in January 2004 .
A foreign office spokeswoman in Islamabad also said that the two sides have been holding secret talks on possible reduction of forces in Kashmir and a Pakistani proposal of self-rule in Kashmir .
She did not give any more details and also declined to reveal at what level the talks are being held .
India has not made any comment about the talks .
Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende has confirmed a compromise with Turkey on EU demands that the Turks recognize the Greek-led government of Cyprus before formally opening membership talks .
Mr. Balkanende , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , made the announcement at the conclusion of an EU summit in Brussels .
Earlier , EU officials told reporters Turkey agreed to pledge in writing that before opening EU membership talks next October it will extend its existing customs accord with the union to the 10 new EU members , including Cyprus .
This amounts to indirect recognition of the internationally recognized Greek-led government of the island .
Turkey had previously ruled out any recognition of the Cyprus government and called for EU membership talks without conditions .
Cyprus has been divided between separate Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot administrations since 1974 , but only Turkey recognizes the self-declared Turkish state in northern Cyprus .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko is urging that the trial of former police officers charged in the slaying of journalist Georgy Gongadze to be opened to the public .
Oleh Rybachuk , a top aide to Mr. Yushchenko , went to the courthouse in Kiev Wednesday to express the president 's anger over the closed proceedings .
The three former officers are on trial for the abduction and decapitation of Gongadze in 2000 .
Gongadze had been critical of then-President Leonid Kuchma .
A former presidential bodyguard has accused Mr. Kuchma of ordering the killing , and released what he said were recordings of the former president and other government officials conspiring against the journalist .
Mr. Kuchma has denied any involvement .
President Yushchenko has vowed to solve the case .
A truck carrying Hindu pilgrims has plunged into a gorge in northern India , killing at least 15 people .
Officials say the truck ran off the road in Uttarakhand state Sunday and fell into the deep gorge .
They say the passengers were on their way to the town of Gangotri for a Hindu ritual .
India has frequent road accidents due to reckless driving , poor vehicle maintenance and overcrowding .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel , in Moscow for three days of talks with Russian officials , has announced plans to purchase at least 40 combat helicopters from Moscow .
The MI-35 helicopters are to be be used to patrol Venezuela 's border with Colombia .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has blamed the Colombian government for not doing enough to guard the border against violence spilling over from Colombia 's four-decades-old civil war .
Russian news agency Itar-Tass says the first 10 helicopters will be delivered within the next two months .
Mr. Rangel also met with Russian Security Council head Igor Ivanov Tuesday , and the two officials discussed joint efforts in combatting international terrorism .
The Venezuelan vice president also talked to Russian trade officials about possible investment to build a new one-million-metric-ton per year Venezuelan aluminum plant .
Published reports say the chief U.N. investigator into the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has summoned six top Syrian intelligence officials to Lebanon for questioning .
The Associated Press and the respected pan-Arab daily , al-Hayat , report that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's brother-in-law , General Assef Shawkat , is among those U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis wants to question .
Mr. Mehlis is reported to have sent the request to Damascus on Wednesday through the United Nations .
On Monday , the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution ( 1636 ) demanding Syria 's cooperation with the U.N. investigation , or face " further action . "
Mr. Mehlis issued a report last month on his team 's findings so far .
In it , he linked top Syrian and Lebanese intelligence officials to Mr. Hariri 's February assassination .
Sri Lankans are debating fishing rights a day after a navy patrol boat was blown up by a craft two survivors say was hidden among civilian fishing boats .
The government blames separatist Tamil Tiger rebels for Saturday 's attack that killed at least 13 sailors .
The rebels Sunday accused the Sri Lankan navy of banning Tamils from fishing , saying a thousand families have been affected by the ban .
Associated Press reports a navy official denies a ban is in place , but says the navy is strictly enforcing restrictions on fishing outlined in the cease-fire agreement with Tamils .
The French news agency , AFP , reports the navy has banned fishing at night near the port of Trincomalee .
Sailors that survived the blast say the explosives-laden boat that rammed the navy vesel just outside the port Saturday night was initially concealed among civilian fishing boats .
The United States and Russia are making contingency plans for an emergency evacuation of the two-man crew aboard the International Space Station .
In Moscow Friday , Russian space agency officials say food supplies on the station have fallen below acceptable reserve levels .
They say if a resupply mission scheduled for December 25 is significantly delayed , the crew will be forced to abandon the station .
U.S. space officials termed the situation " critical " , but said there is enough food to last until early January .
Cosmonaut Salizhan Sharipov and astronaut Leroy Chiao are only two months into their scheduled six-month stay aboard the space station .
They have been asked to curb their calorie consumption .
Officials say , if necessary , the two men will be evacuated aboard a Russian Soyuz escape capsule which is always docked at the space station for emergency situations .
Afghan authorities say they have arrested at least six people believed to have been involved in Wednesday 's deadly attack on a United Nations guesthouse in Kabul .
Afghan intelligence chief Amrullah Saleh announced the arrests Saturday .
The Taliban assault killed five foreign U.N. employees and at least two Afghan guards .
The three attackers also were killed .
The Taliban said the attack was the first step in a plan to disrupt Afghanistan 's November 7 presidential runoff election .
Militants stormed the U.N. residence around dawn wearing suicide vests .
U.N. security officers battled them for at least an hour before NATO troops and Afghan police showed up .
United Nations officials have questioned why it took so long for reinforcements to arrive and they called for a strengthening of security measures .
Nigerian authorities are continuing efforts to free the four foreign oil workers kidnapped earlier this week in the country 's oil-rich Niger Delta .
A spokesman for Bayelsa state , where the kidnappings took place , says officials are trying to contact the group that is believed to have abducted the oil workers .
The spokesman says the hostages are alive .
The kidnappers , members of a previously unknown militant group , have demanded the release of a former provincial governor arrested on corruption charges , and the leader of another Niger Delta guerrilla group .
The four oil workers - an American , a Briton , a Bulgarian and a Honduran - were kidnapped Wednesday from an oil platform run by the Royal Dutch Shell company .
Nigerian authorities say they have located a boat carrying the workers and their captors off the country 's southern coast .
The European Parliament 's Foreign Affairs Committee has endorsed the planned 2007 entry of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union , provided they implement essential reforms .
The two votes by the key committee clears the way for a confirmation vote by the full parliament April 13 .
Tuesday , EU Expansion Commissioner Ollie Rehn assured the committee that approval of accession treaties with Bulgaria and Romania will not guarantee them automatic entry .
He said the treaties allow EU leaders to delay entry by as much as a year if the countries do not implement agreed economic , judicial and political reforms .
Many European Parliament members would like to maintain some control of the two countries ' accession process even after the vote confirming the treaties .
Meanwhile , the expansion commissioner assured lawmakers that EU leaders will take their views into account as the accession process continues .
The rule-making Council of the International Association of Athletics Federations ( IAAF ) has approved a three-year waiting period to tighten the procedures for athletes who switch nationalities to compete for other countries .
But after intense debate in Helsinki , Finland Wednesday , a proposal for a six-year waiting period was defeated by a vote of 90 to 80 .
The new IAAF rules are in line with the International Olympic Committee standards .
Previously , athletes were allowed to compete as soon as they completed three years without representing their old country in any major IAAF competition .
Now athletes must wait three years after being granted citizenship to compete in a major international event - or one year if both countries agree .
Dozens of top athletes from Africa - primarily Kenya - have changed nationalities in recent years , most seeking lucrative deals in the Gulf countries of Qatar and Bahrain .
A veteran U.S. journalist says the Bush administration is carrying out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
In a story published in The New Yorker magazine , Seymour Hersh says informed sources told him the Defense Department has sent secret commando teams into the Islamic nation to identify nuclear , chemical and missile sites that could be destroyed by precision airstrikes and commando raids .
Mr. Hersh , who first exposed the abuse of Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison , says a government consultant with close ties to the Pentagon told him " civilians in the Pentagon want to go into Iran and destroy as much of the military infrastructure as possible . "
White House Communications Director Dan Bartlett says Mr. Hersh 's story is " riddled with inaccuracies " with some conclusions not based on fact .
Workers unearthed more bodies Saturday in the northern Philippines , where floods and landslides caused by typhoon Parma have killed more than 200 people .
Officials say the death toll continues to rise and many people are still missing .
The latest fatalities include firefighters who were involved in rescue operations .
Reports from the region say floods are receding , but some area remain under water .
Rescue teams in helicopters and boats are trying to reach residents trapped on the roofs of their homes .
Typhoon Parma hit the country last Saturday , just days after typhoon Ketsana .
The two storms killed about 600 people .
Officials say more than 300,000 people are in makeshift shelters after floods washed away entire villages .
The United Nations has appealed for $ 74 million in emergency aid .
An international envoy has accused Israel of delaying agreements to open a key border crossing for the Gaza Strip .
James Wolfensohn wrote in a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan that the delays are preventing him from moving on to larger issues such as the revival of the Palestinian economy .
Mr. Wolfensohn said in the October 17 letter that because of security concerns , Israel is acting almost as though there had not been a withdrawal , delaying difficult decisions .
Israel denied it is delaying and said it had vital security considerations .
The Rafah foot crossing to Egypt has been largely shut over concerns of arms smuggling since Israeli troops left the Gaza Strip .
A gauge of future U.S. inflation rose at the fastest pace in six months in May , while builders started construction on the lowest number of homes in 17 years during the month .
Tuesday 's report from the Labor Department , called the producer price index , says soaring energy costs pushed prices paid to farms and factories up 1.4 percent last month .
Outside the volatile energy and food areas , prices rose a much more modest two-tenths of a percent .
A separate report from the Commerce Department says the pace of home building declined 3.3 percent from the previous month .
If that rate continues for a whole year , only 975,000 homes would be built .
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak is in New York for talks with the U.S. Mideast envoy George Mitchell , and the issue of Jewish settlements is expected to top the agenda .
Tuesday 's meeting comes one day after news that the Israeli government approved the construction of 50 new housing units in the occupied West Bank , defying U.S. calls to stop settlement expansion .
These units will be built in the Adam settlement north of Jerusalem , and they will be used to relocate people living in the unauthorized Migron outpost .
The new construction is part of a larger plan to build 1,450 housing units in Adam .
On Sunday , Israel 's Cabinet discussed the possibility of limited restrictions on construction of Jewish settlements .
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most powerful , and agreed that he should be declared the victor who could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes .
The North Wind first tried his power and blew with all his might , but the keener his blasts , the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him , until at last , resigning all hope of victory , the Wind called upon the Sun to see what he could do .
The Sun suddenly shone out with all his warmth .
The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays than he took off one garment after another , and at last , fairly overcome with heat , undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in his path .
Persuasion is better than Force .
Sectarian violence in Iraq has claimed the lives of four people near two Sunni mosques in the city of Baquba , north of Baghdad .
Police say five other people were wounded in the blasts , which went off after Friday prayers .
Meanwhile , leaders of the three main political parties are preparing for Monday 's parliamentary session .
Earlier this week , parliament 's acting speaker , Adnan Pachachi , said it would meet to try to break a deadlock over who will be the nation 's next prime minister .
A Shi'ite spokesman said members of the Shi'ite alliance will meet before the parliamentary session to discuss who should fill several important government posts - including the powerful position of prime minister .
Kurdish and Sunni Arab politicians have rejected the Shi'ite candidate - current Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
They say he has done little to stop the sectarian violence ravaging the country .
World oil prices hit record highs for the fifth day in a row Friday .
The price of crude oil for future delivery reached $ 67 a barrel in New York trading .
Prices are up six percent this week and have more than doubled since the end of 2003 .
Analysts blame the latest increases on strong demand for oil , a spate of refinery problems , and worries that Middle East tensions could crimp crude oil supplies .
Soaring prices for imported oil also boosted the U.S. trade deficit six percent in June .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department says the gap between what Americans sell abroad and what they buy reached $ 58.8 billion .
The politically sensitive U.S. trade deficit with China rose to a record $ 17.6 billion .
The U.N. Security Council is urging international donors to follow through on the more than one billion dollars in aid pledged for Haiti last year at a donor conference .
During a U.N. Security Council debate Wednesday , participants said Haiti has received less than one fifth of the promised economic aid .
Haitian leaders also said that with the world 's attention focused on Asian tsunami victims , the impoverished Caribbean nation is in danger of slipping back into crisis .
Haiti is the Western Hemisphere 's poorest nation and has been mired in political and economic turmoil for years .
Meanwhile , the Security Council says it plans a mission to Haiti by June to assess its security situation .
A U.N. peacekeeping mission was sent to Haiti to help control violence following President Jean-Bertrand Aristide 's ouster last February .
Haiti is preparing for elections this November .
A Moscow court has cleared the way for the families of thousands of Polish army officers massacred by the Soviet Union in 1940 to have their cases heard .
A lawyer representing the families say they want to prove the officers were victims of Soviet repression and not criminals .
Tuesday 's Moscow court decision overturned a lower court ruling rejecting the case .
More than 22,000 Polish army officers and other Poles who opposed the Soviet invasion of Poland were rounded up and massacred in the forests outside Katyn in western Russia and other sites in 1940 .
Their bodies were tossed into mass graves .
Soviet authorities blamed the Nazis who occupied parts of Russia and Ukraine for the massacre until 1990 , when Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev admitted Soviet responsibility .
A Taiwan-based computer manufacturer has been selected to make the so-called ' $ 100 laptop computer ' intended to revolutionize education for millions of children in developing countries .
Taiwan 's Quanta Computer company won the contract to further develop and build the low-cost machines .
Quanta says it will devote significant resources to the project during the next six months .
Developers from the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) created the low-cost computer .
It operates by hand-crank when electricity is unavailable and can access wireless networks .
The U.S.-based non-profit group One Laptop Per Child , created by MIT faculty members , aims to provide one laptop to every child in the world .
A news release from MIT says between five and 15 million laptops will be created to launch the project , and will go to children in China , India , Brazil , Argentina , Egypt , Nigeria and Thailand .
The Vatican is preparing for a candlelit vigil mass as Roman Catholics around the world anxiously await the ailing Pope John Paul II 's Easter Sunday blessing to the world .
Thousands of pilgrims are expected in Saint Peter 's Basilica Saturday to observe Holy Saturday ceremonies and to pray for the 84-year-old pontiff .
The pontiff , who is recovering from throat surgery , will not participate in the vigil , but will preside over the Urbi et Orbi to the city and the world Easter blessing on Sunday .
For the first time in his 26-year papacy , the pope , who suffers from Parkinson 's disease , has not been able to preside over Holy Week events .
In a message read at a Good Friday re-enactment of the crucifixion of Jesus at Rome 's Colosseum , Pope John Paul said he was spiritually with the pilgrims attending the ceremony .
U.S. officials say the Department of Homeland Security is to lower the country 's terrorist threat level for mass transit .
The level had been raised last month from " elevated " to " high " for U.S. buses , subways and trains in response to the July 7 suicide bombings in London that killed 56 people , including four attackers .
The alert level is expected to be lowered back to " elevated " after rush hour Friday .
In raising the threat level last month , Homeland Security chief Michael Chertoff said the move was precautionary , and that U.S. officials had no credible information of an imminent attack in the United States .
Afghan officials say a suicide bomber has killed at least 10 people , including two police officers , at a market in the south of the country .
The governor of Nimroz province , Ghulam Dastagir Azad , says the bomber was apparently targeting one of the police officers who was killed in Friday 's blast in the town of Zaranj .
Also Friday , the U.S. military said coalition forces killed five militants in a Thursday attack on a bomb-making network in the southern province of Zabul .
Officials said troops came under fire while pursuing a Taliban militant known to have directed roadside bomb attacks along the country 's major highway .
Also Thursday , the U.S. military says a suicide car bomber killed two U.S. soldiers in the southern province of Kandahar .
Local officials say the blast also killed two Afghan civilians and wounded 21 others .
The Taliban is claiming responsibility for the attack .
The United Nation 's top representative in Kosovo has announced that the international body will soon grant greater power to local authorities in Pristina .
Special Representative Soren Jessen-Petersen said Monday the U.N. Mission in Kosovo ( UNMIK ) will create three new Kosovo cabinet ministries in the areas of energy , local governance , and refugee repatriation .
He also said the mission will establish the post of deputy prime minister and other deputy minister posts in continuing to transfer power to the Kosovo government .
The special representative did not say when the new positions and ministries will be created .
But he stressed that the power transfer will require improved government accountability before the local government 's mid-2005 U.N. review .
The United Nations has administered Kosovo since June 1999 , when a NATO offensive halted Serb repression of ethnic Albanians in the region .
China and Nepal have each increased security in advance of Tuesday 's 50th anniversary of a Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule .
Officials in Tibet have deployed extra police .
Authorities say they are taking action to prevent any possible protests by supporters of exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama .
Nepal has increased police patrols along the border with Tibet to stop any attempt by Tibetan exiles to cross into Chinese-ruled territory .
China 's central government accuses the Dalai Lama of inciting activists to seek independence for Tibet .
The Dalai Lama says he is only campaigning for Tibet 's cultural autonomy .
Peaceful protests in Tibet 's capital last March turned violent after the government sent in troops to disperse crowds .
Iran 's state-run news agency , IRNA , says Iranian and Iraqi security officials have signed a border security pact in the Iranian capital , Tehran .
The report says Iranian and Iraqi border commanders reached the agreement during their first joint meeting Friday .
The report says the two sides agreed on terms for patrolling the shores of the Shatt al-Arab waterway , which marks the southern-most section of Iran and Iraq 's border .
The United States says weapons are being smuggled from Iran into Iraq where they are used by Shi'ite militias .
Along the northern Iranian-Iraqi border Thursday , Kurdish sources reported Iran had resumed shelling inside Iraq 's Kurdish region .
There was no word on any casualties .
In recent months , Iranian forces have clashed with Kurdish rebels in northwestern Iran .
The insurgents are believed to be linked to Turkey 's separatist Kurdistan Workers Party , PKK .
Iraqi security officials say a suicide bomber killed at least 30 people and wounded more than 60 Wednesday after detonating an explosives-filled belt near a crowd of Shi'ite pilgrims .
Officials say the attack took place in Adhamiyah , a Sunni district of Baghdad .
Investigators say at least five other people were killed in separate bombings in the city , including two other pilgrims .
The attacks took place in spite of heavy security in the Iraqi capital , where tens of thousands of worshippers had gathered for ceremonies marking the death of Imam Moussa al-Kadhim , the seventh of 12 revered Imams in Shi'ite Islam .
Police say a series of attacks killed at least six Shi'ite pilgrims in Baghdad
Tuesday .
Wednesday 's suicide bombing took place near a bridge where about 1,000 Shi'ite pilgrims died in a stampede five years ago , after they had gathered for the same ceremony .
Israeli police detained Palestinian presidential candidate Mustafa Barghouti as he campaigned Monday in east Jerusalem .
The arrest came a day after the Israeli cabinet approved measures allowing Palestinian candidates to campaign in east Jerusalem , which Israel captured in the 1967 war and later annexed .
Jerusalem police say Mr. Barghouti had permission to travel through Jerusalem but not to remain in the disputed city .
Israeli media say police released the Palestinian several hours later .
Earlier , Israeli troops shot and killed a Palestinian militant they were trying to arrest near the West Bank city of Nablus .
Israeli authorities say troops first shot out the tires of the militant 's car , then shot him when he tried to run over the soldiers .
Witnesses said the Israeli troops were dressed as civilians .
South African police say controversial mining magnate Brett Kibble has been shot several times and killed while at the wheel of his car .
Authorities say the 41-year-old Mr. Kibble was found dead Tuesday night in his car on a highway overpass in Johannesburg .
They have opened a murder investigation .
Mr. Kibble 's lawyer told a South African radio station ( SAFM ) it appears there was a malicious intent to kill the businessman .
He was the son of mining mogul Roger Kibble .
The younger Mr. Kibble had been executive director of three mining companies until he stepped down last month because the companies ran into financial problems .
Brett Kibble , who was white , was a staunch supporter of efforts to create more opportunities for blacks in South Africa 's business community .
The ruling African National Congress said it was " shocked and saddened " by Mr. Kibble 's death .
The government of Tanzania is appealing for 100,000 tons of food aid .
Officials in the east African country say 3.7 million people are at risk of food shortages because of extended drought .
Prime Minister Edward Lowassa told a donor meeting on Monday that the food shortage is " acute and widespread . "
The request comes as the United Nations reports that some 3,500 Burundians have entered Tanzania to escape a food shortage in their own country .
The drought afflicting east Africa and the Horn of Africa has caused widespread hunger in several countries , including Kenya , Ethiopia , and Somalia .
On Tuesday , the World Meteorological Organization said the drought is likely to persist through early April .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say U.S. and Iraqi troops have ended a nearly two-week operation in the Western Euphrates River Valley .
The U.S. military said Saturday 45 weapons caches were destroyed and 20 suspected insurgents were detained during Operation Wadi Aljundi .
Military officials say no U.S. or Iraqi soldiers were killed .
Separately , the international rights group Human Rights Watch says that Iraqi government interference is threatening the fairness of the Saddam Hussein trial .
The U.S. based group Friday said demands for the resignation of former presiding judge Rizgar Amin amounted to an attack on Iraq 's judicial independence .
Amin quit earlier this month under heavy criticism for not being firm enough in his handling of the former Iraq dictator .
Saddam 's trial is expected to resume Sunday .
An edgy musical about teenagers in 19th-Century Germany emerged the big winner at the 61st annual Tony Awards ceremony .
Spring Awakening , which centers around adolescent sexuality , collected eight awards at the June 10 gala in New York City 's Radio City Music Hall .
Among its honors were best musical and best score , given to Steven Sater and Duncan Sheik .
Taking top drama was Tom Stoppard 's The Coast of Utopia , a three-part look at Russian intellectuals .
Between them , Spring Awakening and The Coast of Utopia received 15 of the evening 's 25 competitive awards .
Other winners include Frank Langella , Best Leading Actor for Frost / Nixon ; Julie White , Best Leading Actress for The Little Dog Laughed ; David Hyde Pierce , Best Leading Actor in a Musical for Curtains ; and Christine Ebersol , Best Leading Actress in a Musical for Grey Gardens .
The Afghan government is welcoming a decision by Iran to temporarily halt plans to expel more than one million undocumented Afghan refugees .
The Iranian government reversed itself following a lobbying campaign by Afghan officials , who said the expulsions would create a humanitarian disaster if carried out during the current harsh winter .
On Wednesday , President Amedinejad authorized a halt to the forced expulsions on humanitarian grounds and in the interests of relations between the two countries .
Iran says it hopes the Afghan government will take the opportunity to put facilities in place to accommodate the refugees once the evictions begin again .
Iran began the expulsions last week , deporting more than 200 Afghan men .
Millions of Afghans fled to Iran after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan almost 30 years ago and the ensuing fighting among Afghan factions .
Iran says the immigrants are a strain on its economy .
Afghan officials say an explosion in the eastern city of Jalalabad has killed two civilians , while 12 Taleban insurgents and eight Afghan police officers were killed in a clash in southern Kandahar province .
Officials say the roadside bomb went off Thursday as the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan , Lieutenant-General Karl Eikenberry , was visiting .
Several people were wounded in the blast .
The U.S.-led coalition said the general was never in any danger .
On Wednesday , a clash between Taleban rebels and a police patrol in Kandahar province 's Panjwayi district left 12 insurgents and eight police dead .
Nine militants and seven policemen were wounded in the fighting .
Meanwhile , Romanian President Traian Basescu who met with his Afghan counterpart , Hamid Karzai in Kabul Thursday , pledged to send additional troops to Afghanistan at NATO 's request .
Currently , Romania has more than 650 soldiers in the country .
Two Pakistani policemen serving as U.N. peacekeepers in Haiti are under investigation on allegations they were involved in prostitution .
A U.N. spokesman says the probe began after a local woman alleged the peacekeepers raped her in the city of Gonaives .
But officials say the woman later acknowledged being paid for sex .
The United Nations says the peacekeepers will face disciplinary action , including repatriation and suspension from duty , if the charges are substantiated by further investigation .
U.N. regulations forbid solicitation .
The probe comes shortly after the United Nations reported abuse of women and girls by U.N. peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Worries about the spread of swine flu virus pushed down oil prices and stock markets in the U.S. , Europe , and Mexico Monday .
At one point , major Mexican stock indexes fell more than three percent , European share prices were off as much as one percent , while U.S. stocks fell about one half of a percent .
Prices for crude oil declined more than $ 3 a barrel on worries that the flu outbreak could curtail air travel .
News reports ay European Union officials are urging their citizens to avoid non-essential travel to the United States and Mexico , while Washington may warn Americans to curtail visits to Mexico as well .
The U.S. Transportation Security Administration says starting this week , it is deploying teams of federal air marshals and uniformed law enforcement officers at bus and train stations across the country .
The agency says these teams will patrol mass transit systems in the cities of Atlanta , Georgia ; Philadelphia , Pennsylvania ; Baltimore , Maryland ; and Washington , D.C. , all in the eastern United States .
They will also patrol bus stations in Houston , Texas , and Amtrak rail lines on the east and west coasts of the United States .
The agency says some of the officers will wear TSA gear , while others will work undercover .
An air marshal spokesman , David Adams , says the service is trying to expand its coverage and tighten security at transit stations over the end-of-the-year holidays .
He said there is no new intelligence suggesting terrorists are targeting public transportation .
Parisians have joined hands and formed a " human chain " around central Paris to mark the sixth anniversary of the abduction of the French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt .
The Colombian rebel group FARC kidnapped Betancourt on February 23rd , 2002 as she campaigned for the Colombian presidency .
French president Nicolas Sarkozy has taken an interest in Betancourt 's case and made securing her release a priority .
Betancourt 's daughter made up part of Saturday 's human chain , along with the recently liberated hostage Consuelo Gonzales .
When we put our house up for sale , I stressed emphatically that my sons make their beds each morning .
I left for work before they left for school , and I wanted to be sure that the house looked presentable when the agent showed it to prospective buyers .
I was surprised and impressed that my 15-year-old son 's bed was perfectly made each day .
One night when I went into his room , I discovered his secret .
He was fast asleep on the floor in his sleeping bag .
Car bomb explosion site near the Sayed Jabir mosque in Abu al-Khasib 20 kilometers south of Basra A series of explosions has rocked the Iraqi capital and other parts of the country , killing at least a dozen people and wounding more than 30 others .
Officials say nine Iraqi soldiers were killed and 20 other people were hurt when a car bomb exploded near a National Guard convoy .
That attack occurred near the Abu Ghraib prison on the western edge of Baghdad .
Earlier , another car bomb blew up near an American patrol on the road to Baghdad 's airport .
At least one Iraqi was killed and 10 other people were wounded , including three American soldiers .
Meanwhile , to the south , near Basra , a car exploded , killing its two passengers and wounding two Iraqis .
It was not immediately clear if the car was carrying the bomb .
The U.S. Government Accountability Office says the federal response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita was poor partly because officials never implemented GAO recommendations made after Hurricane Andrew more than a decade ago .
A report released Wednesday says Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff failed to designate one person as emergency coordinator after Katrina and Rita devastated coastal communities and flooded New Orleans last year .
The report said federal officials ended up waiting for states to request help before moving in with aid .
But the GAO praised the Pentagon , Postal Service , and Coast Guard for anticipating needs ahead of time .
More than 1,000 people died when the storms hit the southern U.S. states of Mississippi and Louisiana .
Tens of thousands of New Orleans residents spent days in disorganized shelters , waiting for help .
The speaker of North Korea 's legislature , Choe Tae Bok , had demanded the United States apologize for labeling his country an " outpost of tyranny . "
Speaking at a conference of regional lawmakers in the Philippines , Mr. Choe also asked U.S. officials to drop what he called a " hostile policy " aimed at regime change in North Korea .
He said the dispute over North Korea 's nuclear program is a result of U.S. policies toward the Communist dictatorship .
Last week , a North Korean official demanded that U.S. officials remove all nuclear threats from the Korean peninsula before new talks on the nuclear issue .
The United States says it has no nuclear weapons on the peninsula , and has repeatedly asked Pyongyang to return to six-party talks .
Two senior overseas division chiefs at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency have joined the exodus of top officials that began after new chief Porter Goss took over .
Sources at the agency said Thursday the heads of the European and Far East divisions are retiring , but that there will be no public announcement identifying them because both have worked undercover .
The New York Times quotes agency sources who say the officials are leaving because of discomfort with Mr. Goss ' new top management team .
Last week , the agency 's deputy operations director and his immediate assistant announced their departures .
CIA sources also blamed those resignations on the aides that Mr. Goss brought with him from Congress .
The CIA 's former number two man , John McLaughlin , resigned earlier this month for what he said were personal reasons .
Mr. Goss took over in September with a mandate from the Bush administration to reform the agency .
A U.S. appeals court says rules that punish broadcasters for accidental use of profanity in live broadcasts may need to be rewritten .
The appeals court Monday told the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) to reconsider a 2006 indecency rule , which the court called arbitrary and capricious .
The judges also said the rules might violate free speech rights .
Fox Broadcasting praised the ruling and said it should be up to viewers to determine which programs are appropriate for them and their families .
The FCC enforced the rule after two U.S. celebrities , Cher and Nicole Richie , used profanity during music award shows broadcast live by Fox in 2002 and 2003 .
The FCC might appeal the decision to a higher court .
Ukraine 's parliament has called for the immediate withdrawal of the country 's troops from Iraq , following the death of eight Ukrainian soldiers on Sunday .
The lawmakers called for the pull-out in a non-binding resolution Tuesday .
President Leonid Kuchma on Monday ordered the country 's foreign and defense ministries to draft a plan for withdrawing the troops over the next six months .
The eight Ukrainian soldiers were killed Sunday in an explosion at an ammunition dump in central Iraq .
Officials in Iraq say the blast was an accident , but Ukrainian officials say they are looking into whether it was an attack .
Ukrainian President-elect Viktor Yushchenko has promised to make withdrawing Ukraine 's more than 1,600 troops in Iraq a top priority .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says coalition forces killed four Afghan policemen and wounded a fifth after mistaking them for militants .
The military says the incident occurred during a firefight Thursday , near Gereshk in Helmand province , when U.S. troops battling militants opened fire on an approaching vehicle carrying five armed men - all Afghan police officers out of uniform .
Afghan officials confirmed the Americans ' account of the shooting .
The U.S. military said the regrettable incident is being investigated .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair is heading to Turkey , in the first stop of a Middle East tour aimed at reviving the Israeli-Palestinian peace process .
The prime minister 's office says Mr. Blair is to meet in Ankara with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to discuss Middle East issues and Turkey 's hope for joining the European Union .
Details of his other stops in the region were not immediately available .
Mr. Blair left for Turkey Friday from Brussels , where he was attending a European Union summit .
At the Brussels meeting , EU leaders urged Syria to stop interfering in Lebanon 's affairs , and noted what they called the negative impact of Iranian policies on the stability and security of the Middle East .
The EU leaders called on Iran to play a " responsible role " in the Middle East region .
The president of the state-run Russian oil firm Rosneft says a court has granted its request to freeze some assets of the embattled oil firm Yukos .
Rosneft executive Sergei Bogdanchikov said in Kazakhstan Wednesday that the assets frozen include a 20 percent stake in Sibneft , a firm Yukos had planned to merge with in 2003 .
The Itar-Tass news agency quotes Mr. Bogdanchikov as saying Rosneft is trying to reclaim $ 3.5 billion .
Rosneft assumed debt from a key Yukos production unit it acquired after the unit was sold in a disputed government auction last year .
Yukos has been the target of an intense wide-ranging government probe .
Critics accuse the Kremlin of persecuting the firm for former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky 's support of the political opposition .
The Kremlin says Khodorkovsky committed massive fraud .
The former Yukos head was recently sentenced to nine years in a prison camp for tax evasion and fraud .
Unidentified gunmen have attacked a hotel in central Baghdad , killing six people and kidnapping a Turkish businessman .
Authorities say the incident occurred early Thursday , when gunmen opened fire on a minibus that came to pickup the businessman staying in the hotel .
Separately , the U.S. military says coalition forces have rounded up dozens of suspected insurgents in raids across Iraq ahead of the January 30 national assembly elections .
Iraq 's interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi and President Bush have said the election must go ahead as scheduled .
The non-governmental International Organization for Migration is arranging for the casting of ballots for nearly one-million eligible expatriate Iraqis living in 14 countries , including the United States .
U.S. President Barack Obama says he is bringing Congress an ambitious overhaul of the country 's education system .
In his weekly internet and radio address Saturday , Mr. Obama says his plan will help ensure all students graduate high school ready for " college and a career . "
The plan will be a major overhaul to the education plan of his predecessor , George W. Bush .
Mr. Bush 's program , called No Child Left Behind , has been controversial because it relies heavily on standardized testing and penalizes schools that do not meet national standards .
Mr. Obama says his plan will decentralize education reform .
He said the federal government will set a " high bar , " but that local schools and districts will have " flexibility " in how they reach it .
He says he will present his plan to Congress on Monday .
Venezuelan media say President Hugo Chavez heads to ally Cuba Monday .
Reports say Mr. Chavez had planned to start the official trip Sunday .
The reason for the delay was not clear .
Mr. Chavez visited Cuban leader Fidel Castro last month , in what a newspaper called a " gesture of solidarity . "
The Venezuelan leader also wanted to check on Mr. Castro 's health , following his accidental fall in October .
Venezuela 's opposition accuses Mr. Chavez of trying to impose Cuban-style communism at home .
China and Vietnam have announced new measures to halt a potential spread of bird flu .
China says it is suspending imports of poultry and related products from 14 countries that have reported bird flu outbreaks .
Vietnam has announced a ban on imports of poultry and pet birds from affected countries .
It also banned the raising of poultry in urban areas and halted sale of blood pudding , a local delicacy made from the raw blood of poultry or other animals .
Meanwhile , heads of government from Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Thailand and Vietnam are meeting today in Bangkok to discuss the bird flu situation .
And a Chinese drugmaker is in talks with Swiss drugmaker Roche about making Tamiflu , used to treat bird flu in humans .
Tuesday , President Bush outlined a $ 7 billion plan to prepare the United States for a possible bird flu pandemic .
A Democratic Party lawmaker says the energy bill recently passed by the U.S. House of Representatives fails to promote fuel efficiency and will increase energy costs .
Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts says the House bill also fails to reduce the country 's dependence on foreign oil .
In the Democrats ' weekly radio address , Mr. Markey said the bill gives billions of dollars in tax breaks to oil firms , and frees them from liability connected to some cases of water contamination .
He also criticized what he called desperate oil drilling schemes that ruin wildlife and wilderness areas .
The bill , which passed Thursday by a vote of 249 - 183 , allows an Alaskan wildlife refuge to be opened for oil drilling - a proposal that environmentalists have condemned .
Republicans say the energy plan will help expand domestic energy production and promote conservation .
Emergency officials in Honduras say the death toll from tropical storm Gamma has risen to 32 in the country , with others reported missing .
The storm had previously been blamed for at least 11 deaths in Honduras as it left a trail of destruction in Central America .
Many homes were buried by mud , and U.S. military and Honduran aircraft flew aid to survivors who had been cut off by flooding and mudslides along the Caribbean coast .
The bad weather was also blamed for a plane crash that killed the pilot and two passengers in Belize .
The storm later weakened to a tropical depression , as it dissipated in the Caribbean Sea .
Gamma was the 24th named storm of this year 's record-breaking Atlantic hurricane season .
Nepal 's Supreme Court has ordered the release of 37 political activists who were jailed as part of the royalist government 's crackdown on protest rallies in recent weeks .
The court issued the order Friday after finding no reason to uphold the government 's arbitrary detentions of the political opponents .
The government says the arrests were justified because Maoist rebels could have taken advantage of the protest rallies to spread violence .
King Gyanendra seized absolute power a year ago .
He said the move was necessary to curb the Maoist insurgency that has killed some 13,000 people since 1996 .
Meanwhile , Reporters Without Borders says Nepal 's government has arrested more journalists since 2004 than any other country in the world .
The Paris-based media rights group says over the last four weeks , at least 114 journalists were rounded up while doing their jobs or protesting for press freedom .
Former U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush are on their way to Asia on a four-nation tour to inspect the devastation caused by last year 's tsunami .
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush will visit Indonesia , Sri Lanka , Thailand and the Maldives .
They will tour hard-hit areas of Indonesia 's Aceh province and visit refugee camps .
The two former presidents are hoping to counter donor fatigue and help keep the focus on the vast amount of work that still needs to be done to rebuild the region .
More than 200,000 people are dead or missing in 11 countries hit by the tsunami on the morning of December 26 , 2004 .
Earlier this year , Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton were appointed by President Bush to spearhead fundraising efforts in the United States .
This South Pacific island economy is based primarily on small-scale agriculture , which provides a living for about two-thirds of the population .
Fishing , offshore financial services , and tourism , with nearly 197,000 visitors in 2008 , are other mainstays of the economy .
Mineral deposits are negligible ; the country has no known petroleum deposits .
A small light industry sector caters to the local market .
Tax revenues come mainly from import duties .
Economic development is hindered by dependence on relatively few commodity exports , vulnerability to natural disasters , and long distances from main markets and between constituent islands .
In response to foreign concerns , the government has promised to tighten regulation of its offshore financial center .
In mid-2002 , the government stepped up efforts to boost tourism through improved air connections , resort development , and cruise ship facilities .
Agriculture , especially livestock farming , is a second target for growth .
Australia and New Zealand are the main suppliers of tourists and foreign aid .
The crews of the space shuttle Atlantis and the International Space Station have wrapped up their joint work and are preparing for the shuttle 's return to Earth .
The crews said farewell to each other and then closed the hatches between the two spacecrafts Sunday afternoon .
Atlantis will undock from the orbiter early Monday for a return to Earth Wednesday .
Saturday morning the space station was realigned in orbit to place it in a better position to receive future missions .
The Atlantis astronauts completed three spacewalks during their mission .
NASA is preparing landing sites for Atlantis at Cape Canaveral in Florida and a backup site at Edwards Air Force Base in California .
Modern Turkey was founded in 1923 from the Anatolian remnants of the defeated Ottoman Empire by national hero Mustafa KEMAL , who was later honored with the title Ataturk or " Father of the Turks . "
Under his authoritarian leadership , the country adopted wide-ranging social , legal , and political reforms .
After a period of one-party rule , an experiment with multi-party politics led to the 1950 election victory of the opposition Democratic Party and the peaceful transfer of power .
Since then , Turkish political parties have multiplied , but democracy has been fractured by periods of instability and intermittent military coups ( 1960 , 1971 , 1980 ) , which in each case eventually resulted in a return of political power to civilians .
In 1997 , the military again helped engineer the ouster - popularly dubbed a " post-modern coup " - of the then Islamic-oriented government .
Turkey intervened militarily on Cyprus in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of the island and has since acted as patron state to the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus , " which only Turkey recognizes .
A separatist insurgency begun in 1984 by the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) - now known as the People 's Congress of Kurdistan or Kongra-Gel ( KGK ) - has dominated the Turkish military 's attention and claimed more than 30,000 lives .
After the capture of the group 's leader in 1999 , the insurgents largely withdrew from Turkey mainly to northern Iraq .
In 2004 , KGK announced an end to its ceasefire and attacks attributed to the KGK increased .
Turkey joined the UN in 1945 and in 1952 it became a member of NATO .
In 1964 , Turkey became an associate member of the European Community .
Over the past decade , it has undertaken many reforms to strengthen its democracy and economy ; it began accession membership talks with the European Union in 2005 .
China has confirmed an outbreak of bird flu in poultry in the western Xinjiang region .
State media say the virus was identified after domestic poultry died at a farm in Hetian County .
Officials confirmed the cause of death was the deadly H5N1 viral strain .
Wednesday , Asian and Pacific nations held a 24-hour disaster exercise , to practice coordinating information about managing a bird flu outbreak .
Indonesia and Vietnam have suffered significant human losses from bird flu cases believed to have been transmitted from bird to human .
The World Health Organization is investigating whether the deaths of seven members of one family in Indonesia could be linked to human-to-human transmission of the virus .
More than 120 people , most of them in Asia , have died of bird flu since late 2003 .
Israeli helicopter gunships hit targets in the Gaza Strip early Tuesday , in response to rockets fired into Israel from the Palestinian territory .
There were no reports of casualties arising from either attack .
Palestinian witnesses say the Israeli missiles hit a northern Gaza office of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah party at Beit Lahyia .
Israeli officials say the buildings they targeted were used by Fatah-linked militants of the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , which claimed reponsibility Monday 's rocket attack against Israel .
An Israeli plane also dropped a bomb on a nearby road .
Israel has warned it will enforce a buffer zone in northern Gaza to stop militants who have continued to aim makeshift rockets at Israel despite the Jewish state 's withdrawal from Gaza in September .
The United Nations ' Food and Agriculture Organization says people in developing nations are now less vulnerable to the soaring food prices that sparked riots in some areas in 2008 .
Food prices hit record highs last year , but a FAO report says prices are easing downward this year , and will not soar again unless there is some unforeseen problem with a significant crop .
But the report 's authors caution that while prices have declined , they are still high enough to cause problems for the poor , who are also suffering from declining incomes due to the economic downturn .
Last year 's high food prices were blamed on many factors , including rising demand from the biofuel industry , speculation , and export limits by some producing nations .
President Bush has told U.S. citizens that poverty in Latin America has caused some citizens there to question the value of democracy .
In his weekly radio address delivered Saturday , during a visit to Latin America , Mr. Bush said many citizens of new democracies in the region remain trapped in poverty that keeps them from getting proper education and health care .
He said the United States has a vital interest in helping those nations succeed and prosper .
Mr. Bush said the United States is helping new democracies in the Western Hemisphere make their governments more fair , effective , and transparent .
He said the U.S. is helping them meet needs like education , health care , and housing , as well as increasing economic opportunities by relieving debt .
Burma 's military government has revoked the licenses of two private banks accused by Washington of money laundering and links to drug dealers .
The Ministry of Finance and Revenue announced late Friday that the licenses of the Asia Wealth Bank and the Myanmar Mayflower Bank had been revoked on Thursday for violation of banking laws .
The announcement did not specify which laws the banks had violated .
The U.S. State Department has accused the banks of laundering drug money .
The statement in Burma said depositors could come to the banks beginning Monday to withdraw their money .
It also warned people owing money to the banks to make their payments immediately or face legal action .
Other private and state-owned banks will continue to operate as usual .
Indian police say they have killed three suspected Islamic militants in a shootout in the Indian portion of Kashmir .
Local authorities say the incident occurred Thursday in Doda district north of the winter capital , Jammu , and that the three belonged to the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba militant group .
Lashkar-e-Toiba is one of about a dozen Muslim separatist groups that have been fighting since 1989 for an independent Kashmir or its merger with Pakistan .
Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the conflict .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton flies Sunday to Latin America , where she is expected to focus on Chile 's deadly earthquake and Brazil 's relations with Iran .
Clinton begins her five-day tour in Uruguay , where she will attend the inauguration of President-elect Jose Mujica .
She is due next in Chile , unless the 8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck Saturday disrupts her plans .
Wednesday 's visit to Brazil will be the centerpiece of Clinton 's diplomatic efforts .
She plans to lobby Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to support new sanctions against Iran .
Brazil is a voting member of the U.N. Security Council , but has warm relations with Iran and has been reluctant to further punish Tehran for its nuclear enrichment program .
Clinton ends her tour in Costa Rica and Guatemala , where she will also meet the leaders of the Dominican Republic and El Salvador .
A top Russian official in charge of preparations for the G-8 summit is expressing concern over the international atmosphere ahead of the July meeting in St. Petersburg .
Igor Shuvalov told reporters in Moscow his country hopes the summit will result in Russia 's full acceptance as an equal G-8 partner .
He raised specific concerns over negative western news media portrayals of developments in Russia , which he indicated do not always correspond to reality .
The Russian official said his government has hired the U.S.-based public relations firm Ketchum to help deal with the problem .
Mr. Shuvalov listed ensuring energy security , dealing with infectious diseases and improving education as his country 's top priorities for the summit .
Russian President Vladimir Putin is hosting the annual summit of the world 's seven leading industrial countries plus Russia for the first time since his country joined the group in 2002 .
The U.S. dollar has fallen to another record low against the Euro .
The Euro rose to $ 1.37 in New York trading Thursday , after a report showed manufacturing slowing down in the Chicago area , one of the nation 's economic centers .
The European currency first rose above $ 1.36 on Monday .
Many economists predict the dollar will continue to fall in 2005 .
Several European finance ministers have blamed the drop on the large U.S. large trade and budget deficits .
A weak dollar makes U.S. exports cheaper on world markets , but hurts European traders .
It also attracts Europeans to U.S. cities and stores .
The Bush administration says it is committed to a strong dollar .
But it has taken no direct action , saying markets should determine exchange rates .
Iran 's Economy Minister says his country is seeking Russian help to build a second nuclear reactor .
The Interfax news agency quotes Safdar Hosseini , who is on a visit to Moscow , as saying Friday Tehran and Moscow have reached a preliminary agreement on building another reactor at the Bushehr nuclear power plant in southern Iran .
The news agency reports that Russian nuclear chief Alexander Rumyantsev confirmed the two countries are in talks .
Russia has an $ 800 million contract to build the main facility , which is expected to be finished late next year and go on-line in early 2006 .
Iran 's nuclear ambitions have come under intense international scrutiny following accusations by U.S. officials that it is secretly building nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran has repeatedly denied .
A BITCH , ready to whelp , earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she might litter .
When her request was granted , she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot .
The shepherd again consented .
But at last the Bitch , protected by the bodyguard of her Whelps , who had now grown up and were able to defend themselves , asserted her exclusive right to the place and would not permit the shepherd to approach .
Nepalese officials say the country 's prime minister has asked the Maoists to form a new government .
Nepal 's Peace Minister Ram Chandra Poudel told reporters in Kathmandu Saturday that Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala asked the former rebels to begin forming a coalition government , after the Maoists won the most seats in April 's election of a new constituent assembly .
Maoist leaders and the prime minister plan to discuss details during a meeting on Sunday .
Meanwhile , Nepal 's newly-elected constituent assembly will meet for the first time on Wednesday , May 28 .
Lawmakers are expected to begin work to abolish the centuries-old monarchy , and draft a new constitution .
The Maoists agreed to a peace deal with Nepal 's government in 2006 , after a decade-long civil war that claimed at least 13,000 lives .
Philippine GDP grew 7.3 % in 2010 , spurred by consumer demand , a rebound in exports and investments , and election-related spending .
The economy weathered the 2008 - 09 global recession better than its regional peers due to minimal exposure to troubled international securities , lower dependence on exports , relatively resilient domestic consumption , large remittances from four- to five-million overseas Filipino workers , and a growing business process outsourcing industry .
Economic growth in the Philippines averaged 4.5 % during the MACAPAGAL-ARROYO administration .
Despite this growth , poverty worsened , because of a high population growth rate and inequitable distribution of income .
The AQUINO administration is working to reduce the government deficit from 3.9 % of GDP , when it took office , to 2 % of GDP by 2013 .
The government has had little difficulty issuing debt both locally and internationally to finance the deficits .
AQUINO 's first budget emphasizes education , health , conditional cash transfers for the poor , and other social spending programs , relying on the private sector to finance important infrastructure projects .
Weak tax collection , exacerbated by new tax breaks and incentives , has limited the government 's ability to address major challenges .
The AQUINO administration has vowed to focus on improving tax collection efficiency - rather than imposing new taxes - as a part of its good governance platform .
The Afghan government said it has held positive talks with Taliban militants in an effort to encourage peace in the face of an increasingly bloody insurgency .
Presidential spokesman Humayun Hamidzada said Tuesday officials were in contact with militants at various levels but gave no other details .
He also said some of Afghanistan 's international allies have agreed to remove militants ' names from wanted lists if they accepted the Afghan constitution .
Taliban members ' names appear on blacklists in the United States , some European countries and at the United Nations .
U.S. President Barack Obama has said he would consider holding talks with Taliban militants who are willing to renounce violence and reconcile .
The idea is part of his revised strategy to stabilize Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan .
Taliban and other insurgents have made a comeback in Afghanistan , causing the highest level of violence since a U.S.-led coalition ousted the Taliban government in 2001 .
Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499 , Aruba was acquired by the Dutch in 1636 .
The island 's economy has been dominated by three main industries .
A 19th century gold rush was followed by prosperity brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil refinery .
The last decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the tourism industry .
Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986 and became a separate , autonomous member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba 's request in 1990 .
International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge said Saturday athletes taking part in the Beijing Olympics will be free to criticize China , but asked them to do it away from Olympic venues .
Rogge said athletes are free to express their opinions but he urged them to avoid what he termed " propaganda " in stadiums , the Olympic village and other official sites .
He says there are athletes from 205 countries taking part in the Games and many come from countries engaged in religious or military conflicts .
Rogge warned that using the neutral Olympic venues for political demonstrations could threaten what he called the " harmony " of the Games .
Lithuania has become the first European Union member state to ratify the bloc 's new constitution .
The ratification bill passed parliament Thursday by 84 votes to four , with three abstentions .
The constitution will create an EU president and foreign minister .
It is aimed at speeding up decision-making by ending national vetoes in certain policy areas , including the economy , the judiciary and education .
Supporters called ratification a " logical " and " honorable " step .
But opponents called it a blow to Lithuania 's independence .
The Baltic country 's president , Valdas Adamkus , was one of 25 EU leaders who signed the constitution on October 29 in Rome .
The constitution will come into effect in two years if the remaining member states ratify it .
Eritrea says a group of United Nations workers detained by local authorities recently were picked up for " national service . "
Eritrea 's ambassador the United States , Girma Asmerom , tells VOA that the Eritreans were not arrested , but rounded up to serve in the army , or in a medical or agricultural capacity .
U.N. spokesman Stefane Dujarric tells VOA Eritrea is now holding 11 U.N. staffers - down from the 13 it said were rounded up earlier this week .
The spokesman says the detentions are part of a series of moves by the Eritrean government making it difficult for the U.N. mission there to do its work .
Late last year , Eritrea expelled Western U.N. peacekeepers from its territory and banned U.N. helicopter flights over the country .
Eritrea complains the international community has not done enough to make Ethiopia accept a borderline drawn by an independent panel .
The State Department says U.S. officials are assessing the damage caused by Sunday 's natural disasters in Asia .
A spokesman , Noel Clay , says the disasters have caused communication problems , making it hard for U.S. officials to get a full picture of the devastation .
But Mr. Clay tells VOA that Washington will likely offer aid to countries affected by the catastrophe .
He says officials may issue a statement later Sunday .
The spokesman says it is " too early to tell " whether the disasters killed or injured any Americans .
U.S. officials are unsure how many U.S. citizens may be in the affected region .
The international conservation group Greenpeace accuses Spain of overdeveloping its Mediterranean coastline , which it says could cause irreversible damage .
Greenpeace says in a new report that Spanish developers plan to build more than 200,000 hotel rooms and hundreds of golf courses and marinas .
The group says Spanish police are currently investigating more than 100 cases of corruption that it says has led to illegal building along protected coastal areas .
Spanish officials have not yet responded to Greenpeace .
The European Parliament last week condemned Spain for what it called the disastrous effect development has had on the coastal environment .
President Bush makes his first trip to India and Pakistan this week , on a visit to build ties and discuss several bilateral agreements .
U.S. and Indian negotiators are working to finalize a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement ahead of Mr. Bush 's arrival in New Delhi Wednesday .
The United States is trying to reach a deal that would offer India civilian nuclear technology in exchange for assurances that it will not be used for military purposes .
In an interview Friday with Indian television , the president said the politics of the agreement are difficult but it is important that India develops a safe and secure civilian nuclear program .
Mr. Bush told Pakistani television that U.S. relations with Pakistan are much larger than just the war on terrorism .
Mr. Bush said he looked forward to discussing a bilateral investment treaty and increasing student exchanges .
Modern-day Laos has its roots in the ancient Lao kingdom of Lan Xang , established in the 14th Century under King FA NGUM .
For 300 years Lan Xang had influence reaching into present-day Cambodia and Thailand , as well as over all of what is now Laos .
After centuries of gradual decline , Laos came under the domination of Siam ( Thailand ) from the late 18th century until the late 19th century when it became part of French Indochina .
The Franco-Siamese Treaty of 1907 defined the current Lao border with Thailand .
In 1975 , the Communist Pathet Lao took control of the government ending a six-century-old monarchy and instituting a strict socialist regime closely aligned to Vietnam .
A gradual , limited return to private enterprise and the liberalization of foreign investment laws began in 1988 .
Laos became a member of ASEAN in 1997 .
Leading members of the U.S. Senate are saying they expect Secretary of State-designate Condoleezza Rice to gain easy confirmation .
The Senate 's Republican whip ( second-ranking member ) Mitch McConnell says he thinks Ms. Rice , the outgoing national security advisor , could face tough questions during her confirmation hearings .
However , he and newly elected Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid predict her nomination will be approved .
On Tuesday , President Bush nominated the 50-year-old former academic to succeed Colin Powell , whose resignation was announced one day earlier .
In his announcement at the White House , the president said Ms. Rice is the right person to handle foreign policy challenges that include the war on terror and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
Ms. Rice said she looks forward to pursuing the president 's agenda .
The president also said he is appointing Ms. Rice 's deputy , Stephen Hadley , to replace her as national security advisor .
Zimbabwe 's main opposition party , the Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC ) , says it will take part in parliamentary elections scheduled for March 31 .
Party spokesman Paul Themba Nyathi made the announcement Thursday .
The party had threatened to boycott the poll if conditions are not in place to ensure a free and fair ballot .
Mr. Nyathi said the opposition continues to have concerns about the election system in the country .
The opposition and western governments , including Britain and the United States , say Zimbabwe 's last two elections in 2000 and 2002 were seriously marred by irregularities .
Earlier this year , President Robert Mugabe passed legislation to reform the nation 's electoral system , but the opposition has said the new provisions do not go far enough .
Ukraine 's parliament has called on President Leonid Kuchma to withdraw the nation 's 1,600 peacekeeping troops from Iraq .
The non-binding measure was approved by 257 lawmakers Friday .
Ukraine 's is one of the largest contingents in the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq , and many Ukrainians want it withdrawn .
Rival presidential candidate , opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , have both called for the withdrawal .
Meanwhile , Poland 's Defense Minister says a Ukrainian withdrawal would deal a fresh blow to the multinational division his country commands in Iraq .
Jerzy Szmajdzinski said the Ukrainian troops are currently deployed in a key province along the Iranian border and would have to be replaced because the frontier must be guarded .
A U.S. military court has acquitted an Army sergeant of involuntary manslaughter in the alleged drowning of an Iraqi civilian last January in Samarra , but convicted the 14-year veteran of assault .
The jury in the court martial of Sergeant First Class Tracy Perkins in Fort Hood , Texas found him guilty late Friday of the lesser charge in connection with what prosecutors say was the drowning of 19-year-old Zaidoun Fadel Hassoun .
Sergeant Perkins faces a maximum of 11-and-a-half years in prison .
Mr. Hassoun 's cousin , Marwan Fadel Hassoun , had testified that U.S. soldiers forced him and his cousin to jump into the Tigris River , then laughed as Zaidoun Hassoun drowned .
The two men had been detained for violating a curfew .
Defense attorney 's argued that no body was ever found , and defense witnesses testified they saw two men climb out of the river .
U.S. First Lady Laura Bush focused on children 's issues on her first full day in India , Thursday .
She visited the television studio where the Indian version of the children 's show " Sesame Street " is taped to record a guest appearance .
After chatting with several characters on the program Mrs. Bush helped one learn to count to five in English .
She also met with boys and girls at a center providing shelter and education to neglected children .
One stop the first lady 's schedule will not include is the famous Taj Mahal .
In a luncheon speech , Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said he was sorry President Bush was not taking her to the romantic landmark , and hoped he would be more chivalrous on a future visit .
France 's Richard Gasquet will meet Max Mirnyi of Belarus in the final of the Nottingham Open tennis tournament Saturday after both scored semifinal wins in England .
The fourth-seeded Gasquet beat fifth seed Taylor Dent of the United States in straight sets , 6-4 , 6-2 .
Mirnyi , seeded eighth , also won in straight sets , but he had a more difficult time .
He beat seventh-seeded Olivier Rochus of Belgium , 6-4 , 7-5 .
The grass court tournament is one of several warm-up events for the third major tournament of the year , Wimbledon , which starts Monday in London .
Gasquet will be seeded 27th at the All England Club , while Mirnyi is unseeded .
Lebanon 's newly chosen prime minister , Najib Mikati , has begun talks to form a cabinet , amid rising hopes that the country 's parliamentary elections will be held by the end of May .
The cabinet discussions began Saturday , one day after Lebanese President Emile Lahoud named the moderate pro-Syrian politician as the new prime minister .
Mr. Mikati said his priorities will be holding elections , reviving economic growth , and cooperating with the U.N. probe into February 's assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Lebanon has been without a government since former Prime Minister Omar Karami resigned after the Hariri killing , which the opposition blames on pro-Syrian agents .
President Lahoud re-appointed Mr. Karami , but he quit again this week after failing to form a new government .
Third-seeded Dinara Safina of Russia has easily defeated Iveta Benesova of the Czech Republic , 6-0 , 6-1 , to advance to the third round of the women 's Gold Coast hardcourt tennis championships in Australia .
In other matches Tuesday , fourth-seeded Flavia Pennetta of Italy beat China 's Li Na , 6-2 , 6-2 .
Number-eight Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain defeated Aiko Nakamura of Japan , 6-4 , 6-4 , while teenager Lucie Safarova of the Czech Republic scored a three-set win over Slovakia 's Jarmila Gajdosova ( 4-6 , 7-5 , 6-4 ) .
Meanwhile in doubles , comeback player Martina Hingis of Switzerland teamed up with Tatiana Golovin of France to beat Athens Olympic doubles gold medalists Li Ting and Sun Tiantian of China , 6-1 , 6-4 .
The 25-year-old Hingis is making a return to the circuit after retiring three years ago due to a series of chronic foot injuries .
Representatives of the European Union and China have begun a fourth day of talks in Beijing to resolve a trade dispute over Chinese textiles .
There is no word on any progress in the talks , which began Thursday .
A spokesman for the EU office in Beijing has said negotiators are trying to reach a new agreement on textile quotas .
China agreed in June to quotas in its textile exports to the EU .
But millions of items of clothing manufactured in China have been blocked in European ports because China has already shipped its annual quota .
The quotas are designed to protect European textile manufacturers from low-priced Chinese competition .
Chinese textile exports surged early this year when a global system of textile quotas ended .
South Korea 's foreign minister says he thinks the six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions may resume in February .
Ban Ki-moon was speaking to reporters at the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland Friday .
Earlier , Japan said it will hold bilateral talks with North Korea in China next week .
Japanese officials said the working-level talks will focus on Pyongyang 's past abduction of Japanese nationals , normalization of diplomatic ties and North Korea 's nuclear and missile programs .
The latest round of six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear programs has been stalled since November .
North Korea wants the United States to lift economic sanctions against Pyongyang before returning to the table .
Washington has rejected the demand .
Russian lawmakers have slightly modified a bill that critics say would undermine operations of non-governmental organizations in the country .
The State Duma overwhelmingly approved on second reading the measure that would expand oversight of non-governmental groups and ban their acceptance of foreign funds for political activities .
The lawmakers approved a set of amendments suggested by Russian President Vladimir Putin , including doing away with a clause that would require foreign NGOs to register as Russian entities .
The United States repeatedly has expressed concern over the bill .
A State Department Spokesman Sean McCormack said the changes met some of these concerns .
But he said U.S. officials will withhold final judgment until they analyze the bill in depth .
One more vote in the Duma is needed for final approval .
Human rights groups have condemned the measure as a reflection of the Kremlin 's crackdown on civil society institutions .
Doctors say Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon remains in critical but stable condition - 10 days after suffering a massive stroke .
Jerusalem 's Hadassah hospital issued the update on Mr. Sharon 's condition Saturday evening after the end of the Jewish sabbath .
The hospital said medical tests showed that Mr. Sharon has activity in both of his brain lobes .
For several days , doctors have been reducing the level of sedatives , with the intent of drawing the 77-year-old Mr. Sharon out of an induced coma .
However , he has not shown any signs of waking up .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon has condemned an attack on a Chihuahua drug rehabilitation facility that left 19 people dead .
Mr. Calderon issued a statement from Johannesburg where he attended the opening of the World Cup .
He said the attack by more than 24 armed men reinforces the conviction to fight criminal gangs that carry out such " barbaric acts . "
On Thursday , a gang of gunmen killed 20 people in another northern Mexican town known for drug-related gang warfare .
Authorities say some of the 18 men and two women killed in the series of shootings in Madero were bound in handcuffs .
An estimated 23,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence in Mexico since President Calderon began a crackdown on the drug cartels after taking office in December 2006 .
Tibetans around the world are celebrating the 46th anniversary of their Democracy Day .
Among the exiled Tibetan community in India and elsewhere , formal and informal celebrations are being held Saturday .
At a Tibetan school in New Delhi , a gathering of people heard speeches by dignitaries including a representative of Tibetan spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama .
Students at the school performed Tibetan cultural songs and dances for those in attendance .
On September 2 , 1960 , a 13-member assembly of Tibetan exiles met for the first time in Dharamsala , northern India .
The Tibetan community observes this day each year as Democracy Day .
U.S. President Barack Obama has signed into law a $ 2 billion extension to the popular " cash for clunkers " auto rebate program .
Mr. Obama signed the legislation Friday .
The Senate approved the extension late Thursday .
The " cash for clunkers " incentive program has helped boost U.S. auto sales .
The program gives car owners up to $ 4,500 in rebates to trade in older , gas-guzzling vehicles for newer , more fuel-efficient models .
The House of Representatives approved the bill last week to replenish funding for the program , which nearly exhausted its initial $ 1 billion funding limit within a matter of days .
The Obama administration had said the program would have gone broke by Friday if Congress did not approve the extension .
Police said a bomb blast in eastern Sri Lanka has killed one police officer and one civilian .
Authorities said Tamil Tiger rebels were responsible for the blast in the town of Batticaloa .
They said the blast wounded 11 people , including four schoolchildren .
A Tamil Tiger spokesman could not be reached for comment .
The bombing came as the military surrounded the rebels in the country 's northeast in a push to end the 25-year-old civil war .
Journalists are often unable to independently confirm military and rebel reports because they are barred from the war zone .
An advance team of Chinese engineers and medical officers arrived in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region Saturday .
A United Nations spokesman says the 135 personnel are the first of a 315-member army engineering unit that will support that joint African Union-U.N. peacekeeping mission to Darfur .
The rest of the Chinese force is due to arrive in December .
The Chinese engineering team will dig wells and build roads and bridges in preparation for the deployment of the 26,000-member peacekeeping force scheduled to begin arriving in January .
That force will replace 7,000 beleaguered African Union peacekeepers .
The Sudanese government has welcomed the Chinese mission to Darfur .
But critics object to Beijing 's involvement because they say Chinese-made weapons that have found their way to the troubled region have contributed to genocide and robbery .
China is the biggest buyer of Sudan 's oil .
India and Saudi Arabia have said they intend to form an energy partnership to increase the amount of crude oil supplied to India .
The joint declaration was announced Friday in New Delhi at the end of Saudi King Abdullah 's four-day visit to India .
The agreement , signed by the king and India 's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , endorses greater exports of Saudi crude oil to India along with Saudi investments in refining and distribution in India .
The two countries said they would establish a joint venture to produce fertilizer at plants in Saudi Arabia .
India imports 70 percent of the oil it consumes .
In the agreement , India and Saudi Arabia also pledged to cooperate in the fight against terrorism .
Palestinian gunmen have surrounded European Union offices in the Gaza Strip threatening violence and demanding an apology after newspapers in Europe reprinted Danish caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed .
Newspapers in several EU countries published the cartoons Wednesday in a show of solidarity for press freedom .
One cartoon shows the Prophet Mohammed wearing a turban shaped like a bomb .
The militants have threatened to target Danish , French , and Norwegian nationals in the Palestinian territories .
The French-Egyptian owner of the French newspaper France Soir has fired an editor for reprinting the cartoons .
A spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Without Borders is calling on both sides to calm down .
Meanwhile , a Jordanian weekly newspaper has published three of the 12 cartoons to acquaint the Muslim public with the caricatures .
Publication of the cartoons by a Danish newspaper in September prompted Muslim protests .
Taleban militants have resumed talks with South Korean officials trying to negotiate the release of 19 South Korean aid workers held in Afghanistan for more than a month .
A Red Cross official , Frank Rauchenstein , says negotiations got underway Thursday at the office of the Afghan Red Crescent in Ghazni City .
Monday , the Taleban released two of the hostages in what was described as a " goodwill gesture . "
Taleban militants abducted 23 South Korean Christian aid workers on July 19 while they traveled through Ghazni province on a humanitarian mission .
Two male hostages were executed late last month after the Afghan government failed to meet Taleban demands to release militant prisoners .
Zimbabwe 's main opposition party has cut ties with the South African government following its endorsement of parliamentary elections won by President Robert Mugabe 's ruling party .
Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC ) spokesman Paul Nyathi says there is no point in engaging with the South African government anymore .
Mr. Nyathi criticized the South African government for declaring what the opposition says were deeply-flawed March elections as free and fair .
He said South Africa was there , but did not bother to observe the elections properly .
South Africa has led mediation efforts on Zimbabwe 's political crisis , and has been slammed repeatedly by the opposition for its approach of so-called " quiet diplomacy " towards the Mugabe government .
The MDC has said the poll was rigged and it plans to contest the outcome of 13 seats in court .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has arrived in Spain Sunday for a two day-visit aimed at strengthening bilateral ties .
His schedule includes talks with King Juan Carlos and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero .
In part , Spain hopes to increase exports to reduce its trade inbalance with China .
Mr. Hu arrived in Madrid from Germany where he conferred with outgoing Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder , Chancellor-designate Angela Merkel , and other senior officials .
The two sides are said to have signed a number of business agreements , and pledged to continue close ties between Berlin and Beijing .
Spain is the last leg of Mr. Hu 's European tour that began last Tuesday in Britain .
Demonstrators protesting Chinese policies on human rights and Tibet have followed Mr. Hu throughout his trip .
Afghan authorities say they have detained a police chief in connection with last year 's killing of five aid workers from the Doctors Without Borders group .
An Afghan interior ministry spokesman said the police chief of Qadis district of Badghis province is a suspect and has been detained for questioning .
Three foreign and two Afghan aid workers were killed when their vehicle was hit by grenades in an apparently targeted attack in Badghis June 2 last year .
A month later , the Nobel Prize-winning medical relief agency pulled out of Afghanistan after 24 years , citing poor security and the government 's failure to launch a " credible " investigation into the killings .
The U.S military says four American soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb blast north of Baghdad .
A statement says the incident occurred Thursday in Samarra , some 95 kilometers north of the Iraqi capital .
In Baghdad Wednesday , three car bombs exploded in close succession , killing at least 43 people .
Meanwhile , Iraqi political leaders are continuing negotiations on a draft constitution .
Mahmud Othman , a Kurdish member of the committee drafting the document , tells the French News agency that Wednesday 's deadly bombings have increased global pressure on politicians to wrap up the constitution by the new deadline of August 22 .
He said " it has now become a question of who is stronger - the politicians or the insurgents . "
Insurgents have knocked out electrical power to much of Baghdad on the eve of Iraq 's nationwide constitutional referendum .
After dark Friday , saboteurs hit powerlines north of Baghdad .
Electrical Ministry officials say they do not know how long it will take to restore power to the capital .
The streets of Baghdad were mostly quiet Friday due to security measures put in place to prevent violence from interfering with election preparations .
At Friday prayers , clerics discussed the proposed constitution .
Some told worshippers to vote for its adoption , while others urged its rejection .
Authorities reported gunshots fired at two polling stations .
Insurgents also bombed and set fire to offices belonging to the largest Sunni Arab political party , the Iraqi Islamic Party , in apparent retaliation for its decision to support the constitution .
Police in 12 European countries and the United States have searched 150 homes in a coordinated crackdown on Internet child pornography .
The European Union 's police agency , Europol , announced the action Wednesday , saying arrests have been made , but did not report how many .
Europol officials said Dutch police initiated the operation , code named " Baleno , " by supplying information to 76 countries around the world .
The operation started last year , when investigators discovered a sophisticated network distributing child pornography .
The network used technology to hide its members ' identities .
Europol coordinated the operation in Europe , while the FBI handled the probe in the United States .
World oil prices have hit a record high in Asian trading .
Crude oil for future delivery went as high as $ 57.79 a barrel .
Oil had closed at $ 57.25 a barrel Friday in New York after hitting a high of $ 57.70 .
The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , Sheikh Ahmad Fahad al-Ahmad al-Sabah , says oil ministers this week will discuss the possibility of pumping more oil in an effort to bring prices down .
OPEC announced an increase in production quotas in mid-March , but that move failed to bring a significant drop on oil markets .
A recent report by analysts at Goldman-Sachs predicted that oil might eventually cost as much as $ 105 a barrel .
Other analysts think $ 60 is a more likely top price .
Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops say they have killed several suspected Taliban militants during an operation in southern Helmand province .
Coalition officials said in a statement released Tuesday that the latest clash occurred as troops searched a compound for militants associated with the Taliban , as well as others helping foreign fighters .
During the search a gun battle erupted in which several suspected militants died .
A coalition statement said no civilians were killed or injured in the fighting .
The statement adds that a cache of weapons including rifles , rockets and explosives was found and destroyed following following the battle .
Helmand province has been badly affected by the Taliban insurgency .
The area is one of the world 's top opium growing regions .
An Iranian news report quotes a top nuclear official as saying Tehran will " seriously and enthusiastically " study a Russian proposal to enrich uranium from Iran on Russian soil .
The comments by Javad Vaeedi , the deputy head of Iran 's National Security Council , were reported Wednesday by the Iranian Student News Agency .
The United States and the European Union have voiced grave concerns that without oversight , Tehran will process uranium to the highly enriched level needed to make an atomic bomb .
Tehran says it is seeking a lower grade of enriched uranium to fuel a nuclear power plant .
Wednesday 's comments by the Iranian official are the most positive public statements from Tehran since Moscow offered earlier this year to supply enriched uranium for Iran 's Bushehr reactor .
The comments are also the first public acknowledgment that Tehran has received the Russian offer .
The leaders of Australia and Japan have offered their full support to Britain in the aftermath of the deadly attacks on London 's transit system .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said Thursday on national radio it is important his country stands " shoulder to shoulder " with its British allies at a time like this .
Mr. Howard expressed his " horror and disgust " at the attacks and said they would not alter the determination of free countries to " do the right thing . "
At the Group of Eight summit in Scotland , Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said he is outraged by the London attacks .
He noted terrorist acts must not be forgivable .
Sarin gas attacks on the Tokyo subway system in 1995 killed 12 people and injured thousands .
Lebanese security officials say a car bomb explosion has killed a senior member of the militant Palestinian group Islamic Jihad in Sidon , Friday .
The officials say the militant 's brother also died in the blast near the central square of the southern coastal city .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombing .
Islamic Jihad blamed Israel for the attack on the militant leader Mahmoud Majzoub , but Israeli officials denied any knowledge of the bombing .
Pope Benedict XVI is expected to meet with diplomats from Muslim countries and leaders of Italy 's Islamic community Monday to explain comments about Islam that he says were misunderstood .
The head of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue , Cardinal Paul Poupard , will also attend the meeting at Castel Gandolfo , the Pope 's summer residence outside Rome .
Vatican officials hope the meeting will reopen dialogue between the Roman Catholic Church and the Islamic world .
Earlier this month , Pope Benedict quoted a 14th-century Byzantine emperor who had criticized some of the teachings of the prophet Muhammad .
The pope has said those are not his own views .
On Sunday , the pope praised an Italian nun killed by gunmen last week in Somalia .
It has been theorized that Muslim anger over the pope 's remarks was to blame for the killing .
Thousands of Muslims worldwide have demonstrated to protest the pope 's remarks .
The United Nations Development Program has named Spanish actor Antonio Banderas as a Goodwill Ambassador in the fight against poverty .
The U.N. said Wednesday Banderas will work to enact the U.N. Millennium Development Goals that were established to fight hunger , disease , illiteracy , environmental degradation and discrimination against women .
Banderas issued a statement saying he will work with the U.N. Development Program to take action on the goals , with a particular focus on Latin America and Africa .
The actor will also work to raise awareness of the $ 710 million Millennium Development Goal Achievement Fund , which supports national and local governments as well as citizen organizations in their efforts to tackle poverty and inequality .
Antonio Banderas was born in Spain and is an accomplished actor , writer , singer and producer .
Poland 's defense minister has announced plans to cut his country 's forces in Iraq by almost one third next year .
Minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski said the number of Polish troops remaining in Iraq in mid-February will stand at 1,700 .
He said another 700 will remain in Poland on standby in case of emergency .
The withdrawal is to follow Iraq 's parliamentary elections .
Poland has about 2,400 soldiers in Iraq .
It is the third largest contributor of troops to the international stabilization forces in that country , after the United States and Britain .
Poland commands a 6,500-strong international force south of Baghdad .
Bolivians demanding the nationalization of the country 's energy industry have taken over several oil fields belonging to a Spanish oil company .
Officials say protesters occupied the fields near the eastern city of Santa Cruz Wednesday .
The latest protest action comes one day before legislators are scheduled to vote on whether to accept President Carlos Mesa 's resignation .
President Mesa submitted his resignation Monday , saying he could no longer lead the poor Andean nation in the face of continuing large demonstrations over his government 's policies .
Mr. Mesa tried to resign earlier this year , but lawmakers rejected his offer .
Thursday 's special legislative session is scheduled to take place in the city of Sucre , south of the capital La Paz .
The Senate president would be next in line to replace Mr. Mesa .
Crude oil prices rose Wednesday after a government report showed U.S. supplies of crude oil , gasoline , and other oil products declined last week .
The Energy Department report said crude oil inventories dropped more than one million barrels , a decline of about one-third of a percent .
Stocks of gasoline declined around 1.5 percent , which is more than experts had predicted .
The price of a barrel of crude oil for future delivery rose 69 cents to $ 77 a barrel in New York .
London prices also rose .
China has urged Burma to take effective measures to safeguard the rights of Chinese citizens in Burma .
The Chinese foreign ministry said on its Web site Saturday that consular affairs department chief Wei Wei conveyed Beijing 's concerns at a meeting with an official from Burma 's embassy .
The release said Wei met on September 21 with Kyi Kyi Sein , minister counselor of the Burma Embassy .
Wei urged Burma to investigate reports that military conflicts in northern Burma in August had harmed the rights and interests of Chinese citizens living there .
Tens of thousands of refugees fled across the border into China to escape fighting between the Burmese army and ethnic rebels in Kokang , a mainly ethnic Chinese region of Burma 's Shan state .
Former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri , the billionaire tycoon who oversaw the post-civil war reconstruction of Beirut , died Monday in a Beirut car bombing .
He was 60 .
Mr. Hariri became prime minister in 1992 as optimism swept Lebanon two years after the end of its 15-year civil war .
He began massive rebuilding projects , while backing Syrian efforts to consolidate political control in Lebanon .
While dogged by accusations of corruption , Mr. Hariri was also widely known for his philanthropy .
He is said to have paid the education bills of 30,000 Lebanese students , and donated tens of millions of dollars of his own money to Lebanese charities .
He quit the government in 1998 , but returned in 2000 and served as prime minister until quitting again in late 2004 , after Lebanon 's pro-Syrian parliament voted to extend the term of pro-Syrian president and political rival Emile Lahoud .
German military authorities have suspended two soldiers in connection with a series of disturbing photos showing servicemen posing with human skulls in Afghanistan .
Defense Minister Josef Jung announced the suspensions Friday in Berlin .
The scandal broke Wednesday when the newspaper Bild printed several pictures reportedly taken in 2003 , including one of a German soldier posing with a skull in a sexual manner .
RTL television on Thursday broadcast photographs of one soldier kissing a skull while another soldier displays a skull on the hood of a military vehicle .
The photos aired by RTL were reportedly taken a year later .
The photos have scandalized much of Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel calls the pictures disgusting and unforgivable .
The defense minister says the army has identified at least six of the soldiers involved in the photos , and has promised to punish them .
Iranian state media say an Iranian rocket launched into space earlier this month has sent data back to Earth .
Iran says the rocket that it launched on February 4 is designed to carry the country 's first home-made satellite into orbit later this year .
Washington criticized Iran 's launch and said it will further isolate Tehran in the international community .
Moscow said it does not approve of Iran 's efforts to develop rocket technology .
The technology used to put satellites into orbit can also be used for launching weapons .
Iran says other countries should not worry about its scientific achievements , and says it wants to launch satellites for research and telecommunications .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said Iran will test-launch two more rockets before it sends a satellite into orbit .
Army officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say an air raid has killed more than 40 Rwandan Hutu rebels .
The Thursday strike on the camp where leaders of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda were meeting also wounded several other rebels .
The attack came after the Congolese government gave Rwandan soldiers the go ahead to join forces with its own troops in the east of the country to attack ethnic Hutu militia .
The militia are seen as a root cause of instability in the region .
Some of their leaders are accused of being behind the 1994 genocide in Rwanda .
Meanwhile , a coalition of human rights groups says protecting civilians in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo should be a top priority as Congolese and Rwandan government forces pursue their joint operation .
Japan reportedly is planning to build 12 new facilities in China to dismantle chemical weapons left behind by the Imperial Army at the end of World War II .
Japan 's Yomiuri newspaper said Sunday that the two countries agreed last month to build the facilities near 12 locations including Beijing , Harbin and Nanjing , where abandoned Japanese chemical weapons are stored .
The paper said Japan initially planned to dismantle all the weapons at a major plant in Haerbaling , near the border with North Korea .
But when China raised concerns about the dangers of transporting the weapons over long distances , Tokyo decided to build the smaller facilities spread throughout the country .
The report did not include details about the cost or timetable of the construction .
A U.S. scientist says he is withdrawing from a stem cell research project led by a team of South Korean scientists because of concerns over a possible breach of ethics .
Gerald Schatten of the University of Pittsburgh , in the northern U.S. state of Pennsylvania , has been working for more than a year with the team , which is led by Hwang Woo-Suk .
Mr. Hwang announced last year that his team was the first to clone human embryos and extract embryonic stem cells from them .
Mr. Schatten says he is withdrawing over allegations the South Korean scientists used eggs donated by a female member of the team .
Widely held ethics principles preclude scientists from accepting donations from underlings in order to avoid any suggestions of coercion .
Questions have also been raised as to whether the woman was paid for the eggs .
Mr. Hwang has denied allegations of ethical impropriety .
A FOWLER , taking his bird-lime and his twigs , went out to catch birds .
Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree , he wished to take it , and fitting his twigs to a proper length , watched intently , having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky .
While thus looking upwards , he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just before his feet .
The Viper , turning about , stung him , and falling into a swoon , the man said to himself , " Woe is me ! that while I purposed to hunt another , I am myself fallen unawares into the snares of death . "
Denmark 's foreign ministry is urging Danish nationals to leave Lebanon after protesters , angered over a political cartoon of the prophet Mohammed , burned the Danish consulate .
Riot police used tear gas and water cannons to break up the mob .
Lebanese Interior Minister Hassan al-Sabaa resigned following the unrest .
Protesters burned the Danish and Norwegian embassies in Damascus , Syria Saturday .
Muslims throughout the region are boycotting Danish goods .
Store owners have pulled Danish products from shelves .
The cartoon was first printed in a Danish newspaper and then reprinted in a number of European cities .
Muslims call any depiction of the prophet blasphemous .
Muslim and Arab leaders are calling for calm .
Lebanese leaders say violence is as harmful to Islam as the cartoon .
Four suspected al-Qaida members in Saudi Arabian custody have said on Saudi media they planned to attack oil facilities in the kingdom and other Gulf states .
Saudi police detained the four last year in connection with a failed February 2006 attack on the Abqaiq oil complex .
Security guards foiled the attack .
The four suspects appeared on Saudi television this week .
They are accused of providing logistical support to the bombers .
One of the four , identified as Abdullah al-Muqrin , said the plan to attack oil facilities in Saudi Arabia was to coincide with other al-Qaida attacks on oil facilities in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates .
Al-Muqrin also said he was told al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden would authorize the attacks .
Forecasters say Hurricane Otis is gaining strength as it moves closer to Mexico 's northwestern coast .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the Category One storm has winds of 150 kilometers per hour and is moving toward the Baja California Peninsula .
The storm is currently projected to hit the central portion of the Baja Peninsula as early as Sunday .
Forecasters warn that a shift in position could result in an earlier landfall on the southern end of the peninsula .
U.S. President Barack Obama has announced creation of a new foreign policy position focusing on global women 's issues .
The president Friday nominated Melanne Verveer to the post of ambassador-at-large for international women 's issues .
She will work at the State Department under Secretary of State Hillary Clinton .
The White House says the new position reflects the importance of global women 's issues to the Obama administration .
Verveer previously worked as chief of staff for Clinton when she was first lady , and also worked as an aide in the White House for former President Bill Clinton .
Verveer is also the co-founder and chair of Vital Voices Global Partnership .
The White House describes the group as an international non-profit that invests in emerging women leaders .
The U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in Iraq 's restive al-Anbar province , as U.S. and Iraqi forces continued their offensive to hunt down insurgents in western Iraq .
The military says the soldier was killed late Friday during security operations in Anbar .
No other details were given .
U.S. Marines swept through the Iraqi town of Haditha in Anbar province early Saturday .
A Reuters report says soldiers destroyed a cache of weapons and briefly exchanged fire with guerrillas .
Insurgents also continued assaults on Iraq 's strategic infrastructure , blowing up a section of an oil pipeline in the oil-rich northern region of Kirkuk late Friday .
A top North Korean official says his country has a stockpile of nuclear weapons and is making more .
Vice Foreign Minister Kim Gye Gwan told U.S.-based ABC News Wednesday that North Korea has enough nuclear bombs to defend against a U.S. attack .
But he added Pyongyang has no intention of attacking the United States .
When asked if North Korea has a missile capable of hitting the United States , Mr. Kim would not answer , saying one can not speculate about that because the nuclear program is not aimed at the United States .
South Korean president Roh Moo-hyun is on his way to Washington for talks Friday with President Bush .
The two men are expected to discuss recent signs North Korea may be willing to return to six-nation talks on ending its nuclear weapons program .
Coalition forces in Iraq have detained two suspected weapons smugglers the U.S. military says may have ties to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Qods force .
The military issued a statement saying the suspects and weapons were seized during a raid on a rural farm compound in eastern Iraq .
The military statement says the suspects may be linked to a network that has been smuggling Explosively Formed Projectiles ( EFPs ) and other weapons , personnel and money from Iran into Iraq .
Earlier Sunday Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki urged parliament to cancel or shorten its August summer break to pass laws he considers crucial to Iraq 's stability .
Parliament was scheduled to adjourn for all of August , but American officials have been pressing Mr. Maliki and parliament to pass laws aimed at curbing sectarian violence and healing divisions between majority Shi'ite Arabs , minority Sunni Arabs and Kurds .
Mexican authorities say two police officers and a medical technician are dead after a car rammed two police vehicles in what authorities say was retaliation for the arrest of a drug cartel leader .
Police said the attack Thursday in the violent border town of Ciudad Juarez was a direct response to the arrest earlier in the day of Jesus Acosta Guerrero , a senior gang member linked to the Juarez cartel .
Authorities say the attack caused an explosion , leaving the vehicles badly damaged .
The Associated Press news agency reports the car may have been packed with explosives or inflammable material .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon has deployed thousands of soldiers nationwide to fight drug gangs since taking office in 2006 .
At least 23,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence since the president began cracking down on the cartels .
The United States says six world powers have made progress on a new U.N. sanctions resolution aimed at curbing Iran 's nuclear program and could begin drafting the text next week .
Representatives of Germany and the five permanent U.N. Security Council members , the United States , Britain , France , Russia and China , discussed the resolution in a conference call Thursday .
A U.S. State Department spokeswoman , Joanne Moore , said the representatives agreed to confer again by phone on Saturday .
Iran ignored a U.N. Security Council deadline last week to suspend uranium enrichment or face new U.N. sanctions , on top of those imposed in December .
The United States and its Western allies suspect Iran is working to develop nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
A roadside bomb has ripped through a U.S. military vehicle in Afghanistan , killing one soldier and wounding two others in the northeastern province of Kunar .
A U.S. military spokesman says the troops were driving an armored vehicle southwest of the provincial capital of Asadabad .
Kunar is a mountainous province on the border with Pakistan and is considered a hideout for militants .
Another American soldier was killed and four were injured in southern Afghanistan when their armored vehicle rolled over near Kandahar city .
A U.S. military statement says enemy activities were not a factor in the accident .
Kandahar is a stronghold of Afghanistan 's former Taleban rulers .
Diplomats at the United Nations Nuclear Agency say Iran has started small-scale uranium enrichment , a process that produces fuel that can be used in nuclear weapons and reactors .
The International Atomic Energy Agency officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , say uranium gas has been fed into some machines .
Iran had warned it would resume large-scale enrichment activities after the IAEA referred it to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions over its nuclear program .
Iran also further postponed talks set for this week with Russia about a proposal to process uranium on Russian soil for use in Iran 's nuclear plants .
Russia has been pushing for the plan as a way to ease international concerns that Iran might be aiming to produce weapons-grade uranium .
Iran says its nuclear program is only intended to generate electricity .
Bolivian President Evo Morales ended his five-day hunger strike Tuesday , after Congress passed a new electoral law making it possible for him to seek re-election in December .
The new law approved early Tuesday calls for general elections to be held on December 6 and gives more seats in Congress to minority indigenous groups .
Mr. Morales is the country 's first indigenous president .
President Morales started the hunger strike Thursday after accusing the opposition-controlled Senate of holding up passage of the measure .
Bolivians recently approved a new constitution that allows President Morales to seek a second , five-year term in December elections .
Nigerian authorities say gunmen have kidnapped a Lebanese man in the country 's volatile southern region .
Military officials say the man was seized along with his car in the city of Warri Tuesday .
The man works for a construction company , Niger Cat .
On Saturday , gunmen kidnapped two Indian petrochemical workers in another southern town , Port Harcourt .
In all , about 100 foreigners have been kidnapped in Nigeria 's oil-rich Niger Delta region this year .
Most have been released unharmed , after their employers paid ransom .
Several hostages also have been injured or killed during rescue attempts by the Nigerian military .
Many of the kidnappings are carried out by criminal gangs , while others are the work of militants who want more of the region 's oil wealth directed to impoverished locals .
Zimbabwe 's ruling ZANU-PF party has rejected the campaign of Information Minister Jonathan Moyo in this year 's parliamentary elections .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports Monday that Mr. Moyo 's name is not included in a new list of candidates in upcoming primary votes .
It says Mr. Moyo was planning to compete in the Tsholotsho district that has been reserved for female candidates .
President Robert Mugabe has said he will only choose elected lawmakers for his cabinet after the elections .
The Herald reports the primary list also does not include Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa , former Harare mayor Tony Gara , and war veterans leader Joseph Chinotimba .
Also missing is current lawmaker Philip Chiyangwa , who was jailed last month on charges of spying .
The U.S. Undersecretary for Public Diplomacy is set to lead a delegation of business executives to Central America next week .
A statement issued Wednesday by the State Department says Karen Hughes will be accompanied by chief executives of major U.S companies such as PepsiCo and JPMorgan Private Bank .
The delegation will visit Guatemala , Honduras and El Salvador , where a series of natural disasters damaged economies in the region .
The trip aims to encourage private sector assistance for reconstruction efforts in the area .
President Bush has asked the business leaders to see U.S. assistance efforts already underway .
The trip will last December 4 to December 6 .
Iraqi police say a car bomb in northern Baghdad has killed 12 people .
At least 22 others were wounded in Sunday 's attack , which took place near a passport office in the capital 's northern Adhamiya district .
In other violence in Iraq 's capital , nine people , including six civilians , were wounded when a roadside bomb exploded near a police patrol .
The bombings came hours before Iraq 's parliament is scheduled to hold a special session to try to resolve a dispute about power-sharing proposals for the northern region of Kirkuk .
The Bush administration will ask Congress for more than $ 240 billion to cover the cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for the next two fiscal years .
Mr. Bush is seeking more than $ 90 billion for the current fiscal year , to go along with the $ 70 billion already approved by lawmakers .
He will also ask for more than $ 140 billion to cover war costs for fiscal year 2008 , which begins October 1 .
The money is separate from the $ 481 billion the president will request for the military 's regular 2008 budget .
The administration has obtained funding for the Iraq and Afghanistan operations through emergency spending bills .
Lawmakers have criticized the practice , saying the emergency bills are not subject to the same scrutiny as regular spending bills .
Iran is calling an international resolution on its nuclear program politically motivated and illegal , but does not rule out future negotiations with the West .
Speaking Sunday in Tehran , Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki called the International Atomic Energy Agency resolution a scenario determined by the United States in advance .
The IAEA resolution passed Saturday in Vienna accuses Tehran of violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty by failing to comply with international nuclear safeguard agreements .
The resolution leaves open the possibility of referring Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
Washington accuses Tehran of using its ongoing nuclear program as a cover for efforts to develop an atomic weapon .
Tehran says its program is aimed at developing electricity .
The Ethiopian government has charged 55 opposition members with trying to launch an armed rebellion .
The state-run Ethiopian News Agency reports the defendants were charged this week with " instigating armed violence " against the government following the 1997 national elections .
All of the defendants are said to be associated with the opposition Coalition for Unity and Democracy .
The report says the proceedings have been adjourned until Thursday .
More than 80 other opposition figures are already on trial in Ethiopia , accused of treason and attempting to commit genocide .
Those suspects were charged in the wake of unrest that followed the disputed 2005 elections .
The trial has drawn harsh criticism from donors and human rights groups who say the government is trying to stifle dissent .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 351-7 declared in its second innings , leaving India a massive target of nearly 500 runs after the third day of their first test in Melbourne .
Australian batsmen Michael Clarke and Phil Jaques led the home side with Clarke scoring 73 runs and Jaques adding another 51 .
Brad Hogg scored 34 runs and Brett Lee added another 12 for Australia .
Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh took three for 101 while Anil Kumble was two for 102 .
India was 6 without loss after surviving eight overs before stumps .
The Indians have their work cut out for them - they need 493 runs in 10 wickets .
The highest successful run-chase at Melbourne was England 's 332 runs against Australia in the 1928 - 1929 Ashes series .
Only three teams have ever achieved what India must to win the match .
Iraqi officials say gunmen have killed a member of the secular coalition led by former Iraqi prime minister Ayad Allawi .
Officials say Faras al-Jabouri was shot Saturday after gunmen raided his home near the northern city of Mosul .
Jabouri did not win a seat in the March 7 parliamentary elections in which Mr. Allawi 's Iraqiya list received the most votes .
His death comes two weeks after another member of Mr. Allawi 's bloc was killed .
Gunmen shot Bashar Hamid al-Aqidi May 24 in an ambush outside his home in Mosul .
Iraq 's Supreme Court ratified the election results last week .
None of the political groups won the 163 seats needed to form a majority .
Mr. Allawi 's coalition had the most seats with 91 , just two more than the mainly Shi'ite group led by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Journalists in Kenya and abroad are urging Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki to reject legislation that could require reporters to divulge their news sources .
The Kenyan Editors Guild said Thursday that a proposed " Media Bill " passed by parliament last month was crafted in part to settle old scores .
They petitioned Mr. Kibaki to reject the measure .
The media advocacy group Reporters Without Borders is also urging Mr. Kibaki to reject the bill .
The Paris-based group said in a letter that the measure would have " disastrous consequences " for Kenyan democracy , and would undermine a fundamental principle of journalism .
The bill was amended at the last minute to give the government power to demand the names of unnamed news sources in reports that lead to legal disputes .
A human rights group has called on Asian leaders to increase pressure on Burma to hasten democratic reforms and stop human rights abuses .
The Alternative ASEAN Network for Burma said officials from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations meeting this week should consider new options in dealing with Burma .
It said leaders should consider supporting a possible resolution on Burma by the United Nations Security Council .
The group also urged ASEAN leaders to acknowledge the many security problems caused by Burma 's military regime .
The rights group accuses Burma 's government of involvement in illegal drug trafficking and human rights abuses , especially against some ethnic groups in Burma .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says he suspects Britain may have played a role in twin bomb attacks that killed five people and injured 100 others in southwestern Iran .
Iran 's Student News Agency quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad as saying Iranian officials have found what he called British " footprints " in past attacks .
He added the presence of British troops in southern Iraq and near Iran 's border is a factor behind insecurity in both countries .
Britain 's embassy in Tehran has rejected the allegations and condemned Saturday 's attack near a shopping center in Khuzestan province .
In a statement , it said any link between the British government and terrorist attacks in the area is without foundation .
Earlier this month , British officials accused Iran and Lebanese militants of supplying explosives technology to insurgents in Iraq .
Pakistani authorities say police in the southern port city of Karachi have arrested two al-Qaida militants for their involvement in a suicide attack earlier this year that killed a U.S. diplomat .
The police chief for the Sindh province Jehangir Mirza says the suspects were captured during an early morning Monday raid .
The blast near the U.S. consulate in Karachi on March 2 killed the U.S. diplomat David Foy , three Pakistanis and the attacker who rammed his explosive-laden car into a car carrying the diplomat .
More than 50 people were wounded in the attack , including a Moroccan child .
Last week , Pakistani intelligence officials arrested six people in connection with the attack and identified the suicide bomber .
Authorities said the six were associated with the suicide attacker , and that they were linked to al-Qaida , as well as banned domestic militant groups .
NATO has announced it will deploy 2,000 more troops to Afghanistan ahead of parliamentary elections there in September .
A spokeswoman for the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Afghanistan says the troops are to be deployed in July , about six weeks before the scheduled polling .
The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force now has more than 8,000 troops in Afghanistan .
Wednesday 's announcement came as Afghan President Hamid Karzai said he believes attacks will increase and terrorism will rise in the run-up to the election .
The September vote will be the first parliamentary elections since the Taleban regime was toppled in 2001 .
OPEC 's most influential member says the oil cartel should raise production quotas at Wednesday 's meeting in Iran .
Saudi Arabia 's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi says the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should boost output by 500,000 barrels a day from the current self-imposed limit of 27 million barrels .
Supply concerns were one factor behind last week 's surge that pushed oil prices to within pennies of the all-time record in New York trading .
The price of crude oil for April delivery declined after the Saudi announcement .
But oil prices later rose 52 cents to close at $ 54.95 a barrel in New York on Monday .
OPEC produces about 40 percent of the world 's oil and energy ministers from its 11 members are gathering to discuss oil supplies and prices .
An earthquake in southeastern Turkey has injured at least seven people and triggered an avalanche .
Istanbul 's Kandili observatory says a 5.7 magnitude earthquake struck early Saturday in rural Bingol province .
It was centered in the town of Karliova .
Turkey 's Anatolianews agency says the quake apparently triggered an avalanche in neighboring Erzurum province , and is blocking a highway leading to the village of Cat .
At least 20 homes in the area have been damaged .
Provincial officials say recent heavy snowfall is hampering efforts to reach small villages .
Earthquakes are common in Turkey .
In 2003 , a magnitude 6.4 quake struck the same region , killing 177 people .
With the U.S. economy in recession , some Americans are finding ways to be thrifty this holiday season : spending time and money on handmade gifts .
Making , rather than buying , holiday gifts is growing in popularity .
Chinese authorities have suspended poultry exports from the western province of Xinjiang to Hong Kong because of an outbreak of bird flu .
China notified Hong Kong Wednesday that it has culled more than 13,000 geese at a farm in Xinjiang .
A government statement says hundreds of dead geese were found on the farm and that tests showed they had died from the H5N1 avian flu strain , which can be lethal to humans .
It said officials in Xinjiang have carried out vaccinations on birds at all nearby poultry farms .
Hong Kong says it has not imported any live birds or poultry meat from Xinjiang and the suspension of exports is merely a precaution .
Ecuador 's state-run oil company , Petroecuador , has restored some operations that had been interrupted by six days of protests .
Company officials say production totaled around 33,000 barrels of crude oil per day on Saturday .
However , the rate was still far from the normal output of more than 200,000 barrels .
Army troops and police have been helping to restore order and oil production since the government declared a state of emergency in the Sucumbios and Orellana provinces .
Protesters there have been demanding new contract negotiations with foreign oil firms .
They also have called for increased spending on infrastructure and social programs .
The demonstrations forced Petroecuador to suspend production and the government to seek a temporary loan of oil from Venezuela to keep up exports .
Most of Ecuador 's oil exports go to the United States .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas says Israeli police briefly detained a minister in the new Hamas-led Palestinian government Thursday .
Officials say Khaled Abu Arafa and his bodyguard were arrested while traveling to the Jerusalem suburb of Izzariya to take control of a political office that had been operated by the previous Fatah administration .
The two were released several hours later .
Israel considers Hamas a terrorist organization and describes Jerusalem as its eternal capital .
As such , Israeli officials have refused to let the militant group conduct any political activity in the city .
It was not immediately clear whether Israel will permit the office to operate while Hamas controls the Palestinian government .
A top Palestinian official has announced a series of new measures to increase public safety and end factional strife in the Gaza Strip .
Rashid Abu Shbak , a senior security official said Saturday the measures include the disbanding of the Department of Protection and Security , a group Gazans have nicknamed " death squad . "
The 70-member squad has faced accusations of corruption and intimidating the public .
Mr. Shbak also announced that the dominant Fatah faction will work to merge its several militant groups in order to end intra-Palestinian violence and factional infighting .
Palestinian territories have seen an upsurge in factional strife in the months preceding the death of longtime Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , who died on November 11 .
Separately , a lecturer at Gaza City 's al-Azhar university was killed when a bomb exploded at his university office .
Shortly after achieving independence from Britain in the early 1960s , Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form the nation of Tanzania in 1964 .
One-party rule ended in 1995 with the first democratic elections held in the country since the 1970s .
Zanzibar 's semi-autonomous status and popular opposition have led to two contentious elections since 1995 , which the ruling party won despite international observers ' claims of voting irregularities .
The formation of a government of national unity between Zanzibar 's two leading parties succeeded in minimizing electoral tension in 2010
Former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad says Australia should be kept out of a new East Asian regional grouping , saying Australians are Europeans , not Asians .
Asked by reporters Monday if Australia has anything to offer to Asia , Mr. Mahathir replied , " Nothing . "
Leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations who met in Laos last week approved Mr. Mahathir 's plan to launch an East Asian regional summit next year .
The summit would probably include China , Japan , South Korea , New Zealand and Australia , in addition to ASEAN members .
However , Mr. Mahathir has objected to Australia 's participation because Canberra has refused to sign a non-aggression treaty with ASEAN .
Australia says such a pact could prevent criticism of the human rights records of countries such as Burma .
Italian defender Marco Materazzi has appeared before a disciplinary committee in Zurich at the headquarters of football 's world governing body , FIFA .
FIFA wants to find out what he did to provoke French midfielder Zinedine Zidane to head-butt him during Italy 's World Cup title victory over France last Sunday in Berlin .
A FIFA spokesman refused to provide any details of the meeting .
Materazzi is being investigated based on statements by Zidane , who was sent off for ramming his head into the defender 's chest during extra time in the match .
Zidane said on French television Wednesday night that Materazzi insulted his mother and sister .
Materazzi has admitted insulting Zidane , but denied verbally attacking Zidane 's mother .
Zidane is scheduled to attend a FIFA hearing next Thursday to explain his actions .
A decision is expected later that day .
FIFA has declined to comment on possible punishments for either individuals or teams .
Britain is taking new steps to limit the poaching of developing world doctors , nurses and other health care professionals .
A revised code of practice for the country 's National Health System ( NHS ) closes loopholes that allow British employers to strip developing countries of health care professionals .
Growing health care systems in Britain and other industrialized countries actively recruit health care professionals from developing countries .
That " brain drain " puts strain on developing-world health systems facing their own health care crises .
Britain 's new code of practice forbids employers working with the NHS from recruiting from developing countries unless there is an agreement with that country 's government .
British Health Minister John Hutton said in a statement that the NHS is expanding , but wo n't do so at the expense of other countries .
Tonga has a small , open , South Pacific island economy .
It has a narrow export base in agricultural goods .
Squash , vanilla beans , and yams are the main crops .
Agricultural exports , including fish , make up two-thirds of total exports .
The country must import a high proportion of its food , mainly from New Zealand .
The country remains dependent on external aid and remittances from Tongan communities overseas to offset its trade deficit .
Tourism is the second-largest source of hard currency earnings following remittances .
Tonga had 39,000 visitors in 2006 .
The government is emphasizing the development of the private sector , especially the encouragement of investment , and is committing increased funds for health and education .
Tonga has a reasonably sound basic infrastructure and well developed social services .
High unemployment among the young , a continuing upturn in inflation , pressures for democratic reform , and rising civil service expenditures are major issues facing the government .
Palestinian officials say ailing Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has lost consciousness several times while in the intensive care unit of a French military hospital .
The officials say Mr. Arafat has drifted in and out of consciousness since Wednesday .
There are conflicting reports about his present condition and it is not clear whether he is in a coma .
Doctors at the Paris hospital are expected to speak to reporters later Thursday about Mr. Arafat 's condition .
The Palestinian officials provided no more details .
Mr. Arafat has been receiving emergency medical treatment at the hospital since late last week .
He was airlifted to France after being ill for about two weeks .
The exact nature of his illness is still not clear , but officials say he was experiencing intense stomach pains , diarrhea and vomiting .
Amnesty International says Zimbabwe 's upcoming parliamentary elections will not be free and fair -- because the government of Zimbabwe continues to use threats and intimidation against opposition supporters .
Samkelo Mokhine is the chairman for Amnesty International in Johannesburg , South Africa .
He told English to Africa reporter William Eagle that his group is offering several suggestions to improve the conduct of the elections .
One is to train monitors how to look for human rights violations , such as withholding access to food .
Another is to watch for attacks on all parties before , during and after the polls .
Amnesty says any violations should then be publicly denounced and reported to authorities .
The group says monitors should also have access to all sectors of the population – since many violations occur far away from polling stations .
Iran is facing calls to hand over sensitive nuclear documents for analysis , one day after it escaped immediate referral to the United Nations Security Council for its nuclear activities .
At a meeting Friday in Vienna of the International Atomic Energy Agency 's 35-member board , Britain called for Iran to allow the five main nuclear powers to examine what some experts say are designs for making the explosive core of a nuclear warhead .
Iran insists it did not ask for the designs but was given them by Pakistan 's nuclear black market network run by disgraced scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan .
The call for examination comes as a report circulating in Vienna says Iran 's top nuclear officials met late last month to discuss resuming their enrichment program .
In August , Iran restarted uranium conversion - a precursor to enrichment .
That move prompted Europe to break off nuclear talks with Tehran .
Farmer in Ivory Coast 's Duekoue cocoa plantation Unidentified attackers have killed at least 41 villagers in Ivory Coast 's western cocoa region .
Army spokesman Jules Yao Yao says 64 others were wounded in the attack early Wednesday outside the town of Duekoue .
He says the victims were shot , stabbed or burned to death .
Witnesses say they were all members of the ethnic Guere tribe .
It is not clear what sparked the attack .
However , clashes between indigenous tribes and migrant farm workers are common in the region .
Tensions between the groups have been exacerbated by Ivory Coast 's civil war , which began in 2002 .
The United Nations peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast says it has sent patrols to the region to investigate .
Philippine President Gloria Arroyo has approved legislation abolishing the death penalty ahead of a planned trip to the Vatican .
The law Ms. Arroyo signed Saturday automatically commutes the sentences of about 1,200 death row convicts in the Philippines to life imprisonment .
Congress restored the death penalty in the mid-1990s for serious crimes such as murder .
Seven people have been executed since then .
Ms. Arroyo is to leave for the Vatican and Spain Sunday .
She had been scheduled to leave Saturday , but the trip was rescheduled so she could receive two days of hospital treatment for a stomach virus .
The United States is considering boosting the number of troops it has in Iraq ahead of elections there set for Jan. 27 .
The deputy commander of the U.S. Central Command , Lt.-Gen. Lance Smith , told Friday , the number of additional troops would depend on the security situation following the assault on Fallujah , but would " probably be an additional brigade 's worth of forces " -- up to several thousand soldiers .
Gen. Smith says the Pentagon is primarily considering an extension of the tours of duty of soldiers already in Iraq , because experienced troops are needed to cope with an expected increase in violence .
The United States now has about 138,000 troops in Iraq .
World oil prices fell $ 2 a barrel on Friday , closing below $ 50 dollars a barrel for the first time since mid-February .
Crude oil for June delivery was selling at $ 49.50 a barrel at the close of New York trading .
The decline follows reports that crude oil supplies are growing and economic growth is slowing in the key U.S. market .
Prices spiked earlier when investors thought supplies could not keep up with robust demand .
Fifty people representing 26 countries took the Oath of Allegiance this week ( Thursday ) and became U.S. citizens in a special ceremony at the Newseum in Washington , D.C.
The ceremony was in held in honor of America 's July 4 Independence Day holiday .
VOA 's Ana Ward spoke to some of the participants about the significance of this day and their new life as American citizens .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Authorities in Mauritania say suspects in the recent killing of four French tourists are members of an extremist group linked to al-Qaida .
Justice officials say the three primary suspects were previously arrested on terror-related charges , but all were released .
Prosecutors said they were members of a north African branch of the al-Qaida terror network .
Security officials say the French tourists were picnicking on the side of the highway outside of Aleg when a group of gunmen pulled up and demanded money .
The family refused and the gunmen opened fire .
One man survived the attack , but lost his two children , his brother and a family friend .
Authorities say the suspects may have fled to neighboring Senegal .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy offered his condolences and said he is in touch with his Mauritanian counterpart , Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi .
A lawyer for imprisoned Russian oil magnate Mikhail Khodorkovsky says his client has ended a nearly week-long hunger strike .
Attorney Anton Drel says oil magnate ended his fast after authorities transferred his business partner Platon Lebedev from solitary confinement to a regular cell .
Authorities put Lebedev in isolation after accusing him of insulting prison guards .
In May , authorities sentenced the two former owners of the Yukos oil company to nine years in prison for tax evasion and fraud .
Opposition supporters call their trial politically motivated because of Khodorkovsky 's backing of opposition politicians - charges Kremlin authorities deny .
Jamie Foxx , star of the movie Ray , has won the best actor award and Hilary Swank takes best actress for her role in Million Dollar Baby at the 11th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cate Blanchett won the supporting-actress honor for her portrayal of Katherine Hepburn in The Aviator while Morgan Freeman captured the supporting-actor prize for his work on Million Dollar Baby .
Other winners at Saturday 's ceremony in Los Angeles include Alias star Jennifer Garner , Tony Shaloub from the television comedy Monk , and the late Jerry Orbach who starred in the drama series Law and Order .
The cast award for best movie ensemble went to the quirky , road-trip comedy Sideways .
The Screen Actors Guild winners are among front-runners for the prestigious Oscar Awards to be presented later this month .
Phosphate mining had been the only significant economic activity , but in December 1987 the Australian government closed the mine .
In 1991 , the mine was reopened .
With the support of the government , a $ 34 million casino opened in 1993 , but closed in 1998 .
In 1974 , ethnic differences within the British colony of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert Islands .
The following year , the Ellice Islands became the separate British colony of Tuvalu .
Independence was granted in 1978 .
In 2000 , Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name " . tv " for $ 50 million in royalties over a 12-year period .
China and Russia are discussing plans to set up a hotline so Chinese officials can inform Moscow about a toxic chemical spill that is flowing toward Russian territory .
Authorities in Russia 's far eastern Khabarovsk region Thursday are on alert as heavily contaminated waters from China head downriver .
Chinese authorities have already had to close the water mains in Harbin , one of China 's largest northeastern cities , because of a huge slick of toxic benzene in the Songhua River .
Scientists say even small amounts of the industrial solvent can cause mouth ulcers , and larger quantities can cause leukemia .
Facing criticism , Chinese officials have promised to take measures to monitor pollutants .
The contamination stems from a chemical plant explosion that spilled toxic compounds into the Songhua River on November 13 .
Rising oil prices , global trade imbalances and China 's inflexible currency rates are among issues for discussion Saturday at the start of the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank .
The meetings in Washington begin a day after a gathering of the top economic officials from the world 's seven major industrialized nations - the United States , Japan , Britain , Germany , France , Canada and Italy .
The group issued a statement calling on China to convert its currency to a more flexible exchange rate as a means of addressing Beijing 's trade surplus with much of the world .
The economic officials say the IMF needs to take a more aggressive role in monitoring the currency practices of its member nations .
The statement also spelled out what other nations could do to address global trade imbalances , such as the U.S. reducing its huge budget deficit .
Dozens of African health ministers have declared tuberculosis an emergency in the region , where it kills more than half a million people each year .
Officials announced the decision in Mozambique during a meeting of the World Health Organization 's Regional Committee for Africa , which ends Friday .
Officials say urgent measures are needed as TB cases have quadrupled in 18 African nations since 1990 .
The World Health Organization says most cases of the lung infection can be cured through a six-month drug plan .
Experts say TB is a leading cause of death for people with HIV-AIDS , which affects the immune systems of millions of people across Africa .
A memorial has been unveiled in Washington to honor journalists from around the world who have died or were killed while covering the news .
The memorial is part of a new museum dedicated to journalism called the " Newseum . "
VOA 's Chris Simkins reports .
The World Health Organization says an outbreak of deadly Marburg fever in Angola has claimed 127 lives , the highest number of fatalities from the rare virus .
However , a spokeswoman for the U.N. agency , Fadela Chaib , said Friday the outbreak can be controlled if people suspected of infection are put in isolation and all their contacts are identified .
The WHO also announced that hospital staff in Italy have put nine patients in isolation , suspected of having had contact with a sufferer in Angola .
So far , 132 cases of Marburg have been reported , mainly in Angola 's northwestern Uige province .
Two deaths occurred in the capital , Luanda .
Marburg virus is a severe form of hemorrhagic fever similar to Ebola - and is spread through contact with bodily fluids .
Symptoms include headaches , nausea , vomiting and bloody discharges .
From 2004 to 2007 , the economy grew about 10 % per year , driven largely by an expansion in the garment sector , construction , agriculture , and tourism .
GDP contracted slightly in 2009 as a result of the global economic slowdown , but climbed more than 4 % in 1010 , driven by renewed exports .
With the January 2005 expiration of a WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing , Cambodian textile producers were forced to compete directly with lower-priced countries such as China , India , Vietnam , and Bangladesh .
The garment industry currently employs more than 280,000 people - about 5 % of the work force - and contributes more than 70 % of Cambodia 's exports .
In 2005 , exploitable oil deposits were found beneath Cambodia 's territorial waters , representing a new revenue stream for the government if commercial extraction begins .
Mining also is attracting significant investor interest , particularly in the northern parts of the country .
The government has said opportunities exist for mining bauxite , gold , iron and gems .
In 2006 , a US-Cambodia bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement ( TIFA ) was signed , and several rounds of discussions have been held since 2007 .
Rubber exports increased about 25 % in 2009 due to rising global demand .
The tourism industry has continued to grow rapidly , with foreign arrivals exceeding 2 million per year in 2007 - 08 ; however , economic troubles abroad dampened growth in 2009 .
The global financial crisis is weakening demand for Cambodian exports , and construction is declining due to a shortage of credit .
The long-term development of the economy remains a daunting challenge .
The Cambodian government is working with bilateral and multilateral donors , including the World Bank and IMF , to address the country 's many pressing needs .
The major economic challenge for Cambodia over the next decade will be fashioning an economic environment in which the private sector can create enough jobs to handle Cambodia 's demographic imbalance .
More than 50 % of the population is less than 25 years old .
The population lacks education and productive skills , particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside , which suffers from an almost total lack of basic infrastructure .
President Bush says the United States will drop subsidies to American farmers - if the European Union does the same in Europe .
He told British television Sunday , ending those subsidies would allow African countries to compete better , reducing their need for international aid .
President Bush will attend he Group of Eight Summit this week , which will discuss aid to Africa .
But farm subsidies are very popular in France and Germany , and the U.S. challenge is not thought likely to be accepted .
President Bush also said he will reject any Kyoto-style deal on climate change at the G8 summit in Scotland .
He said the 1997 U.N. Kyoto protocol , which Washington never ratified , would have ruined the American economy with its mandated reductions on carbon emissions .
Mr. Bush favors a focus on clean technologies to counter climate change .
Russia has expressed concern about the violence in eastern Uzbekistan , one day after soldiers fired on protesters , killing dozens of people in the city of Andijon .
In a telephone conversation Saturday , Uzbek President Islam Karimov briefed Russian President Vladimir Putin about the situation .
Both voiced concern about possible threats to stability in Central Asia , and the two leaders agreed to remain in close contact .
Yesterday , Russian authorities blamed Uzbek protesters for the violence .
But the European Union blamed Tashkent , saying the clashes in Andijon were a result of the government 's lack of respect for human rights and failure to ease poverty .
In Washington , U.S. officials urged both the Uzbek government and demonstrators to show restraint and seek a peaceful resolution .
World and European champion Germany remains atop the latest International Football Federation ( FIFA ) women 's soccer rankings , with the Olympic champion U.S. team second .
Norway is third followed by Brazil , France , and Sweden .
North Korea is seventh followed by Denmark , which rose one place to eighth .
China dropped one place to ninth in the world and Italy remained in 10th place .
Outside the top 10 , the big winner was Russia which came through three Women 's World Cup qualifiers without losing a match and is 13th in the world .
There are now 124 teams in the FIFA Women 's World Rankings .
The rankings are published four times a year and the next ranking will be issued December 16 , 2005 .
A manager is a person who thinks that nine women can produce a child in one month .
The jailed former chairman of the Yukos oil company has appealed his fraud conviction to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg .
An attorney for Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave no details of what was in the complaint filed Tuesday , however , Russian news reports say it alleges the former oil tycoon did not get a fair trial .
Reports also say the lawyer also formally complained that prison authorities placed Khodorkovsky in solitary confinement last week for drinking a cup of tea outside a designated eating place .
Khodorkovsky was sentenced to eight years in a Siberian prison camp last year for tax evasion and fraud .
His supporters say the sentence was politically motivated because of Khodorkovsky 's backing of opposition candidates .
Khodorkovsky 's former business partner , Planton Lebedev , has also appealed his conviction to the Strasbourg court .
Laos has confirmed its first human death from bird flu .
The Health Ministry said Thursday that a 15-year-old girl who fell sick last month with the H5N1 virus died Wednesday in a medical facility in neighboring Thailand .
A 42-year-old Lao woman is suspected to have died of bird flu last week , but tests have not confirmed whether she was carrying H5N1 .
Meanwhile , South Korea has confirmed its seventh bird flu outbreak since November .
Officials say the virus has infected poultry at a farm in Chonan , about 90 kilometers south of the capital , Seoul .
South Korea has already conducted a mass culling campaign in an effort to control the spread of the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Bird flu generally only infects poultry , but in some cases , it has sickened humans and has killed 167 people worldwide .
Mexican authorities have found 18 bodies buried near a ranch in the northern state of Chihuahua , which borders the United States .
Investigators Monday said soldiers uncovered the remains recently , but that it was not clear who was buried in the graves .
Word of the discovery came as a woman police chief , Hermila Garcia was ambushed and shot dead on a highway near the town of Meoqui , which is in Chihuahua .
Garcia had served as Meoqui 's police chief since October .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has announced his bid to run in the country 's first-ever multi-candidate elections on September 7 .
Mr. Mubarak , 77 , made the widely anticipated announcement Thursday , pledging sweeping reforms , including replacing emergency laws with new anti-terrorism legislation .
Egypt 's opposition has slammed Mr. Mubarak 's candidacy for a fifth , six-year term , saying he has failed to approve true democratic reform during his 24 years in office .
Many opposition parties plan to boycott the vote , saying registration conditions are so strict that no viable opponent can enter the race .
Mr. Mubarak 's most prominent rival , Ayman Nour , Thursday called on Mr. Mubarak to immediately abolish the emergency laws .
Critics say the laws , in place since 1981 , curb public freedom and allow for detention without charge .
Officials say Pakistani and Iranian energy officials are in talks to begin work on a gas pipeline project that Washington opposes due to Iran 's nuclear program .
Pakistan 's petroleum secretary Ahmed Waqar is scheduled to discuss the issue Tuesday with Iran 's deputy minister for petroleum M.H. Nejad Hosseinian in Islamabad .
The plan to pipe gas from Iran to Pakistan and India had been stalled for about a decade because of India-Pakistan tensions .
However , a thaw in relations in recent years has again brought renewed interest in the pipeline .
Pakistan and India held talks about it in December .
Pakistani media report that the energy ministers will also discuss dates for Iran , Pakistan and India to discuss finalizing an agreement on the pipeline .
The International Organization for Migration says there are now 2.25 million internally displaced people in Iraq .
A statement from the Geneva-based organization Tuesday says the number of displaced almost doubled after the bombing of the Shia Muslim al-Askari shrine in Samara in February of 2006 .
The agency says the majority of displaced are renting substandard shelters or are staying with family and friends .
In both cases , they are straining local resources .
In its latest review , the organization cited some progress in parts of Baghdad and the western province of al-Anbar , where security has improved .
The report said Anbar has slowly stabilized , in large part because of the increased cooperation between a coalition of Sunni tribes formed in 2006 , and Iraqi and U.S. forces .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard has warned that a London-style terror attack could happen in his country .
Mr. Howard said Sunday he will double his spy agency 's staff numbers to combat the threat , in line with recent recommendations from his government .
Mr. Howard says the Australian Security Intelligence Organization will increase to almost 2,000 people ( to 1,860 from 980 ) in the next five years .
The prime minister also recently introduced new counter-terror laws .
Australia has had no major terrorist attacks on its soil , but militant groups have vilified Australia for its support of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
Ninety two Australians were killed in two militant bombings on the Indonesian island of Bali .
The July bombings in London killed 52 people and four suicide bombers .
The government of Kenya says it will take more than $ 380 million to get relief to its citizens suffering from famine .
Special Programs Minister John Munyes said Sunday the government would contribute about 60 percent of the amount , and relief agencies would be counted on to make up the difference .
At least 40 people , mostly children , have died in Kenya from malnutrition and related illnesses since December .
The region 's rainy season failed to produce significant rainfall , causing crops to fail and leaving grazing areas barren .
In addition to the human toll , thousands of livestock have perished .
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization warned Friday that millions of people in East Africa are on the brink of starvation .
In addition to Kenya , the agency said Somalia , Djibouti and Ethiopia are in need of assistance .
Venezuela has received the first three of at least 10 military helicopters purchased from Russia .
Military officials say the three MI-17 helicopters arrived Tuesday in Caracas .
Venezuela bought the helicopters as part of a $ 120 million deal signed last March .
Caracas also agreed last year to buy 100,000 Russian-made Kalashnikov assault rifles .
U.S. officials have criticized the deals , saying they could trigger an arms race , destabilizing the region .
MI-17s can be used in an assault role or as a transport craft .
Venezuelan military officials say the helicopters will be used to patrol the border with neighboring Colombia .
The remaining helicopters bought from Russia are transport helicopters .
The World Health Organization says every year hundreds of millions of people are becoming ill with preventable chronic respiratory diseases .
One of the most common allergies is said to be hay fever , which is caused by contact with ragweed [ Botanical name : artemisiifolia ] .
Scientists now say the increase in ragweed is stimulated by climate change .
VOA 's Melinda Smith has more on this condition .
Gunfire erupted Sunday in Sudan 's North Darfur state during a protest against a failed investment scheme .
The joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping mission in Darfur said gunfire was heard as hundreds of protesters were seen moving toward the center of the state capital , El~Fashar .
Witnesses said police opened fire when protesters marched to the city center to demand their money back .
There is no official word on casualties .
U.N. officials told the Reuters news agency last week Sudanese investors have complained about losing large amounts of money in a " Ponzi scheme , " a pyramid fraud where money is being paid illegallly from one investor to another .
A suicide car bomb has exploded outside a government compound in eastern Afghanistan .
Authorities say the blast in Khost province killed at least two people , including the bomber , and wounded several more , including two NATO soldiers .
Civilians were also wounded , but there are conflicting reports about the casualty figures .
Security officials say the attacker drove his car packed with explosives up to the gate of a district government office in Domanda and detonated after police stopped him .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility .
U.S.-led NATO forces have been battling in eastern Afghanistan for months against groups of Afghan and Pakistani militants , including the Taliban and foreign fighters linked to al-Qaida .
Australia has auctioned off hundreds of cuttings of a rare species of ancient pine tree that was thought to be long extinct .
Scientists believe the Wollemi pine species dates back some 200 million years , to a time when continents in the southern hemisphere formed a supercontinent known as Gondwana .
Scientists had thought the trees were long extinct , with only fossils remaining .
But in 1994 , a park ranger hiking in Australia 's Blue Mountains some 200 kilometers from Sydney stumbled across a stand in an isolated canyon .
Scientists say the species has survived several ice ages and countless natural disasters , and outlived the dinosaurs that once dined on them .
The location of the Wollemi pines remains a secret to protect the trees , but scientists have a project to propagate and sell saplings from cuttings .
The sale of nearly 300 brought in more than $ 1 million in Sunday 's auction .
Former British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind has withdrawn from the race for leader of the Conservative Party and has thrown his support to former Finance Minister Kenneth Clarke .
Mr. Rifkind withdrew Tuesday after only seven of the party 's 196 members of parliament would openly back his candidacy .
The move leaves four candidates in the running to succeed outgoing leader Michael Howard as party chief .
Mr. Howard announced plans to step down as party leader after Prime Minister Tony Blair 's Labor Party defeated the Conservatives in May parliamentary elections .
Mr. Rifkind says Mr. Clarke has the experience and popular appeal needed to challenge the government in the next election expected in 2009 .
The remaining candidates are Conservative education spokesman David Cameron , the home affairs spokesman David Davis and foreign affairs spokesman Liam Fox .
U.S.-led coalition troops have killed several militants in eastern Afghanistan while a roadside bomb in the south wounded five people .
A coalition statement said the militants were killed during a raid Monday in Nangarhar province .
It did not say how many militants were killed .
The statement said troops also detained a militant suspected of helping foreign fighters in the region .
Meanwhile , in southern Afghanistan , police say a roadside bomb wounded five people , including three police officers , outside the city of Kandahar Tuesday .
Authorities say the device exploded as a vehicle carrying several police officers drove by on the way to a police training academy .
No one has claimed responsibility , but Taliban insurgents have been blamed for a series of recent attacks on Afghan police , who are sometimes seen as less well-trained than other security forces .
Southern Afghanistan is the center of the country 's Taliban insurgency .
India 's foreign minister arrived in Pakistan Sunday to review progress made in the 21-month peace process .
Natwar Singh told reporters at Islamabad airport that people in both countries overwhelmingly desire friendly relations .
He expressed hope that his visit will provide further impetus to increasing cooperation between the two countries .
Mr. Singh is expected to meet with his Pakistani counterpart , Khursheed Mehmood Kasuri and President Pervez Musharraf during the four-day visit .
The two nuclear-armed neighbors are also expected to sign agreements on advance warning of ballistic missile tests and on a hotline between their coast guards .
Mr. Singh 's visit follows a meeting between General Musharraf and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New York last month .
Blizzards and freezing temperatures shut down airport runways , train tracks and highways across Europe Sunday , stranding thousands of holiday travelers .
Airports in Britain , Germany , France , the Netherlands , Italy and other countries reported cancellations or delays in hundreds of flights .
Runways at both of Britain 's busiest airports , Heathrow and Gatwick in London , were closed to allow snow to be cleared .
Frankfurt airport in Germany canceled around 500 flights Sunday .
Police were called in on Saturday to calm angry passengers .
In addition to airports in the United Kingdom , roads and railways were affected in Northern Ireland , Wales , Scotland and England .
Severe weather warnings have been issued for many areas .
World leaders are concluding a three-day summit at the United Nations Friday , with a declaration of goals to reform the world body and alleviate global poverty .
The document includes proposals on preventing genocide , fighting poverty and hunger , and establishing a Peacebuilding Commission .
But it omits measures on disarmament and language fighting terrorism because of disagreements among members .
King Abdullah of Jordan said Friday that global efforts toward peace must include zero tolerance toward those who promote extremism .
He added that Jordan does not endorse extremist interpretations of Islam and wants to promote a more moderate approach .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said his country welcomes President Bush 's pledge to eliminate trade barriers in order to lift people out of poverty .
Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin - speaking in both English and French - said he was disappointed with the lack of progress at the summit on reforming the U.N. Human Rights Commission .
European scientists have released the first-ever photo images of Venus ' south pole taken by their orbiting Venus Express spacecraft .
The European Space Agency released the photos Thursday , two days after the spacecraft safely entered orbit Tuesday .
The images were taken from a distance of about 200,000 kilometers and showed pale yellow clouds ribbed with darker spirals and a dark vortex .
By studying Venus scientists hope to learn lessons that might apply to Earth , where carbon dioxide pollution and greenhouse gases collect in the atmosphere .
Venus is Earth 's closest neighbor , and the two planets are roughly the same size with about the same mass , density and gravity .
But Venus is shrouded in sulfuric acid clouds and a dense carbon dioxide atmosphere .
Its temperatures average at about 450 degrees Celsius .
A leading human rights group says the widespread disappearance of civilians in Russia 's breakaway republic of Chechnya has now reached the level of a crime against humanity .
A report released Monday by Human Rights Watch says that as many as 5,000 people have gone missing since the beginning of the conflict in 1999 between Russian forces and separatists .
The New York-based group says Russian authorities had full knowledge of the abductions .
The authorities deny all responsibility .
The report was released amid an informal roundtable discussion beginning today in Strasbourg , France , on the conflict in Chechnya .
The discussions , organized by the Council of Europe , will include at least 40 Russian and Chechen political representatives , including pro-Moscow Chechen President Alu Alkhanov and Russian Human Rights Commissioner Vladimir Lukin .
Iraqi Kurdish , Sunni and Shi'ite negotiators are holding marathon talks , in a push to reach agreement on a draft constitution ahead of a Monday night deadline .
Negotiators have been unable to bridge differences over issues of political autonomy , revenue distribution and the role of Islamic law in post-war Iraq .
An Iraqi government spokesman , Laith Kubba , says if negotiators fail to reach agreement by midnight Monday that lawmakers may have to amend the constitution to extend negotiations for a second time .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says it has opened a criminal probe into the death of a relative of Iraq 's ambassador to the United Nations .
The son of Ambassador Samir Sumaidaie 's cousin was killed in June as U.S. Marines searched his home in western Iraq .
Last month , the ambassador called the killing of Mohammed Sumaidaie a crime and demanded a full investigation .
U.S. lawmakers say conditions at the U.S. prison for suspected terrorists and enemy combatants in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba have improved .
Sixteen members of the House of Representatives toured the prison Saturday on a one-day fact-finding trip .
The lawmakers witnessed interrogations , toured cell-blocks and ate the same meals as served to the detainees .
Representative Ellen Tauscher , a California Democrat , said the Guantanamo she saw was not the same one she heard about a few years ago , and fellow-Democrat Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas said the facility showed evidence of improvement .
She has been among lawmakers calling for the facility to be shut down amid accusations of prisoner abuse .
Speaking Sunday on Fox News television , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the idea that there is a policy of abuse or torture at Guantanamo is false .
Yemeni authorities say militants have attacked government targets in central Yemen in a second day of fighting with security forces .
Officials say the gunmen fired on a government building , police checkpoints and a power station in the central town of Marib early this Thursday morning .
There were no immediate reports of casualties .
Yemeni troops killed four suspected terrorists in Marib on Wednesday .
Authorities say the militants were involved in a suicide bomb attack July 2 in Marib that killed eight Spanish tourists and two Yemeni drivers .
Authorities initially said senior al-Qaida leader Qassem al-Raimi was among those killed Wednesday .
But , officials said Thursday a medical examination showed the body was that of another man .
Raimi escaped from a prison in the Yemeni capital , Sanaa , in 2006 .
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest , and , in carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day , became very wearied with his long journey .
He sat down by the wayside , and throwing down his load , besought " Death " to come .
" Death " immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what reason he had called him .
The Old Man hurriedly replied , " That , lifting up the load , you may place it again upon my shoulders . "
Despite failing to win the gold medal in the 2004 Athens Olympic games , and in the 2006 International World Championship , expectations for this year 's U.S. Olympic basketball team remain high .
The roster includes some of the best professional players in the National Basketball Association including superstars Kobe Bryant and LeBron James .
But as VOA 's Brian Padden reports a U.S. team made up of NBA stars can no longer automatically dominate international competition because the world is full of NBA stars .
The European Union 's top justice minister says member nations could lose their voting rights if they are found to have allowed secret CIA prisons within their borders .
EU Justice and Home Affairs Commissioner Franco Frattini says nations face the loss of their right to vote in the Council of EU Ministers , which is the bloc 's main decision making body .
American newspapers have reported the Central Intelligence Agency runs a secret prison network for terrorist suspects in several eastern European countries .
Mr. Frattini says EU justice officials last week formally asked Washington about the allegations , but they have not yet received a response .
Europe 's human rights watchdog has opened an investigation into the alleged prisons and reports of flights transporting CIA prisoners through EU airspace .
People across Asia and the world have greeted the Lunar New Year with family meals , prayers and massive fireworks displays .
In China , residents set off thousands of firecrackers in Beijing late Saturday to ring in the Year of the Pig .
In London , the Chinese community ushered in the new year with a parade , dancing and fireworks .
Chinese traditionally set off firecrackers to scare away evil spirits and encourage good fortune for the new year .
The pig is one of 12 animals and symbols on the 12-year Chinese zodiac calendar .
According to customary superstition , people born in the Year of the Pig are usually honest , straightforward and hardworking .
Afghan officials say U.S.-led coalition soldiers accidentally killed five Afghan police officers in the troubled south .
A deputy police chief in Helmand province says American troops mistakenly thought Afghan officers manning a checkpoint were militants late Thursday .
He said U.S. troops opened fire in the Gereshk district of southern Helmand province , killing five .
But two U.S. coalition spokesmen have said there is no indication that U.S. soldiers were involved in the incident .
A spokesman for a separate NATO force in Afghanistan says its troops were not involved either .
Also Friday , authorities in eastern Afghanistan say a suicide bomber struck near an army patrol in Konar province , wounding two soldiers and one civilian .
Three east-coast U.S. states are preparing for Tropical Storm Ophelia , which could regain strength Tuesday before reaching U.S. shores .
The National Hurricane Center says the slow-moving storm could return to hurricane status Tuesday or early Wednesday , as it moves toward land .
A hurricane warning has been issued for parts of North and South Carolina .
South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford has issued a voluntary evacuation order for oceanfront and riverfront areas , while the governors of Virginia and North Carolina have both declared a state of emergency in preparation for the storm .
Ophelia is a much weaker storm than Hurricane Katrina , which battered the U.S. Gulf Coast two weeks ago , but officials say it could cause considerable damage because it is moving so slowly .
Ophelia 's winds dropped to about 115 kilometers an hour Monday , just below hurricane level ( 119 kph ) .
Iraqi police say a car bomb blast in a predominantly Kurdish area of Kirkuk has killed at least eight people and wounded dozens more .
Officials say the attack took place Friday near a market in the northern oil-rich city , where ethnic tensions have been rising in recent days .
South of Baghdad , the U.S. military says two soldiers were injured when an American helicopter was forced to make an emergency landing early Friday in the predominantly Sunni town of Yusifiyah .
The military says the aircraft was providing support to a planned mission when it landed , and that the incident is under investigation .
The U.S. military also says coalition forces killed five terrorists and detained 32 suspects in operations in Baghdad and areas to the north since Thursday .
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass .
The Goat , envying the Ass on account of his greater abundance of food , said , " How shamefully you are treated :
at one time grinding in the mill , and at another carrying heavy burdens " ;
and he further advised him to pretend to be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest .
The Ass listened to his words , and falling into a ditch , was very much bruised .
His master , sending for a leech , asked his advice .
He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat .
They at once killed the Goat , and so healed the Ass .
Hundreds of chanting Iranian demonstrators gathered Tuesday outside a uranium conversion plant in central Iran , demanding that their government continue its controversial nuclear fuel program .
Protesters at the Isfahan plant - many of them Islamist students - also urged Tehran to break off talks with European negotiators who want Iran to end its nuclear activities .
Last week , Iran defied the negotiators and re-started its conversion process , which the United States and other Western governments say could lead Iran to develop atomic weapons .
Iran says it wants to enrich uranium to power nuclear reactors for generating electricity .
The government insists it has the right to do so under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty .
In Tehran , Iran 's new nuclear policy chief Ali Larijani said Tehran will proceed with its fuel cycle work , while continuing talks with the EU
The World Health Organization expects the number of women who smoke to triple over the next generation , if current trends continue .
As a result , it expects more than 200 million women to die from tobacco induced diseases .
But those who quit can improve their chances of avoiding lung cancer and other tobacco related diseases .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
French President Jacques Chirac says Turkey must negotiate with all 25 nations in the European Union , including Cyprus , during membership talks set for October .
Mr. Chirac Monday said Ankara must clarify its position on the Greek Cypriot government and assure the bloc it is willing to fully respect its EU commitments .
Last month , Turkey extended its customs union with EU states to the 10 members admitted last year , including Cyprus , but later insisted that did not amount to recognition of the internationally-backed government .
Ankara supports Turkish Cypriots on the divided island .
The EU 's top executive body Monday said Turkey would be negotiating with all 25 member states during accession talks .
She said EU foreign ministers will discuss the issue later this week .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf warns that a proposed law in North West Frontier Province to enforce strict adherence to Islam will take away people 's freedoms .
Speaking at a rally Saturday , General Musharraf urged people to reject extremists , saying they want to push Pakistan backward .
Supporters of the bill say it will help improve society .
At the president 's request , the Supreme Court Monday will begin hearings on whether the proposed enforcement law , known as " Hisba , " is constitutional .
Meanwhile , hard-line Islamist groups are condemning General Musharraf 's decision to expel all 1,400 foreign students from the nation 's madrassas , calling the move " inhuman . "
The president announced Friday no new visas will be issued to non-Pakistanis to study in these seminaries , saying he wants to stop the madrassas being used to spread extremism .
The U.S. and Mozambican militaries have begun a week of joint training exercises in peacekeeping and humanitarian relief operations .
Mozambique 's defense ministry said Wednesday the exercises in Moamba district , in southern Mozambique , will include about 800 Mozambican and 700 U.S. personnel .
The ministry said the training will include a simulation of a conflict zone to practice the peacekeeping and relief activities .
The training is part of an annual cooperation program between the U.S. military and some African countries .
Senegal , Ghana , and Benin have taken part in the program in the past .
Pioneering Austrian jazz pianist Joe Zawinul - founder of the jazz-rock group Weather Report - has died .
Hospital officials say Zawinul died Tuesday in Vienna at age 75 .
Austrian media reports say he had been suffering from cancer .
Zawinul founded the group Weather Report with saxophonist Wayne Shorter which pioneered the fusion between traditional jazz and the electronic instruments of rock .
Weather Report won critical acclaim , numerous awards , and fans around the world .
Prior to the group 's founding , Zawinul was famous in jazz circles for his work with such stars as Dinah Washington and Cannonball Adderley .
A trial version of the first ever Muslim-friendly virtual world is now available online .
Called Muxlim Pal , the site allows online computer users to create an avatar , or character , and interact with other users in a safe and friendly , albeit virtual , environment .
Once in the virtual world , characters can go shopping , attend concerts or pray in custom-designed rooms .
The Finland-based Muxlim Pal is similar to other popular virtual-world programs such as The Sims and Second Life .
But unlike those programs , Muxlim does not allow sexual , drug-related or other content it deems obscene .
Program creator Mohamed El-Fatatry says the idea came to him after talking to young Muslims who wanted a place to share their interests and lifestyles .
He says the goal is to connect both Muslims and non-Muslims alike through shared online experiences .
The French sports daily L'Equipe reports that Bulgarian tennis player Sesil Karatantcheva tested positive for a steroid at the 2005 French Open tournament near Paris .
In its Tuesday edition , the sports daily alleged the 16-year-old Karatantcheva tested positive for nandrolone after her 6-2 , 4-6 , 4-6 quarterfinal loss to Elena Likhovtseva of Russia in June .
L'Equipe also reported that Karatantcheva appeared last week before a panel of three judges appointed by the International Tennis Federation .
But Karatantcheva expressed shock at the allegations , denying she had appeared before the federation 's judges .
L'Equipe 's report is its latest allegation of positive doping tests at this year 's French Open .
The paper reported Argentina 's Mariano Puerta and his countryman Mariano Hood failed drug tests .
Iranian philosopher and writer Ramin Jahanbegloo has been arrested in Tehran on unspecified charges .
Liberal cleric Mohsen Kadivar told journalists Wednesday of the arrest , at a gathering of writers in Tehran called to mark World Press Freedom Day .
A deputy Tehran prosecutor told Iran 's Student News Agency that Jahanbegloo was being held in Tehran 's Evin prison .
Political dissidents are often held and sometimes tortured at the notorious facility .
An unnamed judiciary official is quoted in the Iranian newspaper Etemad-e-Melli as saying charges against Jahanbegloo will be announced after interrogations .
Jahanbegloo , educated at the Sorbonne in Paris and Harvard University in the U.S. state of Massachusetts , holds dual citizenship with Canada .
He heads the department of Contemporary Studies at the Cultural Research Bureau in Tehran .
He has lectured on the prospects for democracy in Iran , and authored books on Indian independence leader Mahatma Gandhi and liberal political philosopher Isaiah Berlin .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says coalition forces have killed at least 12 insurgents in a clash in southeastern Khost province .
A military statement issued Thursday , said the fighting erupted late Tuesday , when insurgents fired rockets at a U.S. base at Salerno and troops retaliated with artillery and air strikes at rebel positions .
There were no coalition casualties .
The fighting is described as one of the bloodiest in recent months in Afghanistan , where thousands of U.S.-led troops are continuing to pursue Taleban and al-Qaida militants .
Taleban militants and loyalists have been waging a low-level insurgency since the fundamentalist Islamic regime was overthrown by U.S.-led forces in 2001 .
But American commanders say the insurgency is unraveling in the face of military operations and an offer of reconciliation from the Afghan government .
Baltimore , Maryland has long had a reputation as being one of the most violent cities in the United States .
While homicides were down in the first half of 2008 , police in the city of 630,000 people are battling to control another type of crime , gun violence .
This year gun crimes have resulted in dozens of shooting homicides , assaults and robberies with deadly weapons .
Law enforcement officials are troubled by the spike and are using different methods to reverse the trend .
VOA 's Chris Simkins visited Baltimore to see how police are trying to control the wave of gun violence .
Authorities in Afghanistan say a U.S. airstrike in Ghazni province has killed 12 Taleban fighters , including a senior commander involved in the kidnapping of 23 South Koreans two months ago .
General Ali Shah Ahmadza , a top provincial police official , said Tuesday the Taleban commander Mullah Abdullah Jan was killed in the overnight bombing in Giro district .
The U.S.-led coalition said that several militants were killed and four were detained in the operation , but it could not immediately confirm if Jan was among the dead .
In other news , NATO reports that one of its soldiers died and another was wounded during an explosion in southern Afghanistan on Monday .
No further details of the incident were made available .
Ukraine 's opposition has challenged the results of Sunday 's presidential election in an appeal to the country 's Supreme Court as tens of thousands of protesters crowd Kiev and other cities for a fourth straight day .
Opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko filed the formal complaint Thursday .
Election officials declared pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the victor in the election , with slightly more than 49 percent of the vote .
But Mr. Yushchenko has rejected the results and has called for a general strike , saying his country is " on the verge of civil conflict " .
Opposition leaders in Kiev say their supporters are already blocking roads in some parts of Ukraine .
Former Polish President and Solidarity Trade union leader Lech Walesa is in Kiev to mediate the dispute .
U.S. troops have launched new raids around the northern Iraqi city of Mosul , arresting suspected insurgents and seizing weapons in an effort to secure the city for the January 30 vote .
The U.S. military says nine people were arrested overnight , and nearly 200 have been detained over the past week .
A hospital in Mosul also came under attack from insurgents Thursday , but no casualties were reported .
South of Mosul , in Beiji , officials say a Brazilian construction worker is missing after gunmen ambushed his car Wednesday .
Two other contractors - a Briton and an Iraqi - were killed in the same attack .
And Chinese officials say they are working with Muslim clerics to secure the release of eight Chinese hostages .
The kidnappers have threatened to kill the men Thursday if Beijing does not clarify its role in Iraq .
U.S. defense officials say the Army reached recruiting goals for a second straight month in July - but the service may still fall short of its annual goals .
A spokesman says though active duty Army recruitment was up last month , the Army National Guard and Army Reserve continued to fall short of recruiting goals .
The U.S. Army recently increased its number of recruiters , as polls indicated that young people are wary of joining the U.S. military because of the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Last month , the Pentagon petitioned the U.S. Congress to raise the maximum age for military recruits from 35 to 42-years-old - a move that would widen the pool of possible military enlistees .
Colombian singer Shakira has topped the list of nominations for the United States ' top awards for Latin-American music .
The singer , known for her hip-shaking dance moves , garnered five nominations for the Latin Grammys , announced Tuesday in New York .
Her nominations include Song of the Year , Best Short Form Music Video and Record of the Year .
She will compete with Guatemalan singer-songwriter Ricardo Arjona , whose four nominations include Record of the Year and Song of the Year .
Other top nominees are Argentine guitarist and singer Gustavo Cerati , and Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venagas , each of whom got four nominations .
New to this year 's awards is a category for Best Cumbia-Vallenato Album , a style based on Colombian folk music .
The seventh annual Latin Grammy awards will be presented November second in New York .
The Arab League says an emergency Arab summit scheduled for Wednesday at the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh has been postponed , following the death of Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd .
An Arab League official , Hisham Youssef , at the Red Sea resort told reporters that the postponement " is for a few days , " and that consultations will soon begin to decide on a new date for the summit .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak last week called the summit to discuss the situation in Iraq , the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and terrorism .
Afghan officials say gunmen Saturday shot and killed two German journalists in northern Baghlan province .
The officials identify the journalists as a man and a woman who worked for the German news agency Deutsche Welle .
Earlier , a NATO soldier died when militants ambushed his patrol with a roadside bomb and small arms fire .
A NATO statement said the attack occurred in the volatile Panjwayi district of Kandahar province .
Taleban attacks have surged in Afghanistan this year with attacks on military positions as well as suicide and car bombings .
The coalition offensive that toppled the Taleban from power was launched exactly five years ago with air strikes on al-Qaida terrorist training camps and Taleban military installations .
Former bitter foes Iraq and Iran say they will sign a military cooperation agreement in which Iran will help train Iraq 's armed forces .
Iranian Defense Minister Ali Shamkhani and his Iraqi counterpart Saadun al-Dulaimi announced the agreement Thursday during a joint news conference in Tehran .
Under the deal , Iran would help equip and train the Iraqi army , and the nations would set up committees to combat terrorism , clear minefields and identify missing soldiers from the 1980 - 1988 war .
Iran opposed the U.S.-led war in Iraq , and has repeatedly called for the withdrawal of coalition forces .
But Mr. al-Dulaimi said any withdrawal would be premature and could pave the way for more violence in Iraq .
The International Football Federation 's disciplinary committee has opened proceedings against Italian player Marco Materazzi for his conduct in Sunday 's World Cup final in Berlin .
FIFA said it opened the proceedings after statements Wednesday from French star Zinedine Zidane .
Zidane was ejected from the second extra time period of Sunday 's game for head-butting Materazzi in the chest .
Italy won the World Cup for the fourth time by beating France on penalty kicks 5-3 .
Zidane told a French television interviewer Wednesday that Materazzi had provoked him by insulting the French player 's mother and sister repeatedly during the game .
Zidane 's mother is in the hospital .
FIFA has summoned both players to a disciplinary committee hearing July 20 in Zurich , Switzerland .
Lawmakers from Southeast Asian nations say countries in the region must take stronger measures to push military-ruled Burma to make democratic reforms .
Legislators from the Inter-Parliamentary Myanmar Caucus of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations met in Kuala Lumpur Saturday .
They said ASEAN should bring Burma before the United Nations Security Council .
ASEAN generally adheres to a policy of non-interference with member states , but it says Burma 's refusal to reform is damaging the group 's credibility throughout the world .
Burma 's military government has tight control over the country .
The opposition National League for Democracy won parliamentary elections in 1990 , but was never allowed to take power .
Its leader , Aung San Suu Kyi , has spent more than a decade under house arrest .
ASEAN is to discuss Burma during ministerial meetings in Kuala Lumpur next week .
Iraqi police say car bombs have killed at least 13 people south of Baghdad .
They say the two blasts late Wednesday in the town of Mashruh also wounded at least 27 people .
Meanwhile , four protesters were wounded in a clash with Iraqi police in Tikrit , hometown of ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein .
Some 1,000 people had been protesting the killing of a local official earlier Wednesday , and called on the provincial governor and police chief to step down .
Meanwhile , kidnappers of Egypt 's top envoy to Iraq threatened to kill him because they say his country is allied with Jews and Christians .
Since the Egyptian diplomat was abducted in Baghdad Saturday , insurgents have attacked Bahrain 's and Pakistan 's envoys to Iraq in separate incidents .
The Bahraini envoy was wounded , and the Pakistani diplomat escaped unharmed and was withdrawn from Iraq .
Hundreds of people in northwest Pakistan watched a public execution Tuesday , after a Taliban court found a man guilty of killing two brothers .
The execution highlights the influence the Taliban still wields in the North Waziristan tribal region , which borders Afghanistan .
Taliban members tied the man 's hands , blindfolded him and brought him out to be shot in public in the town of Miran Shah .
A relative of the slain brothers shot and killed the man , after the Taliban court decided that Islamic law called for relatives of the deceased to take their revenge for the murders .
Pakistan has carried out multiple offensives against Taliban militants in the northwest tribal belt , most recently in South Waziristan , but troops have yet to launch an assault in North Waziristan .
Australia has warned of possible terrorist plots to kidnap Westerners from Malaysian coastal resorts .
A travel advisory issued Thursday warned against travel to coastal resorts , islands and diving sites off the east coast of Malaysia 's Sabah state on Borneo island .
Malaysia 's deputy defense minister downplayed the new warnings , telling the Associated Press there was sufficient security in all parts of Sabah and thus , no cause for alarm .
Kidnappers have struck several times in Sabah , which is a short boat ride from the southern Philippine bases of Muslim separatists and the al-Qaida-linked Muslim extremist group Abu Sayyaf .
In 2000 , Abu Sayyaf guerrillas seized 21 people , including Western tourists , from a diving resort on Sabah 's Sipadan island .
The hostages were later freed in exchange for large ransoms .
Chileans are voting in a runoff presidential election between a former political prisoner and a billionaire businessman that could result in Chile 's first female president .
About 8.2 million people are eligible to vote in the contest between Socialist Michelle Bachelet and Sebastian Pinera , the candidate of a rightist alliance .
Recent polls indicate that Bachelet leads Pinera by at least five percentage points in the contest to succeed outgoing President Ricardo Lagos .
Bachelet won Chile 's first round of elections in December with 46 percent of the vote , falling short of the 50 percent needed to avoid a runoff .
The next president inherits an economy that has surged in part because of soaring prices for copper , which is Chile 's top export .
Turkish prosecutors have indicted 33 people in an alleged plot to discredit and destabilize the current government .
Turkish officials said Friday the suspects were planning to assassinate prominent members of the country 's Christian and Jewish communities , and carry out other attacks on minority groups .
Officials said the suspects then planned to blame Islamic extremists in order to discredit the government .
Prosecutors said the plot involved three navy admirals and several other current and retired military officers .
On Thursday , Turkish media reported that authorities detained some 20 people as part of an investigation into the " Ergenekon " network - a suspected right-wing group that prosecutors allege intends to trigger a military coup .
Turkish authorities have charged more than 200 people , including military and police officers , journalists , and academics with having links to a plot to overthrow the ruling Justice and Development Party or AKP .
Chinese human rights activists say police have harassed and intimidated dissidents so they would not speak out during U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 's visit to Beijing .
The Chinese Human Rights Defenders group said Saturday that a number of dissidents have been put under house arrest , questioned and followed by Beijing police in an effort to silence them during Clinton 's visit .
The group said that among those under house arrest is Zeng Jinyan , the wife of imprisoned activist Hu Jia .
It issued a statement after Clinton said the debate with China over human rights should not get in the way of progress in other areas .
U.S. stocks were down as much as one percent as Thursday 's trading got underway .
European shares made modest gains in afternoon trading .
Many Asian markets declined despite Wednesday 's Senate vote .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index lost nearly two percent , while the indexes in Sydney , South Korea and Taiwan also dropped .
But Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index gained just over one percent by the close .
Amnesty International has accused Mexico of ignoring police abuses against protesters during a summit last May in Guadalajara of leaders from Europe , the Caribbean and Latin America .
Amnesty said Thursday that as some 3,000 people protested around the city , more than 100 were arrested , many arbitrarily , and that several were coerced , beaten or threatened into making confessions .
The rights group also says the way in which many protesters were arrested , along with a lack of an independent investigation into complaints of torture and ill-treatment , raise doubts about criminal proceedings being implemented to prosecute them .
Mexico 's National Human Rights Commission also has found that local and state authorities seriously violated human rights during the demonstrations , but Jalisco state officials have so far rejected calls for further investigations .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his country would stop oil exports to the United States if there is an attempt to assassinate him .
During his weekly radio address Sunday , Mr. Chavez said Cuban President Fidel Castro warned him a week ago that Washington is plotting to kill him .
Mr. Chavez said if anything happens to him , Mr. Bush can " forget about Venezuelan oil . "
Washington has criticized Venezuelan President Chavez 's populist policies and his country 's close relationship with Cuba .
President Chavez has accused the United States of backing attempts to oust him , including a 2002 coup which briefly removed him from power .
Israeli police clashed Monday with Palestinians throwing rocks and stones at Jews outside a contested shrine in East Jerusalem .
Police used stun grenades to disperse hundreds of Palestinians at the shrine , known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary .
The violence came during Israel 's annual celebration of its capture of Arab East Jerusalem in the 1967 war .
Police say two visitors were slightly injured .
Israeli radio said local Muslim religious authorities appealed for calm and urged Palestinians to avoid violence .
Palestinian leaders have warned that visits to the shrine by right-wing Israelis seeking to derail Israel 's upcoming withdrawal from the Gaza Strip could trigger violence .
A huge Israeli-Palestinian confrontation at the shrine in 2000 , triggered by a visit from Israel 's Ariel Sharon , sparked a four-year Palestinian uprising .
Philippine President Gloria Arroyo has declared a state of national calamity after giant mudslides triggered by a typhoon killed hundreds of people .
Ms. Arroyo made the declaration Sunday as emergency workers searched through mud , rubble and fallen trees in villages across the country 's east .
The Red Cross has confirmed at least 406 deaths , with another 398 people missing .
The president of the National Red Cross , Richard Gordon , says the death toll could exceed 1,000 .
Typhoon Durian rushed ashore Thursday .
Pounding rains turned Mayon Volcano into a torrent of mud , volcanic ash and boulders that engulfed low-lying towns in Albay province .
The president 's declaration authorizes the government to release funds for rescue and recover efforts in the hardest hit regions .
U.S. stock markets posted slight losses Thursday after briefly making some gains .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average , S&P 500 and NASDAQ all fell less than half of one percent .
European markets were down sharply .
Key indexes were off as much as 2.4 percent in early trading , but losses eased to about one percent by the close of trading .
The stock market troubles began earlier this week on concerns about the health of Chinese markets and the U.S. economy .
The Shanghai index lost nearly three percent on Thursday .
An even more drastic drop in Shanghai shares earlier this week sparked the current market sell-off .
Shares in Hong Kong dropped 1 1/2 percent , while Japan 's market closed about nine-tenths of a percent lower .
Smaller markets in New Zealand and the Philippines rebounded .
Portugal has become a diversified and increasingly service-based economy since joining the European Community - the EU 's predecessor - in 1986 .
Over the past two decades , successive governments have privatized many state-controlled firms and liberalized key areas of the economy , including the financial and telecommunications sectors .
The country qualified for the Economic and Monetary Union ( EMU ) in 1998 and began circulating the euro on 1 January 2002 along with 11 other EU members .
The economy had grown by more than the EU average for much of the 1990s , but fell back in 2001 - 08 , and contracted 2.6 % in 2009 , before growing 1 % in 2010 .
GDP per capita stands at roughly two-thirds of the EU-27 average .
A poor educational system and a rigid labor market have been obstacles to greater productivity and growth .
Portugal also has been increasingly overshadowed by lower-cost producers in Central Europe and Asia as a destination for foreign direct investment .
Portugal 's low competitiveness , low growth prospects , and high levels of public debt have made it vulnerable to bond market turbulence .
The government is implementing austerity measures , including a 5 % public salary cut which went into effect on January 1 , 2011 and a 2 % increase in the value-added tax , to reduce the budget deficit from 9.3 % of GDP in 2009 to 4.6 % in 2011 , but some investors have expressed concern about the government 's ability to achieve these targets and cover its sovereign debt .
Without the option for stimulus measures , the government is focusing instead on boosting exports and implementing labor market reforms to try to raise GDP growth and increase Portugal 's competitiveness - which , over time , may help mitigate investor concerns .
Thousands of demonstrators have gathered in downtown Santiago to protest the start of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit .
Officials said Friday up to 10,000 people are participating in a peaceful , government authorized demonstration .
Earlier , police used water cannon and teargas to break up a group of rock throwing protesters opposed to the war in Iraq and the pending arrival of President Bush in the Chilean capital .
Heads of state from 21 Pacific rim countries are scheduled to attend the two-day weekend conference , which will focus on terrorism , nuclear proliferation and global trade .
In preparation for the summit , foreign and trade ministers agreed Thursday on a broad anti-terrorism resolution , including implementing additional maritime and aviation security measures in the next two years .
This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely covered by glaciers and is difficult to approach .
It was discovered in 1739 by a French naval officer after whom the island was named .
No claim was made until 1825 , when the British flag was raised .
In 1928 , the UK waived its claim in favor of Norway , which had occupied the island the previous year .
In 1971 , Norway designated Bouvet Island and the adjacent territorial waters a nature reserve .
Since 1977 , it has run an automated meteorological station on the island .
The U.S. space agency NASA has added a day to the flight of the space shuttle Discovery to allow time to review a routine inspection of the orbiter 's heat shields .
NASA said Saturday a problem with Discovery 's communication system prompted the extension .
Astronauts will use communications equipment aboard the International Space Station to transmit heat shield video and laser scans to engineers on the ground .
Discovery is now scheduled to land Monday at 1254 UTC .
The space shuttle docked at the space station Wednesday .
On Friday , shuttle astronauts conducted a spacewalk to disconnect an old ammonia tank and prepare for the installation of a new one .
They also retrieved a Japanese experiment from the station 's exterior .
The second of three planned spacewalks will begin early Sunday .
Thai investigators continue to search for those responsible for a series of bombings in the capital , Bangkok , on New Year 's Eve , which killed at least three people and injured 38 others .
Although it is not clear who is behind the attacks , Thai officials say they were aimed at creating panic and undermining the current military government .
The Thai military deposed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in a bloodless coup in September .
The government is blaming the attacks on former politicians who lost power in the coup , although it has not specifically named Mr. Thaksin as a suspect .
The former leader , who has been living outside the country since the coup , issued a statement Tuesday in which he denied any involvement in the bombings .
He blamed Islamist insurgents rooted in southern Thailand .
A United Airlines flight from London to Washington was diverted Wednesday to an airport in Massachusetts because of an apparently claustrophobic passenger .
U.S. authorities and transportation officials say fighter jets escorted Flight 923 to Boston 's Logan airport .
The flight was carrying 182 passengers and 12 crew members .
They say there was an altercation between the flight crew and a woman who said she was claustrophobic .
Initial media reports stated the woman had a screwdriver , matches and a note referring to al-Qaida , but officials later denied the claims .
Television reports showed police with sniffer dogs inspecting baggage from the plane after it landed .
The disturbance comes just a week after police in London foiled a terror plot to blow up planes from London to the United States .
A report in the Washington Post newspaper says U.S. officials are reaching out to Syria 's opposition as concerns grow that political unrest in Lebanon could spread into Syria .
In an interview with the Post published Saturday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the United States is speaking to many people in the region about the situation in Syria , in order to prepare for any eventuality .
The Post says Washington 's action is the result of a discussion between President Bush and French President Jacques Chirac , in which Mr. Chirac cautioned that Syria 's government is not likely to survive the withdrawal of its troops from Lebanon .
He also is reported to have predicted that free elections in Lebanon will force change inside Syria .
Meanwhile , in Lebanon , Syria 's withdrawal continues .
Witnesses report several truckloads of troops and equipment crossing the border into Syria overnight .
U.S. Secretary of State-designate Condoleezza Rice has left a Washington hospital following a one-night hospital stay after successful , minimally invasive surgery .
A White House spokesman said Saturday Ms. Rice is doing well .
Ms. Rice underwent a one-and-a-half hour uterine fibroid embolization at a Washington hospital Friday .
The operation , an alternative to hysterectomy , shrinks fibroid tumors and allows for a rapid recovery .
Uterine fibroids are among the most common tumors in women , and are not cancerous .
The administration official said Ms. Rice will return to work Monday .
Currently the national security adviser , she was nominated by President Bush on Tuesday to head the State Department .
U.S. officials say Burma 's government has agreed to allow a single U.S. military aircraft carrying relief supplies to land in the country on Monday .
Also , the UN 's World Food Program says it will resume aid flights to Burma even after Burmese authorities impounded relief supplies flown into the country .
The slow delivery of food supplies comes as news reports say that large numbers of Burmese now face shortages of food and water .
A U.S. official says the storm has likely disrupted Burma 's rice production leaving millions without their main food staple .
VOA 's Chris Simkins reports .
On Thursday , June 5 , President Bush is scheduled to speak at the groundbreaking of the U.S. Institute of Peace .
Thursday is also the 61st anniversary of the day that then U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall laid out a plan to return a devastated continent to economic health after World War II .
There is no word on what Mr. Bush will say on Thursday .
But the president last week spoke of the reconstruction of Iraq in the context of the Marshall Plan .
Next week , Mr. Bush will travel to Europe , where he will commemorate the anniversary of the Marshall plan and the Berlin Airlift .
VOA 's George Lewinski remembers the devastation of Europe at that time , and the four-year foreign aid program that was launched in a speech 61 years ago this week .
Three of America 's top female rowers work at the same high tech company just outside Washington .
They share the same passion for rowing as the company 's CEO , a former world-class rower himself .
The result is a flexible work schedule that allows the young athletes to train for this year 's Olympic games in Beijing .
For producer Yi Suli , Elaine Lu has more .
A Columbia lawyer was well into a lengthy cross-examination of a witness when he stopped and said , " Your honor , a juror is asleep . "
The Judge ruled , " You put him to sleep ; YOU wake him up . "
The European Union and its Mediterranean neighbors begin talks in Spain Sunday focusing on trade and fighting terrorism .
Other topics to be discussed at the two-day conference in Barcelona include economic reform and illegal migration .
Participants also hope to make progress in the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean free trade zone by 2010 .
Although billed as a summit , most leaders from North Africa and the Middle East are staying away due to a variety of domestic or regional reasons .
Of the 10 non-EU participants , only Turkey and the Palestinian Authority are sending their top leaders .
The leaders of Egypt , Algeria , Tunisia , Morocco , Lebanon , Syria , Israel and Jordan are expected to be absent , but other top officials will represent them .
The Euro-Mediterranean partnership was launched 10 years ago to further cooperation in areas of mutual interest between EU states and southern Mediterranean nations .
Chinese officials say there is little hope for survivors from a landslide in central China , which has killed about 30 people .
Rescue workers found a crushed bus Friday underneath the rubble at a railway tunnel construction site near the Three Gorges Dam in Hubei province .
Checkpoint records show the bus was carrying 27 people .
Earlier reports from state media said the landslide killed one worker and injured another .
Two workers are still missing .
The landslide happened Tuesday amid criticism over the environmental impact of the world 's biggest dam .
Local officials have warned that China faces a catastrophe if it fails to stop erosion and other problems around the reservoir .
However , Chinese officials suggest there is no connection between the dam and the landslide .
Russia says it will welcome all bids for the main production unit of the country 's giant oil firm Yukos in a court-ordered auctioned this month .
Speaking Saturday during a trip to New Delhi , Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov said Russia wants the December 19 sale to be as open as possible .
Russia says bids for the Yuganskneftegaz unit will start at $ 8.6 billion - far below its value estimated by independent investment bankers .
A subsidiary of Russia 's gas monopoly , Gazprom , is to bid on the unit .
The government says the auction is part of efforts to claim $ 25 billion in back taxes from Yukos .
Critics says the proceedings are politically motivated retaliation for the support former Yukos head Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave Russia 's political opposition .
The Kremlin denies the charge .
Mr. Khodorkovsky is currently under arrest and on trial for tax evasion and fraud .
Agreement on the wording of Iraq 's permanent constitution faltered again Saturday when five Sunni Arab ministers presented new demands .
The ministers , who are not part of the drafting committee , voiced objections to 13 provisions in the current draft .
U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad met with Iraq 's parliament speaker in an effort to help the groups reach a consensus .
The speaker , Hajim al-Hassani , also met with Sunni Arab delegates .
Shi'ites and Kurds hold the majority of seats in Iraq 's parliament .
Their leaders say they will not make any more concessions and will send the draft to parliament Sunday with or without Sunni Arab approval .
Ultimately , it will be the Iraqi people who will decide whether to accept or reject the draft constitution , when they cast their vote in a national referendum on October 15 .
Cameroon officials say two separate train accidents have happened near the capital , Yaounde , killing at least nine people within a 24 hour period .
On Saturday , authorities say a train carrying 1,000 passengers derailed north of the city , killing at least seven people and injuring some 270 others .
On Friday , a train carrying gas exploded and killed two people south of the capital .
Associated Press reports 100 have been injured .
Three policemen have been shot dead near the Pakistani capital Islamabad .
A police spokesman said the bodies of the dead men were discovered early Sunday .
He said the men were apparently shot in their sleep , each by a single bullet to the head .
The men were guarding a railway bridge in Hasan Abdal , a town 40 kilometers west of Islamabad .
The police spokesman refused to comment on whether the slayings were a criminal act or an attack linked to the Taliban , who frequently target police and security forces .
Health officials in Indonesia are awaiting tests results on the latest patient suspected of contracting bird flu .
If samples sent to a Hong Kong laboratory prove positive , the officials say the four-year-old boy from Sumatra 's Lampung province would be the sixth person in Indonesia to contract the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The virus has killed three people in Indonesia since July .
Since 2003 it has killed about 60 people in Asia and millions of birds .
Indonesian officials say that so far , all patients appear to have contracted the virus directly from birds .
Health officials have warned of dire consequences if the virus begins spreading quickly among humans .
President Bush is to host a three-way meeting with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf later this month .
Presidential spokesman Tony Snow said in a statement that the September 27 meeting at the White House will allow the leaders to discuss further cooperation in enhancing their trilateral relationship .
Mr. Bush also is to meet with the leaders separately , Mr. Musharraf on September 22 and Mr. Karzai on September 26 .
Afghanistan is experiencing an increase in deadly violence from Taleban insurgents .
Relations between Pakistan and Afghanistan have been strained recently over accusations from Afghan officials that Pakistan is not doing enough to fight militants who have crossed into Pakistan .
Pakistan says it is doing everything it can to fight the militants .
Ancient Peru was the seat of several prominent Andean civilizations , most notably that of the Incas whose empire was captured by the Spanish conquistadors in 1533 .
Peruvian independence was declared in 1821 , and remaining Spanish forces were defeated in 1824 .
After a dozen years of military rule , Peru returned to democratic leadership in 1980 , but experienced economic problems and the growth of a violent insurgency .
President Alberto FUJIMORI 's election in 1990 ushered in a decade that saw a dramatic turnaround in the economy and significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity .
Nevertheless , the president 's increasing reliance on authoritarian measures and an economic slump in the late 1990s generated mounting dissatisfaction with his regime , which led to his ouster in 2000 .
A caretaker government oversaw new elections in the spring of 2001 , which ushered in Alejandro TOLEDO Manrique as the new head of government - Peru 's first democratically elected president of Native American ethnicity .
The presidential election of 2006 saw the return of Alan GARCIA Perez who , after a disappointing presidential term from 1985 to 1990 , has overseen a robust macroeconomic performance .
A group of international envoys has ruled out Kosovo 's return to direct Serbian rule .
German diplomat Michael Scheffer said on behalf of the six-nation Contact Group Wednesday that the final status of the province can only come from talks between Kosovo and Serbian leaders .
He said the mainly ethnic Albanian Kosovo must retain its autonomy .
But he ruled out a union with Albania and said Kosovo must not be split along ethnic lines .
Many ethnic Albanians in Kosovo want independence .
Serbia strongly opposes the idea .
The developments came as U.N. prosecutors in Kosovo indicted an ethnic Albanian on murder charges for the 2001 bombing of a busload of Serbs .
The attack in Kosovo killed 12 people and wounded more than 20 others .
The United States has signed a new trade and investment agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or ASEAN .
The Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement , TIFA , establishes standardized import procedures for U.S. goods entering the 10 ASEAN member countries .
It is seen as a precursor to talks on eventually reaching a full free-trade agreement .
U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab signed the pact with her Southeast Asian counterparts Friday in Malaysia 's capital , Kuala Lumpur .
ASEAN member nations include Malaysia , Singapore , Indonesia , Thailand , Philippines , Cambodia , Laos , Vietnam , Burma and Brunei .
Tribesmen in northwestern Pakistan say they publicly executed four people Monday , on charges of adultery .
The three men and one woman were taken from a home in the Khyber region and shot dead in a public square after confessing their crime to a tribal council , or jirga .
Tribal leaders confirmed the four were punished according to their customs and tradition .
Human rights organizations have criticized such public executions .
The punishments often occur in Pakistan 's remote , semi-autonomous tribal areas , where the federal government has limited jurisdiction .
Paramount Pictures says it has agreed to buy DreamWorks SKG , the movie studio co-founded by film director Steven Spielberg .
Paramount plans to pay $ 1.6 billion in cash and debt for the live action portion of DreamWorks .
The deal does not include DreamWorks animation , the most profitable part of the company .
Paramount will get DreamWorks ' library of 59 films , including Gladiator and American Beauty , as well as a production partnership with Mr. Spielberg .
The sale marks the end of the dream of DreamWorks ' founders , Mr. Spielberg , record mogul David Geffen and animator Jeffrey Katzenberg , who had hoped to develop a company that included television , music , films and the Internet .
Paramount is part of the huge media conglomerate , Viacom .
French President Jacques Chirac has raised the threat of a nuclear response to state-sponsored terrorist attacks on French soil .
Mr. Chirac said Thursday state leaders who use terrorist means against France , and those considering use of weapons of mass destruction , must understand they will be exposing themselves to a firm response from his country .
He said France has configured its nuclear arsenal to respond to threats and noted that the number of nuclear warheads on French submarines has been reduced to allow for targeted strikes .
He also said the response could be conventional .
Mr. Chirac made the remarks at a French nuclear base in the northwestern region of Brittany .
The comments came in a speech outlining the basis on which France is maintaining its nuclear deterrent .
The African Union says a plane crash in Sudan 's Darfur region has killed a Moldovan and Ukrainian working as pilots for the African Union .
An AU statement says the plane crashed late Saturday after taking off from the town of Zalingei .
It says there was no one other than the pilots aboard the plane , a Russian-made Antonov 28 that was used to transport AU personnel around Darfur .
Investigators have not determined the cause of the crash .
The crash was the first suffered by the AU peacekeeping forces in Darfur since their deployment there in 2004 .
The African Union has an estimated 7,000 troops in the region , who have been largely unable to prevent continued violence between rebels and Sudanese government forces .
The independent commission that investigated the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks says in the months before the strike , the U.S. agency that oversees aviation failed to respond to dozens of warnings about possible terrorist action on U.S. airliners .
The information is contained in a previously undisclosed report by the September 11 Commission .
The report says the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) received 52 intelligence reports between April and September of 2001 that warned of potential terrorist action by al-Qaida and its leader , Osama bin Laden .
Five of the security warnings mentioned al-Qaida training for airline hijacking and suicide attacks .
However , an FAA spokeswoman says there was no specific warning about the deadly September 11 strikes on Washington and New York .
The report concludes that prior to the attacks , aviation officials were " lulled into a false sense of security , " despite intelligence pointing to a growing terrorist threat .
Ecuador 's defense minister has resigned amid a mounting crisis over protests which have crippled oil production and forced the country to ask Venezuela for a loan of crude oil .
Ecuadorean officials say Defense Minister Solon Espinoza stepped down Friday and was replaced by retired army General Oswaldo Jarrin .
The reason for the resignation was not clear .
The move comes as a state of emergency remains in effect for the provinces of Sucumbios and Orellana , where protesters have massed , demanding new contract negotiations with foreign oil firms .
They also have called for increased spending on infrastructure and social programs .
The demonstrations forced the state-owned oil company , Petroecuador , to suspend production and the government to seek a temporary loan of oil from Venezuela to keep up exports .
Most of Ecuador 's oil exports go to the United States .
Iran 's hard-line Guardian Council has agreed to allow two reformist candidates to run in the June 17 presidential election , after initially disqualifying them .
Iranian state media say the council sent a letter to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Tuesday , informing him of the decision to reinstate the candidacy of former Education Minister Mustafa Moin and Vice President for Sports Moshen Mehralizadeh .
The Ayatollah had ordered the 12-member council to review its initial decision , after the country 's main reform party threatened to boycott the elections over the ban .
The unelected overseeing body of clerics and jurists Sunday rejected all but six presidential hopefuls .
Last year , hard-liners took control of Iran 's parliament after the Guardian Council disqualified more than 2,400 reformists , including 80 incumbents , from running for office .
Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul says he is heading to Luxembourg to open membership talks with the European Union .
Mr. Gul spoke to reporters in Ankara just hours after Turkish officials received a framework agreement for the negotiations from EU foreign ministers .
The EU ministers resolved differences over the document after Austria lifted its objection to offering Turkey full membership in the bloc .
Earlier Monday , Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice discussed the EU bid by telephone .
Turkey would be the first country with a majority Muslim population to join the European Union .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw had warned failure to allow Turkey into the bloc could damage relations between Islamic and Christian countries .
U.S. automaker General Motors says it has reached a deal with its main union to offer an early retirement program for its hourly workers .
General Motors says the move is part of a plan to eliminate 30,000 jobs by 2008 .
It is also planning to shut down 12 factories by that time .
Under the plan , $ 35,000 will be offered to eligible workers from GM and its former parts subsidiary , Delphi Corporation .
Another 5,000 workers who are not eligible for the plan will be able to return to GM .
GM says it lost $ 10.6 billion in 2005 .
The automaker 's share of the U.S. market has declined since consumers stopped buying its profitable SUVs and other large vehicles due to soaring gas prices .
South African President Thabo Mbeki is to hold further talks with his Ivorian counterpart Laurent Gbagbo Monday to help renew peace efforts in the west African nation .
The talks come at the end of a four-day trip to Ivory Coast , where Mr. Mbeki also met with other government officials and rebel leader Guillaume Soro .
Sunday , Mr. Mbeki said South African mediators are readying suggestions to help revive a stalled peace process .
The rebels want President Gbagbo to resign , saying he has failed to implement peace deals ending a civil war last year .
President Gbagbo says rebels should also respect the agreements , which include disarming fighters .
Meantime , the top United Nations envoy to Ivory Coast , Albert Tevoedjre , has resigned , saying his efforts were no longer making progress .
The top diplomats of Cuba and Mexico met Thursday in Havana in an effort to improve relations between the two countries .
Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque hosted his Mexican counterpart , Patricia Espinosa , in the Cuban capital .
Espinosa said she hoped the meetings with top officials of new Cuban President Raul Castro 's administration would improve ties , which suffered under both nations ' previous administrations .
Mexico and Cuba had maintained good diplomatic relations until former Mexican President Vicente Fox came into office .
Mr. Fox and former Cuban President Fidel Castro publicly criticized each other and the countries ' diplomatic ties began to unravel .
Perez Roque expressed hope that Thursday 's meeting would mark " a new chapter " of cooperation between the two countries .
Officials say Mexican President Felipe Calderon wants warmer ties with Cuba .
The six Arab states of the Gulf Cooperation Council say they plan to seek a shared nuclear program for peaceful purposes .
In a statement Sunday , the six gulf Arab states said the region has a right to possess nuclear technology that is in accordance with international standards .
Ending a two-day summit in Saudi Arabia , the group commissioned a study to develop a shared nuclear energy program .
Saudi Arabia 's Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal told reporters such a program would not be a threat to anyone , and will be developed openly .
The six Arab states called for a peaceful settlement of the crisis over Iran 's disputed nuclear program .
They also said Israel should cooperate with international bodies over its nuclear facilities .
Formed in 1981 , the Gulf Cooperation Council includes Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Bahrain , Qatar , Oman and the United Arab Emirates .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld came under tough questioning Wednesday from troops in northern Kuwait preparing to deploy to Iraq .
In prepared remarks , Mr. Rumsfeld urged the estimated 2,000 troops to discount critics of the war in Iraq .
But in the question and answer period afterward , hundreds of troops cheered when one soldier asked about a shortage of vehicle armor .
The soldier said troops must reinforce their vehicles with scrap metal dug up from local landfills .
Mr. Rumsfeld replied " you go to war with the army you have , not the one you might want . "
He said the Army is pushing manufacturers to produce vehicle armor as fast as possible .
Other questions concerned the equipment given to reserve units , and plans for U.S. forces in Iraq beyond January 30 , when Iraq is scheduled to hold its first free elections .
Chinese officials say at least 27 workers are confirmed dead after a gas explosion tore through a coal mine in China 's northwest Shaanxi province .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says 39 miners were working at the Wayaobao mine in Zichang county when the blast happened Saturday .
Five workers remain missing .
Seven miners escaped with minor injuries .
China 's mines are the world 's deadliest .
Thousands of workers are killed each year in fires , explosions , floods and cave-ins , despite government efforts to improve safety .
OF two Writers one was brilliant but indolent ; the other though dull , industrious .
They set out for the goal of fame with equal opportunities .
Before they died the brilliant one was detected in seventy languages as the author of but two or three books of fiction and poetry , while the other was honoured in the Bureau of Statistics of his native land as the compiler of sixteen volumes of tabulated information relating to the domestic hog .
Prosecutors in the Netherlands have filed new charges against a Dutch-born Islamic extremist who was convicted of killing filmmaker Theo van Gogh .
Mohammed Bouyeri , 27 , and 12 other defendants appeared in a Dutch court Tuesday to face charges of membership in a terrorist movement authorities have called the " Hofstad Group . "
The 12 defendants were arrested shortly after Van Gogh 's killing .
Lawyers for Bouyeri say the prosecution wants to punish their client further , adding that he has already received the maximum sentence of life in prison .
The new charges carry a maximum 15-year prison term .
Dutch authorities believe Van Gogh 's murder was a response to his criticism of Islam and its treatment of women in his film " Submission . "
The President of Bosnia and Herzegovina says the Bosnian people are committed to taking back ownership of the country from the United Nations .
Addressing the U.N. General Assembly Thursday , Ivo Jovic described Bosnia as a non-functional structure left to the Bosnian people by the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords .
He said Bosnian Serbs , Muslims , and Croats are committed to the highest standards of human and civil rights .
President Jovic said Bosnia belongs to the European family of nations and can be a factor of stability in the Balkans .
The 1995 peace accords , which ended the war in the former Yugoslavia , split Bosnia into a Serb Republic and a Muslim-Croat Federation .
It is administered by a U.N. representative appointed by the Security Council .
TWO Game Cocks , having fought a battle , the defeated one skulked away and hid , but the victor mounted a wall and crowed lustily .
This attracted the attention of a hawk , who said :
" Behold ! how pride goeth before a fall . "
So he swooped down upon the boasting bird and was about to destroy him , when the vanquished Cock came out of his hiding-place , and between the two the Hawk was calamitously defeated .
A Lion used to prowl about a field in which Four Oxen used to dwell .
Many a time he tried to attack them ; but whenever he came near they turned their tails to one another , so that whichever way he approached them he was met by the horns of one of them .
At last , however , they fell a-quarrelling among themselves , and each went off to pasture alone in a separate corner of the field .
Then the Lion attacked them one by one and soon made an end of all four .
United we stand , divided we fall .
The United Nations mission in Congo says it has spotted fresh camps and well-equipped soldiers it believes are from Rwanda 's armed forces .
A mission spokesman says the fighters were sighted in new aerial photographs taken in eastern Congo .
Wednesday , U.N. officials in Congo reported sighting 100 fighters believed to be Rwandan troops .
Rwanda 's government has refused to confirm or deny sending its troops into Democratic Republic of Congo .
Rwandan President Paul Kagame has said any invasion into Congo would target Rwandan Hutu rebels and not Congolese forces .
He has blamed the Congolese government and the United Nations for failing to disarm Hutu militiamen who fled across the border after perpetrating Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
The U.N. Security Council is due to hold an emergency session Thursday to discuss the crisis .
The United States and the European Union are calling on Congo and Rwanda to resolve the situation diplomatically .
African leaders and French President Jacques Chirac have opened a two-day summit focusing on problems faced by African youth and on the continent 's political troubles .
Heads of state and government officials from at least 35 African countries attended the opening of the summit Saturday in Mali 's capital , Bamako .
Participants were expected to address the high unemployment rates among Africans under age 30 .
The conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region and the faltering peace process in Ivory Coast were also likely to top the agenda .
France has 4,000 soldiers in Ivory Coast , alongside a 7,000-member United Nations peacekeeping force .
Observers say a number of other issues sensitive to Africans are likely to be discussed on the sidelines of the summit .
Among them are French plans to tighten immigration legislation .
The Organization of American States is trying to elect a new secretary general .
Several rounds of voting have ended in a tie between candidates from Chile and Mexico .
Panama 's foreign minister says Chilean Interior Minister Jose Miguel Insulza and Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez received 17 votes each during five rounds of voting .
Eighteen votes are needed for a win .
OAS diplomats recessed for consultations earlier Monday after the first three rounds of voting at the organization 's Washington headquarters .
They are again taking a short break .
The two men are running to succeed Miguel Angel Rodriguez , who abruptly resigned in October after only two weeks on the job because of corruption charges in his native Costa Rica .
A third candidate with strong U.S. backing , former El Salvador president Francisco Flores , dropped out of the race last Friday .
Hong Kong health officials say a nine-month old girl has tested positive for a mild strain of the bird flu virus .
Officials said Tuesday that it was most likely the baby was infected when she was taken to a food market that sold live poultry .
Doctors have isolated the baby at a local hospital , but say her condition is not that serious .
The head of Hong Kong 's Center for Health Protection , Thomas Tsang , says the baby 's case is the third time that the H9N2 strain of bird flu has been detected in humans .
Bird flu has many subtypes .
The more dangerous H5N1 strain of the virus has killed more than 160 people since 2003 .
Bird flu first appeared in Hong Kong in 1997 .
The virus killed six people and led to the slaughter of more than a million birds .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian says he will make an important policy statement in his National Day address on Oct. 10 , aimed at soothing tensions with China .
Mr. Chen told a visiting Japanese delegation Monday that his address would be positive and constructive .
He gave no further details , but said he hoped the message would help narrow the gap between Beijing and Taipei .
Mr. Chen has said he wants to revise Taiwan 's constitution , a move China has criticized as a dangerous step towards formal independence .
The mainland has threatened to use force to crush any moves towards separatism .
Normalization talks between the two sides have been frozen since 1999 , when Mr. Chen 's predecessor , President Lee Teng-hui , defined bilateral relations as being between two states .
The head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency says he hopes to be able to go to North Korea to discuss resuming inspections of its nuclear facilities .
Mohamed ElBaradei made the comment after giving a speech Saturday in Germany .
He said North Korea has not invited him to visit , but that he still hopes to go .
Last year , Pyongyang indicated it might be willing to invite officials from the International Atomic Energy Agency , possibly including ElBaradei , under certain conditions .
Six-party talks to discuss North Korea 's nuclear intentions have been deadlocked for months .
North Korea blames the United States for the impasse .
Earlier Saturday , Pyongyang said again it would be willing to return to the talks if the United States drops its economic sanctions against the North .
Washington has called on North Korea to return to the talks without preconditions .
The sales manager was wrapping up her pep talk to new staff members .
" Just remember this , " she said .
" Always be sincere , whether you mean it or not . "
The Rwandan army says it has arrested the brother of the former army chief of staff on charges of " destabilization . "
Lieutenant Colonel Rugigana Ngabo is the brother of General Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa , who was chief of staff until 2001 and went into exile in South Africa in February .
The army said Ngabo was arrested Friday arrest had nothing to do with his relationship to Nyamwasa .
Military officials said they are still investigating Ngabo 's activities .
Nyamwasa is a leading critic of Rwandan President Paul Kagame .
The country 's chief prosecutor accused Nyamwasa and the other officer of being involved in three grenade attacks in the capital , Kigali , in February .
Two people were killed and 30 others were wounded .
He denies any involvement .
A newspaper quotes a U.S. Army official as saying the military has made a " mediocre " effort in Iraq , and remains in peril of losing the war .
The Washington Post Saturday printed excerpts from an essay by Major Isaiah Wilson , who served as an Army historian of the campaign and war planner in Iraq .
It quotes Major Wilson as saying the U.S. military did not have a formal plan for stabilizing the country after toppling Saddam Hussein .
The major says U.S. forces lost their dominance in Iraq a few months after Saddam 's overthrow , and that the Army still does not recognize that it is fighting what he calls a " war of rebellion . "
The Wilson essay has been delivered at several academic conferences but remains unpublished .
In his recent memoir , Retired Army General Tommy Franks said a post-war plan for Iraq did exist , and expressed confidence in the plan .
The United States government has frozen the assets of four people and two companies that allegedly have ties to a suspected Colombian drug kingpin .
The U.S. Treasury announced Tuesday it has taken financial sanctions against the parents of accused drug trafficker Juan Carlos Ramirez , two of his business associates and two companies he founded .
A Treasury news release says Ramirez 's parents , along with Jorge Rodrigo Salinas and Edgar Marina Otalora , operated a Colombian pharmaceutical distribution company Ramirez built with his alleged narcotics proceeds .
The Treasury also accused Ramirez of using a Colombian holding company for keeping real estate and other assets while the U.S. investigated his finances .
Ramirez faces federal indictments on drug trafficking charges in the United States .
He is allegedly one of the leaders of Colombia 's Norte del Valle drug cartel .
Authorities say the cartel has exported about 500 metric tons of cocaine to the U.S. since 1990 .
Former president Bill Clinton has criticized the U.S.-led war in Iraq as a " big mistake , " saying officials failed to plan for what would follow the ouster of Saddam Hussein .
Speaking to students at the American University in Dubai , Mr. Clinton said it is a good thing that Saddam is gone , but he does n't agree with what was done .
He said U.S. officials made several errors , such as not sending enough troops and dismantling Iraq 's authority structure .
Mr. Clinton added that U.S.-led forces failed to secure the country 's borders , allowing foreign terrorists to enter Iraq .
The Bush administration in recent days has defended the war , noting that many current critics had warned that Saddam was a threat before the war started .
Tuesday , Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said , Mr. Clinton , as president , had warned that Saddam was planning to use weapons of mass destruction .
Detained Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has requested a meeting with the chief of the country 's ruling military .
The Nobel peace laureate wrote a letter to the military government on November 11 asking to meet reclusive Senior General Than Shwe .
On Sunday , U.S. President Barack Obama offered Burma the prospect of better ties with Washington if it pursues democratic reform and frees political prisoners , including Aung San Suu Kyi .
Last month the opposition leader met with a minister from the ruling regime , and in September she made a formal offer to the government to help negotiate with Western countries to lift sanctions .
Aung San Suu Kyi has been under some sort of detention for 14 of the last 20 years .
A roadside bomb has killed five people in southern Afghanistan , including four children .
The other victim was a woman .
Local officials in Kandahar province say the blast occurred in the Spin Boldak district Friday as the five were on their way home from a shrine .
Afghan civilians have increasingly been caught in the middle as violence rises amid an influx of U.S. and other foreign forces fighting the Taliban .
A United Nations report this week said the number of civilians killed in war-related violence reached its highest level last year since the U.S.-led invasion in 2001 .
In a separate development , a rocket hit the central part of the capital Kabul Friday , near Western embassies .
Police rushed to the scene , but no other information was immediately available .
The Canadian government and U.S. philanthropist Bill Gates have announced a multimillion-dollar initiative to combat the AIDS virus .
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Gates announced the Canadian HIV Vaccine Initiative in Ottawa , Canada 's capital , Tuesday .
Mr. Harper says the Canadian government will contribute about $ 95 million and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is expected to contribute about $ 24 million .
The money will be used to build a new research facility in Canada that will focus on producing a vaccine to help fight HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
The United Nations estimates close to three million people died from AIDS in 2006 .
Forbes magazine says Bill Gates , the chairman of Microsoft , is the world 's richest man , with a fortune estimated at $ 53 billion .
DD Acquisition Corp. , a partnership of Unicorp Canada Corp. 's Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd. , extended to Nov. 20 its $ 45-a-share offer for all Dunkin' Donuts Inc. shares outstanding .
The offer , which was due to expire yesterday , is conditional on 50.1 % of Dunkin' common shares , on a fully diluted basis , being tendered and on the withdrawal of the company 's poison pill rights plan .
DD Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin 's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans , which it claims were put in place to deter bidders .
DD Acquisition said 2.2 million shares , or about 38.5 % of the shares outstanding , have been tendered under its offer .
The partners said they already hold 15 % of all shares outstanding .
Dunkin' has set Nov. 10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids .
DD Acquisition said the extension is to allow this process to be completed .
Dunkin' is based in Randolph , Mass.
Cara , a food services chain operator and Unicorp , a holding company , are based in Toronto .
Authorities in India say at least 17 policemen were killed Saturday when Maoist rebels blew up their bus in northern India .
Police officials say rebels detonated a landmine as the police bus approached a bridge in India 's northern state of Uttar Pradesh .
Maoist rebels , who claim to be fighting for the rights of landless peasants , operate in southern and eastern India .
They often attack the police through ambushes and landmines .
They are also active in Nepal , which borders both Uttar Pradesh and neighboring Bihar state .
Senegal says its security forces have conducted " minimal " acts of torture , but says the country is and always has been committed to investigating and prosecuting such acts .
Responding to a report by Amnesty International , government spokesman Moustapha Guirassy said Thursday that Senegal respects the rule of law and works to preserve and defend human rights .
In its report , the rights group said 12 years of research showed that Senegal 's security forces have electrocuted , burned , beaten , and asphyxiated prisoners .
Researcher Salvatore Sagues said at least six prisoners have died in Senegalese custody in the last three years .
He said that due to a requirement for government permission , cases against police and soldiers are rarely prosecuted .
Guirassy Thursday denied there is impunity for officers .
He said prosecutions must proceed slowly while a thorough investigation is made .
European Union foreign ministers are meeting in Brussels to discuss support for an emerging Palestinian unity government that could replace the current Hamas-led one .
The ministers Friday are to debate whether to support a Palestinian plan to form a new government with the ruling Hamas movement and President Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah party .
Finland 's foreign minister , Erkki Tuomioja , says the EU should view the new Palestinian government as an opportunity to renew the Middle East peace process .
Finland holds the rotating EU presidency .
The European Union and the United States cut off aid to the Hamas-led government because it refuses to recognize Israel , renounce violence and accept past peace accords .
Washington has cautioned against lifting those restrictions in the absence of details on the policies of the new unity government .
President Bush says U.S. and Iraqi forces have delivered justice to the most wanted terrorist in Iraq - Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
Mr. Bush said at the White House that Zarqawi will never murder again , and that his death is a severe blow to al-Qaida .
The president said Zarqawi personally led a campaign of beheadings , killings , and suicide attacks .
However , Mr. Bush warned that the terrorists will try to continue without Zarqawi , and vowed that the U.S. mission in Iraq will continue .
The European Union and several of its member states have congratulated Viktor Yushchenko on his victory in the Ukrainian presidential election .
In a letter to Mr. Yushchenko Tuesday , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder expressed optimism that Ukraine will continue what he called its transition toward the rule of law and a market economy .
Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus congratulated Mr. Yushchenko in a telephone conversation .
In Paris , the foreign ministry said France and its European Union partners are determined to support democracy and modernization in Ukraine .
The EU 's Dutch presidency , meanwhile , urged Ukrainians to work to maintain the country 's internal cohesion .
Meanwhile , Russia has questioned the objectivity of monitors for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe .
That organization characterized last month 's presidential election re-run as flawed , while saying that Sunday 's poll vastly improved upon the last vote .
Russia backed Mr. Yushchenko 's opponent
Prosecutors at the war crimes trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic have shown a videotape of the 1995 execution of six Bosnian Muslims allegedly by Serbian forces .
Prosecutor Geoffrey Nice said Wednesday a paramilitary unit of the Serbian Interior Minister called the " Scorpions " unit carried out the shootings .
The tape was shot during the massacre of more than 7,000 Muslim males at Srebrenica .
Mr. Milosevic is on trial at the Hague War Crimes Tribunal in connection with the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina in the 1990s .
Also Wednesday , a former mayor of the Bosnian town of Zvornik turned himself in to a war crimes court in Serbia .
Branko Grujic has been charged with helping deport more than 1,800 Muslims to Hungary and the killings of 15 Muslims in 1992 .
Russian President Vladimir Putin indirectly has criticized Britain for its refusal to extradite people who Russia considers terrorist suspects .
Mr. Putin spoke Wednesday in Moscow at a conference of European prosecutors .
He said that he does not understand why people who are accused of terrorism are not extradited , and instead are granted political asylum .
He did not specifically name Britain .
He referred only to what he called certain countries that grant asylum to people accused of terrorism .
Mr. Putin also warned European officials against using human rights issues to promote their own political interests .
Last month , Russia 's new prosecutor general said he is sending a team of specialists to Britain to deal with cases in which British courts have refused Russian extradition requests .
Russia for years has sought the extradition of business tycoon Boris Berezovsky and Chechen separatist envoy Akhmed Zakayev .
British authorities have granted both men political asylum .
TEE KITES of olden times , as well as the Swans , had the privilege of song .
But having heard the neigh of the horse , they were so enchanted with the sound , that they tried to imitate it ; and , in trying to neigh , they forgot how to sing .
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of present blessings .
Sri Lanka 's top defense officials say the military is ready for renewed conflict with Tamil Tiger rebels , but will not break a three-year cease-fire .
Sri Lankan Defense chief Admiral Daya Sandagiri told reporters Friday the military was ready to meet any rebel challenge .
He added however that the military did not expect the country to slip back to full-scale war .
At least 14 soldiers were killed earlier this week in two separate attacks in the minority Tamil-dominated north , the biggest breaches , so far , of a 2002 cease-fire .
The rebels have denied any involvement in the attacks .
The 2002 cease-fire halted two decades of civil war in the island nation , but it has come under increasing strain in recent days .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his nation wants to continue doing business with the United States , and would like to see more positive relations between the two countries .
Speaking to reporters in Caracas Thursday , Mr. Chavez said Venezuela wants to continue its oil sales to the United States - 1.5 million barrels per day - at the present level .
The Venezuelan president 's latest comments contrasted sharply with his recent accusations that the United States is backing a plot to assassinate him .
Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice has dismissed Mr. Chavez 's allegations are " ludicrous . "
She says the United States does not want bad relations with Venezuela , but does want assurances that Mr. Chavez is committed to democracy .
President Bush 's administration is concerned about the treatment of opposition groups and independent news media in Venezuela .
An apparent suicide car bomb attack has killed at least six people outside the Somali government 's seat of Baidoa .
Witnesses say between one and three suicide car bombers drove up to a checkpoint and exploded their vehicles Thursday .
They say the drivers were killed along with some passengers in the vehicles .
Local officials say several civilians were hurt in the blasts , and that authorities have taken at least one survivor into custody .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility .
Baidoa is the sole outpost held by Somalia 's weak transitional government , which is being challenged by Islamists who control the capital , Mogadishu , and much of the country 's south .
Islamist forces are positioned nearby but have not mounted any attacks on the town .
A Russian spaceship is set to dock at the International Space Station Saturday to deliver badly needed food to the two-man crew .
The crew members have been forced to ration their food , after U.S. and Russian space officials discovered their supplies were quickly running out .
The Russian cargo vessel is carrying more than two tons of food , water and equipment .
It is scheduled to arrive at the space station at around 23:30 UTC .
NASA officials say Russian cosmonaut Salizhan Sharipov and U.S. astronaut Leroy Chiao will be forced to return to Earth if the cargo vessel does not successfully dock at the station .
In addition to food , the vessel will be bringing the men Christmas presents from their family and friends .
Asian and Pacific nations have begun a disaster exercise to test preparations for a possible bird-flu pandemic .
Australia is coordinating Wednesday 's exercise with 21 members of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation group , testing how authorities would respond to a hypothetical outbreak in which a new form of bird-flu virus becomes a major threat to human life .
During the 24-hour exercise , governments are practicing how to coordinate information about managing a virus outbreak .
Indonesia and Vietnam already have suffered significant human losses from bird flu .
The World Health Organization is investigating the bird-flu deaths of seven members of one family in Indonesia , a " cluster " of infections that sounded an alarm about possible human-to-human transmission of the virus .
More than 120 people , most of them in Asia , have died of bird flu since late 2003 .
Foreigners have again become the targets of kidnappers in Iraq .
Iraqi officials in Balad , north of Baghdad , say six Iranian pilgrims were abducted Monday .
They say two women were released Tuesday , but the fate of the remaining four pilgrims is still not clear .
They were the second group of Shi'ite pilgrims targeted Monday .
Three British pilgrims were killed during a bus ambush south of the capital .
Meanwhile , Germany has called for the immediate release of one of its missing nationals .
Archaeologist Susanne Osthoff and her driver disappeared Friday .
The aid group , Christian Peacemaker Teams , confirms that four of its employees - said to be an American , a Briton and two Canadians - were kidnapped in Baghdad Saturday .
Elsewhere , the U.S. military reports that a roadside bomb blast killed two American soldiers north of Baghdad today .
Malawi 's constitutional court has stopped impeachment proceedings against President Bingu wa Mutharika , pending a review of the parliamentary guidelines on how to remove him .
The court 's ruling Wednesday comes after a private lawyer challenged the legality of the impeachment motion against the president .
He said Mr. Mutharika is arguing that the procedures , which were to begin Thursday , are unconstitutional and are not in accordance with the rules of natural justice .
Malawi 's parliament last week introduced the impeachment motion against Mr. Mutharika , charging him with misuse of public funds in setting up his own party .
Mr. Mutharika - a former economist - has won praise from donor nations and aid agencies for his efforts to adopt economic reforms and stamp out corruption .
Sunni Arab groups in Iraq are blaming Shi'ite-led security forces for the killing of 14 Sunni Arab men whose bodies were found Friday in Baghdad .
The Sunni Arab groups say Interior Ministry forces picked up the 14 men at a Baghdad mosque last month .
Major-General Hussein Ali Kamal of the Interior Ministry told the Associated Press that officials are investigating reports that the men were detained by government forces .
The discovery of the bodies threatens to further polarize Iraq 's Sunni Arab , Kurdish and majority Shi'ite communities .
Politicians from the three groups are holding talks on forming a national unity government following the elections in December .
The United States is hoping the formation of a unity government will help curb the insurgency in Iraq .
Champion points leader Fernando Alonso has driven his Renault for the third fastest time in Friday 's first practice session for the Brazilian Grand Prix in Sao Paulo .
The Spaniard drove the Interlagos circuit at a time of 1:12.0872 .
The fastest time of the session was clocked by McLaren-Mercedes test driver Alexander Wurz of Austria .
Wurz completed the circuit with a time of 1:01.701 .
McLaren-Mercedes driver Kimi Raikkonen of Finland posted the fifth best time of the session , 0.193 seconds slower than Alonso .
Raikkonen is second in the championship point standings .
He trails Alonso 85 to 111 .
Realistically , the series championship is out of his reach .
With only two races remaining in the season after Sunday , Alonso needs just one third-place finish to become the first champion other than Ferrari 's Michael Schumacher of Germany since 1999 .
At 21 years old , Alonso would become the youngest series champion ever .
IN THE WINTERTIME , a Dog curled up in as small a space as possible on account of the cold , determined to make himself a house .
However when the summer returned again , he lay asleep stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a great size .
Now he considered that it would be neither an easy nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would accommodate him .
Authorities in northwestern Pakistan say a minibus - hit by falling rock - has plunged into a ravine , killing 15 people .
Four others survived with injuries .
The authorities say the driver to lost control of the bus Sunday on the road to Mansehra from Balakot , a town devastated by last year 's earthquake .
Landslides are common in the mountainous region , where the October 8 quake last year killed more than 73,000 people .
Kyrgyzstan 's interim government has announced the country will hold parliamentary elections on October 10 .
President Roza Otunbayeva signed a decree Tuesday , ordering the interim government to take measures to uphold law and order and provide security ahead of the vote .
Voters overwhelmingly endorsed a new constitution in a June referendum , clearing the way for the October elections .
Officials said more than 90 percent of voters backed the measure that gives greater power to the parliament .
The interim government has struggled to maintain stability since former president Kurmanbek Bakiyev was deposed in a deadly April uprising .
A wave of ethnic clashes in June killed more than 350 people in the country 's south .
Interim leader Roza Otunbayeva is set to serve as president until the end of 2011 .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has said in an interview with the Financial Times that he will go ahead with plans to build a natural gas pipeline to Iran , despite U.S. pressure to scrap the project .
In an article published Thursday , Mr. Musharraf tells the newspaper that Pakistan needs the pipeline to provide sufficient energy for industrial growth and foreign investment .
He says no country can order Pakistan to abandon the pipeline .
But Mr. Musharraf also says that anyone who wants the Iran pipeline stopped should pay compensation , leaving open the possibility Washington could compensate Pakistan for giving up the plan .
Earlier this month , the United Sates said it opposes the building of a natural gas pipeline linking Iran with Pakistan and India .
The U.N. 's International Atomic Energy Agency has approved the formation of a $ 150 million nuclear fuel " bank " aimed at reducing the number countries seeking to produce nuclear fuel .
The IAEA 's action Friday was motivated by a $ 50 million pledge by U.S. billionaire investor Warren Buffett , who says the bank is an investment in a safer world .
The United States is among countries contributing to the fund .
The intent of the fuel bank is to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons by providing an alternative to countries producing their own nuclear fuel or buying it from other countries .
The nuclear fuel bank system is limited to countries in good standing with the energy watchdog agency .
Buffett told The New York Times the spread of nuclear weaponry is the number one problem facing society , and that the fuel bank helps lower the risks .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has criticized Paul the octopus , who gained fame by correctly predicting the outcome of eight World Cup matches .
The Iranian leader called Paul a symbol of decadence and decay in the Western world .
Mr. Ahmadinejad also said those who believe in a psychic octopus can not be leaders of nations like Iran " that aspire to human perfection . "
Iran 's state-run media said the president discussed the octopus during a speech to a youth festival in Tehran on Friday .
Paul lives at the Oberhausen Sea Life Center in Germany .
The eight-legged sea creature picked the outcome of this year 's World Cup matches in South Africa by choosing to eat from a box of mussels labeled with the flag of the winning team .
Paul correctly predicted the winner of all seven of Germany 's matches .
He also picked Spain to defeat the Netherlands in the final .
Colombia has apologized to Ecuador for its warplanes ' violating Ecuador 's airspace Saturday .
President Alvaro Uribe sent a letter to officials in Ecuador Thursday , saying the intrusion had been an accident .
An Ecuadorian government spokesman said the incident prompted Quito to put its own war planes on a alert .
The government had also threatened to withdraw its ambassador to Colombia .
Ecuador said the Colombian war planes also fired on targets in Ecuadorian territory .
Ecuador has long expressed concern that violence from Colombia 's four-decade war against leftist rebels could spill across their lengthy border .
The government has said its policy is to avoid involvement in Colombia 's civil conflict .
A U.S. delegation crossed the heavily-guarded border from South Korea into North Korea Tuesday , for talks on Pyongyang 's overdue declaration of its nuclear activities .
The team , led by Sung Kim - the top U.S. State Department expert on the Koreas - will stay in North Korea for three days to discuss the North 's nuclear declaration and how to verify it .
Six-country talks on ending the North 's nuclear activities have been stalled for months , after Pyongyang missed a December 31 deadline to give a declaration of its nuclear programs in return for diplomatic concessions and energy aid .
The six-party agreement was hammered out among the two Koreas , the United States , Japan , Russia and China .
NATO says a heavily armed Taliban commander has been killed in a shootout at a mosque in eastern Afghanistan .
NATO officials say international and Afghan forces went Saturday to a compound in Wardak province to look for the commander , who fled to a nearby mosque as troops approached .
Security forces surrounded the mosque and ordered him to surrender .
But he refused to do so and opened fire as the shootout started .
Officials say the Taliban commander was armed with grenades and rounds of ammunition .
He was wanted for buying weapons and components for explosive devices , and for helping plan attacks .
NATO also says a U.S. soldier died Friday from a roadside bomb in southern Afghanistan .
In the Afghan capital , Kabul , a rocket landed Saturday near the Afghan Defense ministry .
It was unclear if there were casualties .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is in Bahrain to meet with regional officials , after taking an unannounced one-day trip to Iraq Friday .
During her visit to Baghdad and Mosul , Ms. Rice urged Iraqi citizens to put sectarian differences aside ahead of the December 15 parliamentary election .
Ms. Rice also held talks with Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari and Sunni leaders .
She called for greater participation in the election , saying the future of Iraq is in many ways key to the future of the Middle East .
Elsewhere in Baghdad , gunmen fired on the compound of the Embassy of Oman , killing two people .
Meanwhile , a statement from ousted dictator Saddam Hussein 's Baath party says top military aide , Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri , is dead .
There has been no independent confirmation .
Police say suspected Taliban militants have killed a pro-government tribal leader in Pakistan 's northwest .
The tribal leader was shot and killed Wednesday in Shangla district near Swat Valley .
The Pakistani military launched an offensive in the region against the Taliban about three months ago , after the collapse of a peace deal to impose strict Islamic law ( Sharia ) in Swat Valley .
Militants have retaliated by stepping up attacks , including a suicide bombing last month in Lahore that killed a prominent Islamic cleric , Sarfraz Naeemi , who supported the military crackdown on the Taliban .
Elsewhere in the northwest , police say a Shi'ite Muslim lawyer was wounded and his guard killed when a bomb ripped through the parking area of a court in the city of Dera Ismail Khan , in North West Frontier Province , Wednesday .
China says the death toll from an earthquake that hit a Tibetan region in the country 's west last month has risen to 2,698 .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says another 270 people remain missing after the April 14 quake in Qinghai province .
The new death toll is a significant increase from the previous figure of around 2,200 fatalities reported by Chinese authorities in late April .
The 6.9 magnitude quake flattened thousands of homes in Qinghai 's ethnically-Tibetan Yushu county .
The remote location posed logistical difficulties for rescuers .
Xinhua quotes Qinghai Vice Governor Zhang Guangrong as saying the dead include 199 students .
Tropical Storm Alpha , following on the heels of brutal Hurricane Wilma , has caused at least 12 deaths in Haiti .
Officials announced the deaths Tuesday , as Alpha weakened into a tropical depression and drifted out to sea .
Alpha 's rains caused floods and mudslides in Haiti that cut off roads and swept houses and people away .
In addition to the 12 deaths , officials say an uncertain number of people are missing .
They also predict the death toll could rise as emergency workers search remote areas .
Alpha became the 22nd named storm of 2005 , which is now the most prolific hurricane season on record .
Earlier this month , the island of Hispaniola bore the assault from Hurricane Wilma .
Hundreds of Afghan security troops backed by U.S. forces have killed at least 32 suspected Taleban rebels in a district capital of Kandahar province .
Rebels overran the Mian Nishin district last week , taking 31 police hostage and later killing eight of them .
Militants say they have released the remaining 23 hostages .
Before dawn Tuesday , some 400 Afghan troops entered the area , capturing 15 suspected militants and killing at least 11 others .
U.S. airstrikes in the area killed some 21 other suspected militants .
Elsewhere in Kandahar province , United Nations and Afghan officials say militants killed an Afghan election worker in an ambush .
It was the second killing of an election worker ahead of the September parliamentary election .
Billboard magazine lists the band Chicago as the leading singles chart group of the 1970s .
With more than 21 million-selling albums , Chicago has secured a place in music history .
With its legendary horn section and distinctive vocals , Chicago remains one of the longest-running and most-successful pop / rock groups .
VOA 's Larry London had the opportunity to talk with founder and lead singer Robert Lamm , and trumpet player Lee Loughnane at Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts in Vienna , Virginia .
The Afghan defense ministry says a top Taleban commander and several of his fighters have been killed in clashes with U.S.-led coalition forces in southern Afghanistan .
The ministry says the fighting , which also involved air support , took place early Thursday in Helmand province - a known Taleban stronghold .
It identified the dead commander , Mullah Brader , as a relative and close associate of Taleban chief Mullah Omar .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan has not commented .
Elsewhere in southern Afghanistan , one NATO soldier and an Afghan interpreter were killed while on patrol in the insurgency-hit southern part of the country
Thursday .
A NATO statement said two other soldiers were wounded .
It did not give details of the incident .
Taiwan 's ruling party is hoping to win a huge upset in presidential elections on Saturday just weeks after the opposition candidate seemed poised to easily win .
The wide lead by opposition candidate Ma Ying-jeou over ruling party challenger Frank Hsieh has narrowed since China 's crackdown on Tibet .
Ma , who heads the Nationalist Party , has promised to improve relations with China and establish a common market with Taiwan 's communist neighbor .
Hsieh , of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party , says China views Taiwan as it does Tibet and has warned that the island 's democracy could be in jeopardy if Ma is elected .
Taiwan and China split amid a civil war in 1949 , but Beijing still considers the island part of its territory and has threatened military force to reclaim it .
Ma has accused Hsieh of exploiting the Tibet issue for political gain .
Afghan officials say at least 12 civilian construction workers have been killed in airstrikes by U.S.-led coalition forces in eastern Afghanistan ..
The governor of eastern Nuristan province , Tamin Nuristani , says the workers were sleeping in tents when the attack happened earlier this week .
He says U.S. military officials launched the airstrikes after receiving information that Taliban insurgents were in the the area .
Coalition officials have not confirmed that any airstrikes took place , but say they are looking into the incident .
The construction workers were building a road in the remote region .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has repeatedly pleaded with NATO and coalition troops to use more caution before conducting airstrikes , which have killed a number of civilians .
Two U.S. senators are calling for an investigation into a suspected terrorist 's claims that he was physically abused while he was held in secret CIA prisons .
Democrat Carl Levin and Republican Lindsey Graham observed the March 10 military hearing at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed .
The suspected al-Qaida operative confessed to planning the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States , and several other terrorist plots .
During the hearing , Mohammed issued a written statement alleging he had been mistreated before he was transferred to Guantanamo .
In a joint statement issued Friday , Levin and Graham said it " would reflect poorly " on the United States if Mohammed 's allegations were not investigated .
Military officials in charge of the hearing say the allegations were being submitted to the appropriate authorities .
Russia 's industrial output plunged nearly 20 percent in January from December , as the country experienced its worst economic slump in a decade .
Figures released Monday by the federal statistics service indicated a month-to-month drop in industrial output of 19.9 percent .
The largest slumps were recorded in steel , cement and automobile production as worldwide demand eroded for cars , trucks and construction material .
Russia 's economy has also been hit by the fall in the price of oil .
Economists are also worried by massive capital amounts of investment leaving the country .
The government has pledged more than $ 200 billion to shore up Russia 's economy since the world financial turmoil spread in September .
Burma 's military rulers announced plans Thursday to hold a gem auction in October , despite international calls to boycott the sale .
Officials say jade , pearls , and precious gems will be among the lots on sale at the auction .
Burma 's last gem auction was held in June , just one month after Cyclone Nargis swept across the country 's south , leaving more than 130,000 people dead or missing .
Burma is one of the main producers of jade and other gems , as well as the source of up to 90 percent of the world 's rubies .
Gem auctions are a major revenue earner for Burma 's military government .
Jewelry companies and human rights groups have urged buyers to boycott Burmese gems to protest rights violations in the country .
In July , the United States passed legislation banning the import of gems from Burma through third-party countries .
Vietnam and the United States have signed an agreement that will allow U.S. companies to work in Vietnam to develop atomic power for energy .
US Ambassador Michael Michalak described Tuesday 's agreement as an important moment in bilateral relations between the two nations , adding that it is a key step in advancing non-proliferation goals .
In November , Vietnam approved plans to build the country 's first two nuclear power plants in the south central province of Ninh Thuan .
Media reports say Vietnam signed a deal with a Russian firm to build the first plant .
This year marks the 15th anniversary of the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and Vietnam , following the Vietnam War .
Fresh fighting broke out early Saturday in northeastern Burma after days of clashes between government troops and ethnic rebels .
Thousands of people have fled to the border town of Nansan in China 's Yunnan province this month to escape clashes in Kokang in Burma 's Shan state , following the deployment of government troops in the area .
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says up to 30,000 people have fled into China .
The Chinese Red Cross told the Chinese Daily newspaper that one person was killed and several were injured Friday when someone threw a bomb across the Chinese border .
China has called on Burma to maintain stability in the border region and urged more measures to protect the security and legal rights of Chinese citizens there .
South Koreans are now counting the days to their country 's historic first astronaut in space , set to launch aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket on 8 April .
The mission is full of landmarks : it will be the first time a South Korean woman has headed into orbit , and it will also be the first time that " kimchi " - that spicy , garlicky cabbage dish that epitomizes South Korea - will be served at the zero-gravity dinner table .
VOA Seoul Correspondent Kurt Achin headed to the high-tech kitchen where kimchi was getting a pre-launch makeover .
New data shows the recession has eased in Europe , where the two largest economies , Germany and France , returned to growth after a period of decline .
Some analysts say the new figures may show the worst of the recession has passed .
For the 16 nations that use the euro , the sum of all the goods and services produced shrank by 0.1 percent in April , May and June .
Those gross domestic product figures are a significant improvement over the previous quarter , and better than most economists had predicted .
The GDP in Germany and France grew 0.3 percent in the second quarter , a sharp improvement over the declines registered in the early months of the year .
Afghanistan 's interior ministry says suspected Taleban insurgents have ambushed a police convoy in southern Helmand province , killing 19 policemen .
A ministry spokesman said a senior provincial police official , Amanullah Khan , was among the dead .
He said four officers were wounded in the attack late Monday and at least five others are missing .
The convoy was traveling along a remote mountain road when dozens of militants ambushed it , triggering a gunbattle that lasted for several hours .
The spokesman blamed the attack on " enemies of peace , " a term frequently used by Afghan officials to refer to Taleban rebels .
Earlier Monday , insurgents carried out two suicide bombings in the nearby southern city of Kandahar .
Three people , including a former factional commander , Agha Shah , were killed in one of the attacks .
The euro has hit an all-time high against the U.S. dollar , climbing to 1.2940 in late trading Friday .
The rise of the 12-nation currency surpasses the previous record of 1.2927 in February of this year .
Traders say they were struck by the dollar 's inability to sustain a rally earlier Friday following the release of a strong U.S. employment report .
Analysts say the euro 's increase was due to concerns over the U.S. trade and federal budget deficits , as well the high price of oil .
French President Jacques Chirac said he was concerned with the downward trend of the dollar and called for action by the European Central Bank .
A stronger euro makes European exports more expensive .
Diplomats from the United States , Japan and South Korea will meet in Seoul later this week to discuss restarting six-party talks on ending North Korea 's nuclear program .
South Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Song Min-soon will meet Saturday with Christopher Hill , the U.S. Ambassador to Seoul , and Kenichiro Sasae , the head of the Japanese Foreign Ministry 's Asia-Oceania bureau .
North Korea announced on February 10 that it had produced nuclear weapons and was withdrawing from negotiations with the three nations , plus China and Russia , to end its nuclear program .
But North Korean leader Kim Jong-il told a visiting Chinese diplomat this week that it will resume talks if conditions are right .
South Korea 's foreign minister said Wednesday that Pyongyang should return to the talks without setting any conditions .
Indonesian health officials say local tests confirm that a one-year-old girl who died recently was infected with the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization , her death would bring to 23 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the virus .
Meanwhile , in Hong Kong , authorities say a dead falcon has tested positive for the H5N1 strain .
Officials there have confirmed several cases of H5N1 in birds this year .
In Burma , state-run media say authorities have slaughtered more than 76,000 chickens and quails since the country 's first outbreak was reported this month .
Elsewhere , China confirmed that a 29-year-old woman in Shanghai died of bird flu .
The deadly form of bird flu has killed more than 100 people since 2003 , mostly in East Asia .
Police in Nepal have detained more than 20 demonstrators who were demanding the restoration of democracy in the Himalayan nation .
Some 200 human rights activists , lawyers , journalists and professors rallied in the capital , Kathmandu , Monday chanting slogans against King Gyanendra , who seized absolute power on February 1 .
Witnesses say a line of police officers blocked the protesters from entering a restricted zone , and when they tried to force their way through , police arrested about two dozen of them .
Student groups and political parties are among a number of organizations that have held protests against the king 's move .
The king says he needed to seize full political power to curb corruption and quell a communist insurgency that has claimed more than 11,500 lives .
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries says it will make another two million barrels of crude oil available to refiners each day .
The decision was expected , and was formally announced Tuesday in Vienna , where top OPEC officials have been discussing oil production and prices .
Some analysts say the gesture is largely symbolic because most OPEC member nations have been producing all the oil they can as demand and prices have hit new highs .
Only Saudi Arabia is thought to have significant unused capacity .
Some experts say high gasoline prices that have sparked protests in some European countries grow out of a shortage of refining capacity , rather than a lack of crude oil .
The U.S. State Department and the United Nations say they are seriously concerned about reports that Burma 's military junta has ordered the removal of a security detail at the home of detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
American officials say they are worried about the welfare of the Nobel laureate , who is under house arrest at her home in Rangoon .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan expressed similar thoughts and called on Burmese authorities to remember their responsibility to ensure Aung San Suu Kyi 's well being .
Members of Aung San Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy reported Thursday that the government has ordered the removal of NLD members who had been providing security and other assistance to the pro-democracy leader .
The junta also reportedly has said she will have reduced access to her personal physician .
The United Nations nuclear watchdog agency is preparing to decide on a resolution Saturday calling for Iran to be reported to the United Nations Security Council over its suspect nuclear program .
A vote in Vienna by the 35-nation board of the International Atomic Energy Agency was postponed from Friday .
The delay came after the United States opposed a last-minute move by Egypt to declare the entire Middle East a nuclear-free zone .
The move appeared aimed at pressuring Israel to give up its suspected nuclear arsenal .
Envoys familiar with the situation say France , Britain and Germany , the three nations that authored the resolution on Iran , were working overnight to resolve the dispute between Cairo and Washington .
Diplomats say a majority on the IAEA board appear ready to back the measure .
Western governments accuse Iran of seeking nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only .
A spokesman for Iraq 's interim government has rejected calls , mainly by Sunni and Kurdish groups , to postpone the country 's first national elections .
The political groups have demanded that the government delay the scheduled January 30 poll by at least six months because of ongoing violence .
Iraq 's majority Shi'ites have consistently rejected those demands .
Several political factions have called for a boycott of the elections , and various groups have expressed concern that fear of violence would discourage Iraqis from voting .
But a spokesman for Prime Minister Iyad Allawi says the Iraqi leader is not convinced that delaying the elections would increase participation .
Meanwhile , insurgent attacks continue in Iraq .
U.S. military officials say two soldiers were wounded Sunday when a car bomb blew up next to their convoy on a road leading to the Baghdad airport .
Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from surrounding island groups , the Tokelau Islands were made a British protectorate in 1889 .
They were transferred to New Zealand administration in 1925 .
Referenda held in 2006 and 2007 to change the status of the islands from that of a New Zealand territory to one of free association with New Zealand did not meet the needed threshold for approval .
The international police organization , Interpol , has issued wanted notices for 16 more suspects in connection with the killing of a Hamas leader in Dubai .
Monday 's announcement brought to 27 the total number of suspects named in the January assassination of Mahmoud al-Mabhouh .
Interpol says the notices were made at the request of Dubai authorities .
It says Dubai authorities have identified two teams of individuals linked to the murder .
The Interpol red notice allows Dubai to circulate its arrest warrant worldwide with the request that the wanted individuals be arrested and extradited for prosecution .
The suspects in the case carried false passports from Britain , Ireland , France , Germany and Australia .
Dubai authorities suspect Israel 's Mossad spy agency was responsible for the killing .
Israel has neither confirmed nor denied having a role .
Brazilian police say at least 16 people have been killed in a series of attacks on police stations and public buses in Rio de Janeiro .
Officials said gunmen stopped one bus on a highway in the city , robbed the passengers and then torched the vehicle .
They said at least six bodies were found on the charred bus .
Gunmen also opened fire on several police posts and buildings , killing two policemen .
Police said the motive for the apparently coordinated overnight attacks was not immediately clear .
Some officials said it may be linked to anti-drug efforts in the city .
Some 200 people in Sao Paulo died earlier this year in a series of attacks by criminal gangs .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says 15 militants along with an Afghan woman and two children were killed during a battle with insurgents in the south .
In a statement , the U.S.-led coalition said U.S.-led troops were raiding compounds suspected of housing bomb makers in Helmand province on Sunday when militants attacked them with heavy fire .
The statement said several militant fighters barricaded themselves inside a house on the compound and fired at coalition forces .
Coalition forces threw a grenade at the house , which collapsed .
Troops later recovered the bodies of an Afghan woman and two children , along with several militants and their weapons .
In eastern Afghanistan , NATO said two of its troops were killed and another wounded Monday , after a roadside bomb exploded .
No other details were available .
Malaysia , a middle-income country , has transformed itself since the 1970s from a producer of raw materials into an emerging multi-sector economy .
Under current Prime Minister NAJIB , Malaysia is attempting to achieve high-income status by 2020 and to move farther up the value-added production chain by attracting investments in Islamic finance , high technology industries , biotechnology , and services .
The NAJIB administration also is continuing efforts to boost domestic demand and reduce the economy 's dependence on exports .
Nevertheless , exports - particularly of electronics , oil and gas , palm oil and rubber - remain a significant driver of the economy .
As an oil and gas exporter , Malaysia has profited from higher world energy prices , although the rising cost of domestic gasoline and diesel fuel , combined with strained government finances , has forced Kuala Lumpur begin to reduce government subsidies .
The government is also trying to lessen its dependence on state oil producer Petronas , which supplies more than 40 % of government revenue .
The central bank maintains healthy foreign exchange reserves and its well-developed regulatory regime has limited Malaysia 's exposure to riskier financial instruments and the global financial crisis .
Nevertheless , decreasing worldwide demand for consumer goods hurt Malaysia 's exports and economic growth in 2009 , although both showed signs of recovery in 2010 .
In order to attract increased investment , NAJIB has raised possible revisions to the special economic and social preferences accorded to ethnic Malays under the New Economic Policy of 1970 , but he has encountered significant opposition , especially from Malay nationalists and other vested interests .
Heavy rains in Brazil have caused deadly mudslides that have killed at least seven people , mostly children .
Authorities say the victims lived in a shantytown in the industrial suburb of Sao Bernardo do Campo , near the city of Sao Paulo .
Torrential rains have lashed the Sao Paulo region since Tuesday .
A 37-year-old woman has become the 13th person in Egypt to die of the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Nadia Mohammed Abdel Hafez died in a hospital in Cairo early Friday .
Health officials initially reported that her condition was stable and that she was being treated with the drug Tamiflu .
The woman raised poultry in her home in the province of Fayoum , south of Cairo , where a teenage girl died of bird flu earlier this month .
Health officials announced separately Friday that a five-year-old boy has tested positive for bird flu .
He is the 22nd confirmed human case of bird flu in Egypt .
Egypt has become the largest cluster of human cases of bird flu outside of Asia , where the disease originated .
Cases have been discovered in 19 of Egypt 's 26 provinces .
Indonesia 's health ministry says a three-year-old boy with symptoms of bird flu has died , days after the virus killed his sister .
A health ministry official says the boy died Tuesday at a hospital in the West Java city of Bandung .
Medical tests are being carried out to see if the boy was infected with the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Samples from the two dead siblings have been sent to a World Health Organization laboratory in Hong Kong for more testing .
The toddler 's 13-year-old sister died Saturday , and a 15-year-old sister is being tested for the virus .
The official says the three siblings may have contracted avian flu through contact with dead chickens .
If they are confirmed to have died of bird flu , Indonesia 's death toll from the disease will rise to 14 .
The African Union is set to hold a meeting Thursday in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia , to consider sanctions against Togo .
International criticism against Togolese authorities has increased since the military installed Faure Gnassingbe as president to succeed his father , who died earlier this month .
Last week , the West African Economic Community imposed sanctions on Togo demanding the country restore constitutional rule .
Togo 's constitution had called for the speaker of parliament to succeed the late president and call a new election in two months .
On Monday , the Togolese parliament restored the original provision calling for elections within 60 days when a president dies - but decided to keep Mr. Gnassingbe as interim president .
However , the African Union , the European Union and the United States have called on Mr. Gnassingbe to step down immediately .
Poland says it will re-route plans for a major highway away from one of Europe 's last unspoiled wetlands .
Environment Minister Maciej Nowicki said Tuesday the new route is cheaper than the original plans and makes the highway just two kilometers longer .
He says he will ask the European Union to stop its lawsuit aimed at forcing Poland to cancel the highway .
Poland had originally planned to build its section of the Via Baltica on pillars through the Rospuda Valley - a pristine peat bog home to rare plants and eagles , wolves , and lynx .
The plans outraged environmentalists and brought legal action from the EU .
Residents of the northern town of Augustow are demanding a highway , saying heavy truck traffic is destroying their city .
The Via Baltica will link Poland with Finland .
State media in Sudan say a leader of the Darfur rebel group that attacked the capital earlier this month has been arrested .
The reports Thursday say authorities have captured Abdel Aziz Ashr of the rebel Justice and Equality Movement , JEM .
A state radio report says Ashr is the half-brother of top JEM leader Khalil Ibrahim .
There were no immediate details on where or when the arrest took place .
The rebel group launched an attack on Khartoum and the neighboring city of Omdurman on May 10 after traveling across hundreds of kilometers of desert .
Soldiers pushed back the rebels in fighting that killed more than 200 people .
The attack marked the first time rebels from Sudan 's western Darfur region reached the capital .
The government has offered a reward of $ 250,000 for information leading to the capture of JEM leader Ibrahim .
A strong earthquake that rattled southeastern Turkey Monday has injured at least 37 people while causing minor damage to buildings .
The Kandill Observatory in Istanbul says a preliminary estimate of the quake 's magnitude was 5.7 .
It was centered near the town of Karliova in Bingol province .
Turkish officials have sent rescue teams , tents and blankets to the area .
Earthquakes are frequent in Turkey , which sits atop a major tectonic faultline .
A powerful quake that hit northwestern Turkey in 1999 killed more than 17,000 people .
Bangladesh has raised the minimum wage for its garment industry workers following months of violent protests over low salaries and poor working conditions .
The 80-percent pay hike was announced Tuesday following an emergency meeting of the country 's wage board committee .
The increase raised the minimum monthly wage for garment workers from $ 25 to $ 43 .
Bangladesh has been the scene of massive protests by textile workers calling for higher pay .
Workers were demanding that the minimum salary be increased to $ 72 a month .
Textile factories accounted for 80 percent of Bangladesh 's annual export earnings last year , with many producing clothes for several global brands .
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina had criticized the country 's clothing manufacturers saying the wages were not only insufficient but " inhuman . "
Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki has ordered an inquiry into a major security breach at his country 's main airport .
Mr. Kibaki ordered the investigation Tuesday , one day after suspending the country 's chief police investigator , Joseph Kamau , and 10 other officials .
The breach involved two Armenian men who drew pistols on customs officials when asked to open their luggage at the airport last Thursday .
The men , known as the Artur brothers , were deported without being charged , prompting accusations that they had government protection .
Opposition lawmakers say the Armenians led a controversial police raid on Kenya 's Standard Media Group in March .
The British government has issued a protest note demanding an explanation for the airport incident .
Britain says it has concerns about the airport 's security .
Zimbabwe 's High Court has ruled that 64 suspected mercenaries may appeal their jail terms on convictions related to a coup plot in oil-rich Equatorial Guinea .
A court judge , Chenembiri Bhunu , granted their petition to appeal to Zimbabwe 's Supreme Court .
No date has been set .
The 64 men , mostly South Africans , were convicted in September on minor immigration and aviation charges .
Sentences ranged from 12 to 16 months in prison .
They were among 70 men arrested last March when their plane landed in Harare .
Zimbabwe accused the group of involvement in a plot to oust the president of Equatorial Guinea , Teodoro Obiang Nguema .
The defendants denied the charges , insisting they were headed to Congo to guard mining installations .
Last month , a court in Equatorial Guinea handed down stiff prison sentences to some 24 suspects convicted of involvement in the foiled plot .
Iraqi police say at least 13 people were killed when gunmen attacked a bus carrying workers to a U.S. base in Baquba Tuesday .
Police say the assailants riding in two cars blocked the bus and opened fire , killing the driver and nine workers .
Three other civilians were killed when the bus rammed their car .
Some 170 people have been killed in violence across Iraq in the past week , including at least 14 in a string of attacks Monday
The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Richard Myers , said Monday the recent wave attacks will not derail the drafting of an Iraqi constitution and the election of a new government later this year .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani said today the committee working to draft the constitution is making " good progress , " and that the document could be ready ahead of the August 15 deadline .
Pakistani officials say at least 16 people killed by Afghan forces this week were Pakistani civilians and not Taleban fighters as previously claimed .
Officials said some of the victims ' bodies have been returned to the Pakistani border town of Chaman for funerals .
Residents of Chaman said the victims were local villagers on their way to a festival when they were killed .
The governor of Afghanistan 's Kandahar province , where the incident took place late Tuesday , said a team of investigators was sent to the area .
Earlier , an Afghan commander had said his soldiers killed at least 16 suspected Taleban militants after they crossed the border from neighboring Pakistan , near Spin Boldak .
He said that among the dead were two Taleban commanders believed to have organized several attacks .
Sri Lanka 's President Chandrika Kumaratunga has appointed her brother as the country 's new foreign minister , to replace Lakshman Kadirgamar , who was assassinated earlier this month by suspected Tamil Tiger rebels .
A presidential statement says Anura Bandaranaike will retain his current post as tourist minister , but that Finance Minister Sarath Amunugama will take over his Industry and Investment portfolios .
Also Monday , Sri Lanka 's chief justice said the country 's Supreme Court will rule Friday when the next presidential election should be held .
The opposition says Mrs. Kumaratunga 's second and final six-year term ends in December .
But the ruling Freedom Party insists she is entitled to be in office until the end of next year , because she ended her first term one year ahead of schedule by calling snap polls .
Spain 's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th centuries ultimately yielded command of the seas to England .
Subsequent failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial revolutions caused the country to fall behind Britain , France , and Germany in economic and political power .
Spain remained neutral in World Wars I and II but suffered through a devastating civil war ( 1936 - 39 ) .
A peaceful transition to democracy following the death of dictator Francisco FRANCO in 1975 , and rapid economic modernization ( Spain joined the EU in 1986 ) gave Spain a dynamic and rapidly growing economy and made it a global champion of freedom and human rights .
The government continues to battle the Basque Fatherland and Liberty ( ETA ) terrorist organization , but its major focus for the immediate future will be on measures to reverse the severe economic recession that started in mid-2008 .
Lindsay Lohan 's father Michael flew to Utah September 5 , and is currently visiting the actress at the Cirque Lodge treatment center .
Sources close to the pair confirmed the visit to Access Hollywood .
Michael Lohan , who served nearly two years in a New York prison for driving while intoxicated and other charges , has publicly expressed his desire to reunite with his daughter since his release in March .
Sources told Access that Lindsay Lohan has not seen her father since before he went to prison .
The 21-year-old actress checked into Cirque Lodge on August 3 .
She has been visited by her mother Dina and siblings Cody and Ali , but this marks the first visit from her father .
Fisheries in 2006 - 07 landed 126,976 metric tons , of which 82 % ( 104,586 tons ) was krill ( Euphausia superba ) and 9.5 % ( 12,027 tons ) Patagonian toothfish ( Dissostichus eleginoides - also known as Chilean sea bass ) , compared to 127,910 tons in 2005 - 06 of which 83 % ( 106,591 tons ) was krill and 9.7 % ( 12,396 tons ) Patagonian toothfish ( estimated fishing from the area covered by the Convention of the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources ( CCAMLR ) , which extends slightly beyond the Southern Ocean area ) .
International agreements were adopted in late 1999 to reduce illegal , unreported , and unregulated fishing , which in the 2000 - 01 season landed , by one estimate , 8,376 metric tons of Patagonian and Antarctic toothfish .
In the 2007 - 08 Antarctic summer , 45,213 tourists visited the Southern Ocean , compared to 35,552 in 2006 - 07 , and 29,799 in 2005 - 06 ( estimates provided to the Antarctic Treaty by the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators ( IAATO ) , and does not include passengers on overflights and those flying directly in and out of Antarctica ) .
Burma says it is not interested in discussing possible democratic reforms at this week 's meeting of Asian and African leaders in Indonesia .
Speaking in Jakarta Thursday , after meetings with Indonesian officials , Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win said his delegation came to discuss the summit , not Burma 's internal affairs .
He said Rangoon would also not be pressured into giving up its turn at leading the southeast Asian regional bloc , ASEAN .
Rangoon has faced growing international demands to step aside from ASEAN 's rotating leadership because of Burma 's human rights record .
Thailand 's foreign minister Kantathi Supamongkhon told reporters Thursday , Burmese officials have assured him they are aware of the world 's concerns and that Burma will not be an obstacle to ASEAN unity .
The Thai official says he is convinced the chairmanship situation will be resolved in a very good way .
Macau 's economy slowed dramatically in 2009 as a result of the global economic slowdown , but strong growth resumed in 2010 , largely on the back of strong tourism and gaming sectors .
After opening up its locally-controlled casino industry to foreign competition in 2001 , the territory attracted tens of billions of dollars in foreign investment , transforming Macau into one of the world 's largest gaming center .
Macau 's gaming and tourism businesses were fueled by China 's decision to relax travel restrictions on Chinese citizens wishing to visit Macau .
By 2006 , Macau 's gaming revenue surpassed that of the Las Vegas strip , and gaming-related taxes accounted for more than 70 % of total government revenue .
In 2008 , Macau introduced measures to cool the rapidly developing sector .
This city of nearly 552,300 hosted nearly 25 million visitors in 2010 .
Almost 53 % came from mainland China .
Macau 's traditional manufacturing industry has virtually disappeared since the termination of the Multi-Fiber Agreement in 2005 .
In 2010 , total exports were less than US $ 900 million , while gaming receipts were almost US $ 24 billion , a 58 % increase over 2009 .
The Macau government plans to tighten control over the opening of new casinos and strengthen supervision of local casino operations in 2011 and has introduced measures to diversify the economy .
The Closer Economic Partnership Agreement ( CEPA ) between Macau and mainland China that came into effect on 1 January 2004 offers Macau-made products tariff-free access to the mainland ; nevertheless , China is Macau 's second largest goods export market , behind Hong Kong , and followed by the United States .
Macau 's currency , the pataca , is closely tied to the Hong Kong dollar , which is also freely accepted in the territory .
Americans are celebrating Columbus Day Monday .
Columbus Day is a federal holiday observed on the second Monday in October , marking the anniversary of arrival of Christopher Columbus to the Americas .
Columbus , an Italian explorer sailing under the Spanish flag , led four expeditions to the New World , but never accomplished his original goal -- to find a western ocean route to Asia .
Instead , Columbus ushered in a new era in world history by opening up the Americas to exploration .
Columbus Day became a U.S. holiday in 1971 .
It is generally observed by banks , the bond market , the Postal Service and other federal agencies , along with most state government offices and some school districts .
However , many businesses and stock exchanges remain open .
There is a trend among some states away from observing the holiday .
U.S. federal authorities have charged a young man with making a false threat against professional football stadiums in seven U.S. cities .
Officials say the 20-year-old suspect will appear in court later Friday .
He is alleged to be connected to an Internet hoax threatening " dirty bomb " attacks on those stadiums .
A " dirty bomb " is an explosive device combined with radioactive material .
On Wednesday , the Department of Homeland Security warned National Football League officials in the seven cities about the threat , but also expressed doubts about its credibility .
Thursday , federal investigators announced the threat turned out to be a hoax .
A message posted recently on a web site mentioned stadiums in New York , Miami , Atlanta , Seattle , Houston , Oakland and Cleveland .
A well-known journalist in Gambia has been shot and killed in the capital , Banjul .
Colleagues and family members say newspaper editor and news-agency correspondent Deyda Hydara died at the spot where he was gunned down after leaving work late Thursday .
No attacker was identified .
Mr. Hydara was an editor for the newspaper The Point and a correspondent for the French news agency , AFP .
Britain has suspended a planned increase in aid to Ethiopia over post-election violence that has left at least 36 people dead .
Britain 's International Development Minister Hilary Benn says $ 35 million in aid has been put on hold while Britain waits to see how the situation in Ethiopia develops .
Mr. Benn , who is visiting Ethiopia , says he expressed Britain 's concern about the violence to Prime Minister Meles Zenawi .
Last week , Ethiopian security forces opened fire on protesters who said the ruling party fixed parliamentary elections last month .
Human Rights Watch said Wednesday that police have arrested thousands of people across the country in response to the protests .
Preliminary election results show the ruling party has won a majority of seats , but the opposition also has claimed victory .
A U.S. Congressional report says it finds no overall improvement in human rights conditions in China during the past year , and that citizens who challenge state controls continue to face severe repression .
In its annual report released Tuesday , the Congressional-Executive Commission on China says Beijing continues to pursue certain judicial and criminal justice reforms that have potential to improve human rights .
But it says these steps are " clouded by new detentions and government policies designed to protect the Communist Party 's rule . "
The commission says China continues to harass , abuse and detain religious believers who practice their faith outside state-controlled religious venues , in particular the Muslim Uighur minority .
The report calls on President Bush and Congress to urge Chinese officials not to use the global war against terrorism as a pretext to suppress minorities ' rights .
New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has unveiled a plan to rebuild following last year 's devastation by Hurricane Katrina , saying residents will be allowed to reconstruct their homes in all parts of the city .
Nagin 's announcement followed public consultations on rebuilding proposals made by an advisory commission in January .
The commission had suggested converting parts of ruined neighborhoods into parks and imposing a ban on building permits in some areas .
Nagin says he rejected such ideas , which were criticized by many residents .
The mayor says residents can now make their own decisions about reconstructing their homes .
But Nagin warned that some New Orleans neighborhoods will remain prone to flooding , and people who rebuild there will do so at their own risk .
Nagin 's revival plan also calls for restructuring New Orleans ' government for greater efficiency and improving public transportation .
He is using the plans as part of his campaign for re-election .
Health experts say tests have confirmed a new outbreak of deadly Ebola virus in the Republic of Congo , killing nine people .
World Health Organization representative Doctor Alzouma Yada Adamou said Wednesday two others have been diagnosed with Ebola in the northwestern Cuvette region of Congo , near the border with Gabon .
He said a total of 11 cases have been reported this month .
In 2003 , more than 120 people died of the highly contagious disease in the same area .
Ebola , a hemorrhagic fever , causes rapid death through internal and external bleeding .
The World Heath Organization says the disease kills between 50 and 90 percent of victims , depending on the strain .
Scientists believe outbreaks are caused by people eating infected bush meat .
A Hungarian government spokesman says the deadly strain of bird flu virus has been found in southern Hungary .
The spokesman , Andras Batiz , said Tuesday three wild swans found last week have tested positive for the H5N1 virus .
A British laboratory confirmed the test results .
German veterinary officials Tuesday confirmed 22 new cases of flu in birds on the island of Ruegen .
The German government announced Monday the virus had spread to the mainland .
103 cases have now been found in wild birds in Germany .
Troops have been deployed to control the outbreak .
In Malaysia Tuesday , officials began culling birds and launched house-to-house inspections for sick people a day after the nation 's first outbreak in more than a year .
No human infections have been reported .
And in India , officials wrapped up the culling of thousands of birds to control the latest outbreak in Maharastra state .
Democracy is slowly being reestablished after the civil war from 1991 to 2002 that resulted in tens of thousands of deaths and the displacement of more than 2 million people ( about a third of the population ) .
The military , which took over full responsibility for security following the departure of UN peacekeepers at the end of 2005 , is increasingly developing as a guarantor of the country 's stability .
The armed forces remained on the sideline during the 2007 presidential election , but still look to the UN Integrated Office in Sierra Leone ( UNIOSIL ) - a civilian UN mission - to support efforts to consolidate peace .
The new government 's priorities include furthering development , creating jobs , and stamping out endemic corruption .
The leaders of Japan and South Korea have agreed to meet soon to try to repair the two countries ' frayed relations .
Japan 's new prime minister , Shinzo Abe , and South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun agreed to the meeting during a telephone conversation Thursday .
No specific date was set for their talks .
South Korea and China have shunned summits with Japan since last year , due to Beijing and Seoul 's anger over former Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's repeated visits to a controversial wartime shrine in Tokyo .
The Yasukuni shrine honors all of Japan 's war dead , including convicted World War Two criminals .
Mr. Abe 's foreign minister , Taro Aso , has said the new prime minister may visit China for a summit as early as October .
Japan 's parliament elected Mr. Abe prime minister on Tuesday .
A wave of insurgent attacks across Iraq killed at least 12 people , mostly Iraqi policemen Monday .
In Baghdad , five bombs killed six Iraqis , including three policemen .
North of the city , in Diyala province , gunmen killed five policemen at a checkpoint near Baquba .
Six of the attackers were killed .
Separately , the province 's governor survived a bomb attack that killed his bodyguard .
Meanwhile , Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko traveled to Iraq Monday to visit Ukrainian troops before they withdraw from the country .
Officials say he plans to attend a ceremony where Ukrainian troops will hand over equipment to Iraqi forces .
And The New York Times reports that a Shi'ite alliance has refused to give 10 of its parliament seats to Sunni Arabs .
Sunni Arabs complained of fraud in the December 15 election and asked for the seats to defuse tensions .
The number of Chinese using the Internet has risen sharply to include almost a third of the population .
A government-backed agency , the China Internet Network Information Center , reported Thursday that the number of Internet users has grown by 36 million since it last reported the official tally in late 2009 .
It said about 277 million people go online using mobile devices such as cell phones .
China 's government , which keeps tight control on traditional media , has tried to control online information as well , through censorship and Web monitoring .
Beijing 's attempt to control what people read and say on the Internet was highlighted by its recent dispute with the Google company , which provides a popular search engine .
The American company was told its license to operate in China would not be renewed unless it stopped its practice of automatically transferring Chinese users to an uncensored website in Hong Kong .
The U.S. military says American troops in northern Iraq have killed 14 insurgents in two attacks initiated by U.S. forces late Sunday and early Monday .
A U.S. statement says the fighting took place in the northern town of Tal Afar , and says there were no U.S. casualties .
In separate fighting near Baquba , insurgents stormed an Iraqi army checkpoint at daybreak , killing nine Iraqi soldiers .
A short while later , a car bomb explosion in the area killed at least two people and wounded several others .
Two U.S. Marines were killed in combat on Sunday in the town of Hit near Iraq 's border with Syria .
A burst of insurgent violence on Sunday killed at least 43 other people - most of them Iraqi army recruits and police .
The United States says it looks forward to working with a new Pakistani government and President Pervez Musharraf .
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Thursday that the Bush administration will work with whoever emerges as Pakistan 's prime minister , as well as Mr. Musharraf , who now serves as Pakistan 's civilian president .
The administration also confirmed Thursday that President Bush phoned Mr. Musharraf on Tuesday , a day after his party 's sweeping defeat in parliamentary elections .
A spokeswoman for Mr. Bush declined to say what the two leaders discussed .
President Musharraf is considered a key ally in the U.S.-led global war on terror .
With Mr. Musharraf 's political future in question , the U.S. has expressed hope this week that Pakistan 's emerging government will continue to be a partner in the fight against violent extremists .
Pakistani officials say an accidental blast has killed five militants near the Afghan border , but residents dispute their account .
Officials said three foreign militants - possibly from Uzbekistan - and two local Pakistanis were killed when they accidentally detonated explosives stored in a home .
But local residents in Pakistan 's restive northwest tribal region blamed the military , saying assailants fired missiles into the house , in Haisori village .
They also said the two Pakistanis killed were children .
Several hundred people later gathered at the nearby village of Mir Ali to denounce the alleged attack .
Tens of thousands of Pakistani forces are deployed in the rugged , semi-autonomous North Waziristan region , searching for foreign militants .
New data from China 's National Bureau of Statistics show inflation in the country at an 11-year high of 8.7 percent .
That is nearly double what Chinese leaders set as a goal for 2008 -- a rate of 4.8 percent .
Sam Beattie reports for VOA from Beijing .
Pakistani authorities say at least 18 women and children were killed in a stampede in the southern city of Karachi , where they were waiting to get free flour .
Medical officials say at least 25 others were injured in the crush in the city 's crowded Khori Garden neighborhood .
A private charity group was giving out the flour in honor of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Dozens of impoverished women and children had gathered in the narrow lanes and alleys outside the distribution point .
Witnesses say some people on line started pushing , and panic ensued when a security guard used force to restore order .
Officials say most of the victims died of suffocation .
Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani ordered medical treatment for the injured and an investigation into the incident .
Police have detained the event 's organizer , saying they were not notified of the planned distribution .
Belgian tennis star Justine Henin-Hardenne has won the women 's title at the Sydney International tournament in Australia .
She lost the first set and trailed Italian Francesca Schiavone 4-1 in the second set before rallying to win Friday 's final , 4-6 , 7-5 , 7-5 .
Two years ago , Henin-Hardenne won this tournament and went on to take the season 's first major at the Australian Open two weeks later .
This year 's Australian Open begins Monday .
Earlier in the day , in a men 's semifinal , American James Blake overcame a 4-2 first-set deficit to upset second-seeded Nikolay Davydenko of Russia , 6-4 , 6-2 .
Blake will play the Sydney final on Saturday against Russia 's Igor Andreev , who beat Andreas Seppi of Italy , 6-2 , 2-6 , 6-2 .
Andreev and Blake will be vying for their fourth career ATP tournament wins .
The U.S. military says the death toll from Thursday 's suicide bomb attack on a Shi'ite funeral in the northern city of Mosul has risen to 50 .
More than 80 other people were injured in the blast , many critically .
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Friday , grieving families buried their dead in private , canceling plans for a mass funeral procession because of fears it would be attacked .
On the political front , Iraq 's main Shi'ite alliance , which swept the January 30 elections , is finalizing a deal with Kurdish leaders to form a coalition ahead of the new parliament 's first session next Wednesday .
And a Polish newspaper quoted Warsaw 's defense minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski , as saying Poland will withdraw several hundred of its troops from Iraq in July .
Investigators in China have ruled out terrorism in the crash of a passenger plane Sunday that claimed the lives of 54 people .
State media said Monday that investigators sent from Beijing had n't determined the cause of the crash but found no evidence of sabotage .
The China Eastern Airlines Shanghai-bound jet plunged into a lake just seconds after taking off from Baotou city in Inner Mongolia .
Witnesses said they heard a blast while the plane was still in the air .
All 53 people on board and one on the ground were killed .
Divers have yet to find the two in-flight recorders that could help determine the cause of the accident .
The plane was a Canadian-made CRJ-200 .
China has grounded all its other CRJ-200s .
Israel says clashes have broken out between Israeli forces and Hezbollah guerrillas on the Lebanon border for a second straight day .
The Israeli army said the fighting in the Shebaa Farms region erupted early Thursday , and was continuing .
But , a Hezbollah spokesman told Reuters news service in Beirut that guerrilla fighters did not respond to Israeli firing .
Wednesday , one Israeli soldier and one Hezbollah fighter were killed , when guerillas fired rockets on Israeli military positions , and Israeli warplanes bombed targets in a village nearby .
Shebaa Farms has been the focus of Hezbollah attacks and Israeli counter-attacks since Israel withdrew from southern Lebanon in 2000 , after a 22-year occupation .
Lebanon and Syria say the area is Lebanese .
But cartographers say it belongs to a part of Syria that has been occupied by Israel since the 1967 war .
Pakistan 's President Asif Ali Zardari is meeting Britain 's Prime Minister David Cameron on Thursday for the first time since the British leader 's remarks suggesting that Islamabad is promoting " the export of terror . "
Mr. Zardari will have dinner with Mr. Cameron at the British prime minister 's country retreat Chequers , outside London .
The leaders hold formal talks on Friday .
During a trip to India last week , Prime Minister Cameron suggested Pakistan was not doing enough to counter terrorist groups within its borders that threaten India , Afghanistan and other nations .
The comments angered Pakistan .
Earlier this week President Zardari told the French newspaper Le Monde that Pakistan is paying the " highest price of human life " in the war on terrorism .
Mr. Cameron has stood by his remarks .
President Zardari traveled to Britain from France on Tuesday .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz has arrived in New Delhi for talks with Indian leaders to review the on-going peace process between the two neighbors .
A day before his arrival , Mr. Aziz warned not to expect a breakthrough during his talks with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , which he described as part of a continuing dialogue .
On Monday , Mr. Aziz said India 's reduction in troops in disputed Kashmir has helped reduce tensions .
But he added that a permanent solution is likely to be some time off .
Mr. Aziz also plans to meet Kashmiri separatist leaders during his visit .
His trip to India is part of a regional tour as the outgoing chairman of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation , or SAARC .
While in Pakistan , President Bush tried to learn the game of cricket and how it differs from baseball .
Mr. Bush bowled and batted several times on a small cricket pitch set up on the grounds of the U.S. embassy , as students from the Islamabad College for Boys looked on and encouraged him .
He got a quick lesson on how to hold the bat from the chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board , Shaharyar Khan .
Khan also explained to the former owner of a Texas baseball team how cricket , the popular sport of the old British empire , differs from baseball .
Pakistani cricket team captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and famous batsman Salman Butt were also on hand to share their expertise with Mr. Bush .
A Venezuela-based television station begins limited broadcasts Sunday as a counter to what its creators say is biased media coverage by European and U.S.-run channels .
Telesur is a joint venture funded by Venezuela , Argentina , Cuba and Uruguay .
Organizers say they aim to develop a hemispheric television network to provide programs from a Latin American perspective .
The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday passed an amendment authorizing radio and television broadcasts to Venezuela .
The amendment was to a bill authorizing State Department programs .
The amendment 's author , Florida Republican Connie Mack , said the U.S. broadcasts would offer what he called a consistently accurate , objective and comprehensive source of news to Venezuela .
The measure still requires Senate approval .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his government will " jam the signal " of any broadcasts from the United States .
The U.S. men 's national football team has completed a 10-day training camp in Cary , North Carolina ahead of the World Cup finals next month in Germany .
U.S. coach Bruce Arena says he is satisfied that his team is healthy and ready for the first of three tuneup games .
At Sunday 's final practice , Arena reminded his players numerous times not to fight too hard for the ball and save their aggression for World Cup games .
The Americans host Morocco on Tuesday in Nashville , Tennessee before facing Venezuela on Friday in Cleveland , Ohio .
The last warmup game is next Sunday against Latvia in East Hartford , Connecticut .
The Americans , who made an impressive quarterfinal run at the 2002 World Cup , will face the Czech Republic , Italy and Ghana next month at the global football tournament .
Officials at the United States Embassy in Nepal say they are alarmed by the possibility of an alliance between Maoist rebels and political parties in the Himalayan kingdom .
An official statement released by the Embassy says the United States supports the restoration of democracy in Nepal as well as the prevention of a Maoist takeover .
Nepal 's seven major political parties recently offered to talk to the Maoists about forming a broad front opposed to King Gyanendra on the condition that the rebels end violent attacks aimed at civilians .
The king assumed emergency powers earlier this year and ousted the kingdom 's four-party government for failing to make progress in the battle against the rebels , who have been fighting since 1996 to overthrow the monarchy .
An official with Canada 's spy agency has said that potential terrorists already reside inside the country , and that some have been schooled in al-Qaida training camps .
Jack Hooper , the deputy director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service , spoke Monday in Ottawa to a legislative committee studying Canada 's involvement in Afghanistan .
Hooper told the lawmakers Canada faces a threat from home-grown terrorists .
He said that all the circumstances which produced the London transit bombing are present now in Canada .
Hooper said that many of the home-grown terrorists are Canadian citizens .
He also cautioned that his agency has been able to investigate only 10 percent of the immigrants who have come to Canada during the past five years from Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Russia has criticized a recent White House report that calls for greater democratic reforms in Russia 's neighbors .
In a statement Monday , Russia 's foreign ministry said the report showed that U.S. officials are seeking an active democracy-building role in the region .
It warned that , in its words , " artificial " and " forceful " attempts at planting democracy in other countries may not be successful .
It added that no one has a monopoly on interpreting the basis of democracy .
The statement follows the release last week of President Bush 's new national security strategy , which criticized Russia for falling off the path to democracy .
Referring to Russia , it said recent trends " regrettably point toward a diminishing commitment to democratic freedoms and institutions . "
Mr. Bush said future relations will depend on Russia 's domestic and foreign policies .
A senior Russian veterinary official says a bird and animal market in southern Moscow is the source of last week 's bird flu outbreak on nearby farms .
Alexei Alexeyenko said Sunday the section of the market where the outbreak began has been closed .
Tests are also being carried out on the dead birds to determine if they carried the H5N1 strain , which is deadly to humans .
Russian authorities say they found bird flu on two farms south and north of Moscow .
They say they do not yet know the origin of the dead birds found in the market , but the Moscow region 's chief veterinary official , Valery Sitnikov , said bio-terrorism can not be ruled out .
The H5N1 bird flu strain has killed 167 people since 2003 .
Most of the victims were Asians .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and his challenger , Angela Merkel , are campaigning in the eastern city of Dresden ahead of Sunday 's vote for the only seat left undecided in this month 's parliamentary elections .
Both sides hope to gain an edge in talks on a new government after the inconclusive September 18 balloting left Ms. Merkel 's Christian Democrats just three seats ahead of the Chancellor 's Social Democrats .
The two sides have been discussing forming a so-called " Grand Coalition " of their two parties after neither side could get enough backing in parliament to form a government .
But the talks are stalled because both Chancellor Schroeder and Ms. Merkel continue to claim the right to be the next chancellor .
Sunday 's Dresden vote was delayed for two weeks by the death of a candidate from a far-right party shortly before the election .
Inscribed in stone over the great front doors of an old church being restored was : " This is the Gate of Heaven . "
Just below it someone had placed a small cardboard sign which read : " Use Other Entrance . "
Israel and some Palestinian militant groups say they are willing to observe a cease-fire , if certain conditions are met .
The Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades , the armed wing of the Fatah movement , said Saturday it would agree to a truce if Israel promises to release Palestinian prisoners and stop military operations , including raids to make arrests , and targeted killings of Palestinian militants .
Other groups have made similar comments .
For its part , Israel signaled it could ease military operations against Palestinian gunmen if they halt attacks against Israelis .
The conciliatory messages follow efforts by Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to persuade militants to end their campaign of anti-Israeli attacks so he can negotiate for a Palestinian state on Israeli-occupied lands .
The Israeli army says Palestinian militants detonated a car bomb near a shrine in the West Bank city of Nablus overnight , but caused no injuries or damage .
A spokesman said the bomb went off next to Joseph 's Tomb shortly after midnight , when Israeli troops were guarding a small group religious Jews praying inside .
Meanwhile , Israel 's Vice Prime Minister and Labor Party leader Shimon Peres held talks with Palestinian Cabinet Minister Mohmmed Dahlan in Tel Aviv late Wednesday .
It was the first high level contact between the two sides since last week 's suicide bombing in Tel Aviv that killed five Israelis .
Mr. Peres told Israeli radio one of the topics he discussed was a possible hand over to the Palestinians of businesses held by Jewish settlers in the Gaza Strip , when Israel pulls out of the territory later this year .
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan says the situation between Ethiopia and Eritrea has reached a " dangerous stalemate " and suggested possible changes to the U.N. mission in the region .
Mr. Annan presented the U.N. Security Council with six options for the U.N. mission , ranging from maintaining the status quo to a full withdrawal .
Other options include moving the U.N. mission headquarters from Eritrea to Ethiopia and downgrading the operation to either an observer or liaison effort .
Mr. Annan did not recommend any particular option and said none offered an ideal way out of the stalemate .
Both Eritrea and Ethiopia have increased troops along their shared border .
Eritrea has also imposed restrictions on U.N. peacekeepers in its territory .
The Security Council has threatened sanctions against both countries if the situation is not reversed .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say suspected Islamic militants have detonated a grenade , wounding at least six people , including two policemen .
The authorities say the blast occurred Saturday near a security post in a crowded business district in the heart of Srinagar .
They say the attackers apparently missed their intended target , a patrol of paramilitary soldiers .
The wounded were taken to nearby hospitals .
Police cordoned off the area and were searching for the attackers .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Muslim separatists in Indian Kashmir have been fighting for an independent Kashmir or its merger with neighboring Pakistan since 1989 .
Their fight against Indian rule has killed tens of thousands of people .
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg says a strike by the city 's transit union is " morally reprehensible . "
The union went on strike early this Tuesday morning after negotiations broke down with the state 's transportation authority .
The walkout will shutdown the city 's huge bus and subway network , and throw the daily commute of its seven million customers into chaos .
Mr. Bloomberg says he will ask a judge to take legal action against the union .
Contract talks between the two sides have deadlocked over such issues as wage increases and at what age new employees will be eligible to receive a full pension .
Union head Roger Toussaint calls the dispute a fight over whether " hard work will be rewarded with a decent retirement . "
An emergency plan is in effect to prevent massive traffic jams on New York 's streets .
The Israeli army says troops raided the West Bank town of Jenin Monday , arresting eight militants suspected of involvement in making crude rockets and mortars .
The army says the detained men are members of the Islamic Jihad militant group .
It says one soldier was slightly wounded during the operation .
On Sunday , Israel delayed handing over the town of Qalqilya to Palestinian security control , saying the Palestinians have failed to move against militants in Jericho and Tulkarem - the two towns already transferred to them .
Qalqilya is the third of five West Bank towns Israel is to hand over to Palestinian security control under an agreement the two sides reached last month .
There is no word on when the remaining two towns - Jenin and Ramallah - will be transferred .
Al-Qaida 's number two leader has appeared in a video praising Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the leader of al-Qaida in Iraq killed on June seventh by a U.S. air strike .
Ayman al-Zawahiri 's video aired Friday on Al Jazeera .
In it , Zawahiri appeared in front of a portrait of Zarqawi .
He called Zarqawi the prince of martyrs and said that no member of al-Qaida would die without avenging him .
He also criticized several Iraqi government officials and the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq .
Zawahiri did not mention Zarqawi 's successor as leader of al-Qaida in Iraq , Abu Hamza al-Muhajer .
The omission may mean the tape was made before Muhajer was appointed or that Zawahiri does not endorse him .
Zawahiri , along with al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden , is thought to be hiding somewhere along the rugged border dividing Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Russian energy giant Gazprom has blasted European calls to ratify an agreement to guarantee Russian gas shipments to Europe .
Gazprom deputy chief executive Alexander Medvedev Tuesday criticized a proposed energy charter between the EU and Russia , saying the document no longer represents market conditions .
Part of the charter would require Russia to effectively allow third-party access to the state-owned Gazprom 's export pipeline network .
Europe currently relies on Russia for a quarter of its natural gas .
Gazprom officials have threatened to sell the gas elsewhere if European countries move to limit the company 's expansion .
Earlier this year , Gazprom temporarily cut gas supplies to Ukraine in a price dispute .
The blockage sharply reduced deliveries to other European countries , prompting calls from some EU members for applying the bloc 's anti-monopoly rules to the Russian firm .
India won its first home test series against Pakistan in 27 years when the third and final test in Bangalore ended in a draw .
Indian spin bowler Anil Kumble took five wickets in Pakistan 's second innings as the visitors reached 162-7 before bad light ended play .
The score was in response to India 's second innings score of 284-6 declared .
The final score : India 626 and 284-6 declared .
Pakistan 537 and 162-7 .
India had not won a home test series with Pakistan since 1980 .
The host nation won the first test by six wickets and the second test was a draw .
India won the five-match one-day series , 3-2 .
The leaders of the 53-member African Union have opened their two-day summit , where they will focus on debt relief and a greater voice in the United Nations .
The African summit beginning Monday is being held just days before the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialized nations gather in Scotland to discuss debt relief for the war-torn , poverty-stricken continent .
The G-8 summit is expected to give final approval to an agreement that forgives $ 40 billion of debt held by the world 's poorest nations , mostly in Africa .
The AU leaders are also expected to support a proposal calling for the continent to get two permanent seats and two non-permanent seats on an expanded U.N. Security Council .
U.S. embassy officials in Iraq say an American teen who skipped school and flew to Baghdad without his parents ' permission is on his way home .
In a brief statement Friday , the U.S. consul-general in Baghdad announced that 16-year-old Farris Hassan has left Iraq .
The boy , of Iraqi descent , says he went to the war-torn country to pursue his interest in news reporting , cultivated in a high school journalism class .
The student from Florida bought a plane ticket and left the United States on December 11 , arriving in Kuwait , where he called his parents .
He later flew to Iraq on a flight from Lebanon .
Earlier this week , the boy entered the Iraqi offices of the Associated Press news agency .
Journalists immediately called the U.S. embassy , where officials had been looking for the teen , at his parents ' request .
A Saudi Interior Ministry spokesman says three French nationals have been killed in northwestern Saudi Arabia .
The spokesman says gunmen shot at a group of nine French nationals as they rested at a roadside , killing three and injuring at least one other .
The spokesman says the group was traveling to the holy city of Mecca , where some of them were to perform the minor pilgrimage known as Omra .
Only Muslims are allowed in Mecca .
The spokesman said the French nationals were residents of the Saudi kingdom .
It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the killings .
Saudi Arabia has been battling al-Qaida militants in the kingdom , and the terrorist group has targeted Westerners in the past .
According to the World Bank , 300 million people in China - a number roughly equal to the population of the United States - live on less than a dollar a day .
As China 's government works to control record high inflation , the country 's poor are struggling to put food on the table .
And the recent earthquake , officials say , is likely to fuel even higher inflation because of the damage to the country 's agriculture .
Sam Beattie reports from Beijing .
Pakistan 's military says at least 30 militants and six soldiers have been killed during fighting Sunday in the North Waziristan tribal region .
An army spokesman ( Major General Waheed Arshad ) says that security forces attacked the pro-Taleban militants after they ambushed a military convoy Saturday evening near the town of Mir Ali .
He says fighting was also taking place in other parts of the area .
Violence has been escalating in Pakistan 's northern tribal regions bordering Afghanistan since July , when a peace pact with militants broke down in North Waziristan , and army commandos stormed a radical mosque in the capital , Islamabad .
Nigeria 's president has inaugurated the nation 's energy board with a promise to commission the country 's first nuclear power plant within 10 to 12 years .
President Olusegun Obasanjo said Monday in the capital , Abuja , that the nuclear capacity would be strictly for peaceful purposes to strengthen the nation 's electrical system .
He stressed that Nigeria is " unequivocally committed to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . "
Mr. Obasanjo made the comments to the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission , which he chairs .
He said the commission will be working to enhance electricity capabilities for Nigeria 's impoverished population .
Competitive diving is one of the sports guaranteed to attract a large audience at the Summer Olympics in Beijing .
Recreational diving is also a growing amateur sport in the U.S.
Unfortunately , the joy of jumping off the diving board at the local swimming pool has too often been spoiled by a trip to the emergency room .
VOA 's Melinda Smith has details of a new study showing that at least 6,000 children in the U.S. are hurt every year in diving accidents .
A new United Nations report says insurgent and terrorist violence in Afghanistan sharply increased last year , with more than 8,000 conflict-related deaths .
In his report issued Monday , U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he is concerned that a fifth of those killed were civilians .
He also cited increased attacks on humanitarian workers and aid convoys .
Mr. Ban said Taliban insurgents , related armed groups and drug trafficking all represent serious threats to Afghanistan 's stability , with violence spreading to the previously calm northwest .
His report also highlights the way the conflict has changed from a conventional war between western forces and the Taliban to an insurgency using suicide attacks , assassinations , abductions and roadside bombings .
As expected , Mr. Ban recommended that the mandate for the U.N. mission in Afghanistan - which expires later this month - be extended for another year .
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through a narrow passage which led to his stall .
A young Calf came up , and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could manage to pass .
" Save yourself the trouble , " said the Bull ;
" I knew that way long before you were born . "
Four U.S. soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan by a roadside bomb in eastern Kunar province .
A U.S. military statement said the soldier 's vehicle was hit by an improvised explosive device while on patrol Sunday .
Also Sunday , Sibghatullah Mujaddedi , who chairs the upper house of Afghanistan 's parliament , escaped with minor injuries from a suicide bombing in Kabul .
The bombing killed two bystanders and two suicide bombers .
Mujaddedi said he believed Pakistan 's intelligence agency organized the bombing .
Pakistan denied the charge .
Meanwhile , the Taleban claimed responsibility Sunday for kidnapping four Albanians and four Afghan men working for U.S. forces in southern Afghanistan .
Taleban spokesman , Qari Mohammed Yousaf said his group kidnapped the men Saturday .
He also said the Taleban 's fugitive leader Mullah Mohammad Omar would decide what would happen to the men .
All eight worked for a cleaning company employed by coalition forces .
The United Nations nuclear agency says Iran has started enriching uranium at an underground facility .
The International Atomic Energy Agency also says Iran has set up more than 1,000 centrifuges for enrichment at the plant at Natanz .
The IAEA made the claim in a confidential document .
The enrichment process can be used to create fuel for nuclear reactors or in the creation of nuclear weapons .
Last week , Iran said it had reached an industrial scale in uranium enrichment .
But nuclear experts said Iran 's program was not yet at that level .
The United States and its allies have accused Iran of trying to develop atomic weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is for the peaceful production of energy .
Britain 's defense ministry has launched what it calls an urgent military police investigation into alleged abuse of Iraqi prisoners caught on videotape .
A ministry statement says it condemns all acts of abuse and brutality and treats allegations of wrongdoing very seriously .
British television broadcast the videotape Sunday after it was released by the News of the World newspaper .
The British soldiers are seen beating detained young Iraqi protesters with batons and kicking them .
The newspaper says the tape was shot in 2004 in southern Iraq .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sunday the incident will be fully investigated .
He says the overwhelming majority of British troops in Iraq are doing a great job helping Iraq become a democracy .
India 's industrial production has increased at its fastest pace in 16 months , another sign that Asia 's third largest economy is pulling out of the international financial crisis .
The government statistics agency said Wednesday that manufacturing output surged 7.8 percent in June from a year earlier .
The 16 nations using the euro as their currency have not done as well .
Eurozone industrial output fell 17 percent in June , compared to last year .
Job cuts and a shorter supply of bank loans has weakened consumer demand , depressing Europe 's industrial output .
Data released in London Wednesday showed Britain 's unemployment rate has hit a 14-year high , with 2.43 million people out of work .
The number of jobless increased by 7.8 percent ( 220,000 jobs ) in the three months to June .
The Vatican says Pope John Paul has canceled his scheduled audiences for the next few days because he has the flu .
The Roman Catholic pontiff also canceled his audiences on Monday .
It is the first time in more than one year the pope has had to miss an audience due to illness .
John Paul began to fall ill on Sunday , and doctors advised him to cut back on his activities .
The Vatican Tuesday issued a brief statement announcing the cancellations on the pope 's schedule , but did not release any specific information about his condition .
The increasingly frail , 84-year-old pope suffers from Parkinson 's disease and arthritis , but continues to maintain a full travel schedule , hold audiences and perform his papal duties .
Russia 's energy minister says United Nations sanctions will not get in the way of the country 's plans to develop Iran 's oil and gas sectors .
Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko met with his Iranian counterpart , Masud Mir-Kazemi , in Moscow Wednesday to sign a " road map " document outlining energy cooperation .
Shmatko said Russian companies are prepared to deliver oil products to Iran , despite sanctions .
Russian state energy company Gazprom has agreed to help Iran further develop its oil and natural gas fields , but most projects are currently on hold because of sanctions .
Western governments have urged their companies to cut ties with Iran because of its controversial nuclear program .
Western nations accuse Iran of seeking to develop nuclear weapons under cover of a civilian energy program , a charge Tehran denies .
A top international security organization has urged the candidates in Kyrgyzstan 's July 10 presidential election to agree to a code of conduct for the sake of the country 's stability .
The statement by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe comes more than two months after a popular uprising ousted President Askar Akayev .
Mr. Akayev fled to Russia in March after a revolt spurred by complaints over vote-rigging in parliamentary elections earlier this year .
Earlier Wednesday , several dozen young people forced their way into Kyrgyzstan 's Supreme Court building and evicted supporters of rival political groups who occupied the building since April .
Witnesses say several people were injured in the fighting .
The activists forced to flee the building backed politicians who had been disqualified by courts from running in this year 's parliamentary elections .
President Bush has called on Congress to make his tax cuts permanent , saying they will keep the economy on track to cut the deficit in half by 2009 .
In a radio address to the nation Saturday , Mr. Bush said some Democrats in Congress want to repeal the tax cuts or let them expire over the next few years .
Mr. Bush said the cuts instituted in 2001 have put $ 880 billion back into the hands of American citizens .
He said giving citizens more spending power helps the economy grow .
Mr. Bush said eliminating the tax cuts will present American families with a big tax increase that they do not expect and will not want .
A WOLF , passing by , saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch of mutton for their dinner .
Approaching them , he said , " What a clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing ! "
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has met twice with the ailing former Cuban leader Fidel Castro during a short visit to Havana .
Cuba 's state-run media says the first meeting took place after Mr. Chavez arrived Friday night .
The Venezuelan leader met again with Mr. Castro and his brother , Cuban President Raul Castro , on Saturday before Mr. Chavez 's afternoon departure .
The former Cuban president and Mr. Chavez were reported to have discussed their countries ' " fruitful ties " and the global economic crisis and its consequences for Latin America and the Caribbean .
No images of Fidel Castro were released from the meetings .
He has not been seen in public since 2006 when he underwent surgery and ceded power to his younger brother .
The trip to Cuba was President Chavez 's first since winning a referendum this month that removes term limits on his presidency and allows him to seek re-election .
Insurgents in Iraq launched a series of new attacks on Saturday , killing at least seven people , including two British contractors .
British officials say the two contractors were traveling in a British consular convoy that was hit by a roadside bomb .
The attack in the relatively quiet town of Basra also injured two Iraqi children .
In Baghdad , Iraqi police said a suicide car bomber attacked a police checkpoint , killing at least five people and injuring 25 others .
Meanwhile , a Sunni Arab leader , Sheikh Khalaf al-Ilayan , said he was not hurt in an assassination attempt by gunmen wearing Iraqi military uniforms .
And officials said kidnappers seized an Iraqi health ministry official from her Baghdad home .
Police also reported finding the bodies of three Baghdad airport employees kidnapped earlier this week .
North Korea has invited Washington 's chief U.S. nuclear negotiator to Pyongyang to discuss the North 's nuclear program .
The North 's Deputy Foreign Minister , Choe Su Hon , said Pyongyang would impose no conditions on a visit by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill .
Washington has not commented on the proposal .
Also Thursday , North Korea said the United States should provide it with civilian nuclear reactors " as soon as possible " to build confidence in Monday 's nuclear disarmament agreement .
Washington has rejected that demand .
Meanwhile , Japan 's Kyodo news agency reports Pyongyang has agreed to talks with Japan in October on a range of issues , including Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
Their disputes include North Korea 's missile program and the unresolved cases of Japanese citizens kidnapped by Pyongyang in the 1970s and 80s .
Lawyers for a former California gang leader have asked the state supreme court to block his execution Tuesday , while California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger considers granting clemency .
Stanley " Tookie " Williams has been convicted of four murders and was the co-founder of the infamous Crips street gang .
His case has attracted international attention because Williams is the author of a series of children 's books warning young people about the dangers of gangs .
His lawyers argue that the books are evidence that Williams has turned his life around during his 24 years in prison .
Williams has apologized for his gang activity , but denies committing the 1979 murders .
In an earlier appeal , the California high court upheld Williams ' conviction .
Mr. Schwarzenegger 's decision on clemency is expected Monday .
In two other death penalty cases he has refused clemency appeals .
Kandani Ngwira , who works for a newspaper that publishes scandals involving public figures , says he has been taken into custody and not told why
A Malawi journalist who works for a newspaper that publishes scandals involving public figures has confirmed his own arrest .
Kandani Ngwira contacted media outlets on Tuesday , saying he had been taken into custody and not told why .
Ngwira works for the Weekly Times , a newspaper that the Malawian government tried to ban in November of last year .
National police spokesman , Willy Mwaluka , says he had no information about Ngwira 's detention .
The journalist says he was arrested in Blantyre and transported to the capital , Lilongwe .
Blantyre Newspapers Limited , which owns the Weekly Times says it is providing a lawyer for Ngwira .
An Ethiopian court has convicted former President Mengistu Haile Mariam of genocide .
The 12-year trial of Colonel Mengistu ended Tuesday in Addis Ababa , when a three-judge panel found him guilty of genocide and other charges .
The former dictator was convicted in absentia .
He fled to Zimbabwe in 1991 after he was ousted by a guerrilla campaign led by current Prime Minister Meles Zenawi .
Only 34 of the more than 70 people accused of atrocities were present in court Tuesday .
A total of 25 were tried in absentia , while 14 others have died since the trial began in 1994 .
Those convicted of crimes against humanity and genocide could be sentenced to death .
Mengistu 's rule from 1974 to 1991 is considered among the most brutal in Africa .
An estimated 50,000 people , including students , political figures and members of the middle class , were killed for opposing his regime .
The leader of the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah is blaming President Bush for last week 's sectarian violence in Lebanon .
Speaking to a large crowd in Beirut Tuesday , Hassan Nasrallah accused Mr. Bush and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice of seeking to spark a civil war in Lebanon .
He also asserted that the Bush administration ordered Israel to attack Hezbollah positions in the country last year .
The July-August war between Israel and Hezbollah killed about 1,200 people in Lebanon and about 160 Israelis .
On Monday , President Bush said Hezbollah , along with Syria and Iran , are responsible for last week 's violence in Lebanon between government supporters and the Hezbollah-led opposition .
Seven people were killed and more than 100 wounded .
Some in Lebanon are concerned that sectarian tensions will spin out of control and might lead to a civil war like the one that raged from 1975 to 1990 .
At least six people have been killed and more than a dozen others wounded in a bomb explosion in the southwestern Pakistani city of Quetta .
The bomb exploded Friday near a military truck parked in the center of the city , the capital of Baluchistan province .
Officials say the bomb was strapped to a bicycle .
Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed condemned the blast , calling it a heinous act that would not go unpunished .
A recent increase in violence in Baluchistan has been blamed on local tribesmen , who want a bigger share of the revenue from the region 's mineral and oil resources .
A congressional investigation says tens of millions of dollars of U.S. taxpayer funds are indirectly being paid to Afghan warlords , public officials and even the Taliban to ensure safe passage of U.S. supply convoys in Afghanistan .
A lengthy report released late Monday says eight Afghan-based private contractors working with the Defense Department through a $ 2.1 billion transportation contract are paying several thousand dollars per truck for guards .
The contract covers at least 70 percent of all goods and services used by U.S. forces .
Congressional investigators say trucking contractors raised the issue with military officials , but their concerns were never properly addressed .
The report was completed by the House of Representative 's national security subcommittee , which will hold hearings on the report Tuesday .
The U.S. military says it has begun investigating reports of corruption in Afghanistan , and has created a task force to determine the impact of its contracting processes on corruption .
A secular coalition led by Iraq 's former prime minister has taken a slight lead in overall votes as ballot counting from parliamentary elections continues - but it remains behind in the key provincial tally .
With about 93 percent of the ballots counted , election officials said Saturday that former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's secularists lead the Shi'ite coalition headed by current Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki by about 8,000 votes .
The lead has repeatedly shifted between Mr. Allawi and Prime Minister Maliki since the March 7 vote .
But Mr. Maliki 's State of Law coalition is still ahead in seven of Iraq 's 18 provinces - compared to five provinces held by Mr. Allawi 's Iraqiya alliance .
Seats in Iraq 's 325-member parliament are won according to how well a coalition does in a province , not according to the overall vote .
Officials say they hope to have final results by the end of the month .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says it is very unlikely that security operations in Iraq would be transferred from U.S.-led troops to U.N. peacekeepers .
Speaking on the sidelines of a security conference in Munich , Mr. Annan said at this stage , the United Nations hopes to help more with Iraq 's post-war reconstruction .
Mr. Annan told the British Broadcasting Corporation the world body could help with training ministry officials and rebuilding the war-damaged country .
On another issue , Mr. Annan said he has no plans to resign over allegations of bribes and kickbacks in the U.N.-supervised oil-for-food program in Iraq .
A U.S. judge has agreed to review the government 's decision to repatriate 15 Cuban migrants after they reached an abandoned bridge in the Florida Keys .
U.S. District Judge Federico Moreno Thursday questioned the government 's reasoning for sending back the migrants earlier this week .
Moreno called the bridge " as American as apple pie " - an expression common in the U.S. to indicate something is certainly American - even though it does not connect to dry land .
A Cuban advocacy group had filed a legal complaint on behalf of the repatriated Cubans .
The U.S. employs a " wet foot , dry foot " policy for illegal Cuban immigrants .
The policy allows Cuban refugees who reach U.S. soil to stay in the United States , while those intercepted at sea are sent back home .
Somalia 's transitional government-in-exile met Tuesday to try to bridge deep divisions over plans to relocate to the war-shattered nation .
A group of Somali ministers walked out of a meeting Monday , before a majority voted to return to Somalia but not to the capital , Mogadishu , which the prime minister says is too dangerous .
The ministers voted instead to relocate to the central towns of Baidoa and Jowhar until security improves in the capital .
The Somali government currently operates out of Nairobi , Kenya .
Lawmakers are also bitterly divided over plans to deploy a peacekeeping force to provide security once the government returns to Somalia .
The regional bloc - IGAD - has decided to initially exclude troops from nations bordering Somalia .
Opponents of the force say border nations have backed violent factions during years of civil war .
Israel completed its handover of the West Bank town of Tulkarem to the Palestinians Tuesday .
Tulkarem is the second town transferred to the Palestinians , after Jericho last week .
The transfer of five West Bank towns is one of the steps Israeli and Palestinian leaders agreed to at a summit in Egypt last month .
Israel has yet to hand over three other towns - Qalqiliya , Bethlehem and Ramallah .
Meanwhile , Israel confirmed plans to build 3,500 new homes in Maale Adumin , the largest Jewish settlement in the West Bank .
Palestinians condemned the move as a violation of the internationally-backed " Road Map " peace plan and said it threatens the newly-energized Middle East peace process .
The peace plan calls on Israel to freeze its settlement activity in the West Bank .
It also requires the Palestinians to dismantle militant groups .
A leading Syrian human rights activist , who faces trial for allegedly defaming Syria 's image , has been awarded a prestigious international human rights award .
Syrian lawyer-activist Aktham Naisse was chosen unanimously by the 11 international human rights groups that make up the Geneva-based Martin Ennals Foundation .
In announcing the 2005 award , the jury panel said the 53-year-old Mr. Naise has for 30 years " embodied the soul of the democratic movement in Syria . "
Mr. Naisse was arrested last April in Damascus , one month after his group - the Committees for the Defense of Democratic Liberties and Human Rights in Syria - organized a rare protest outside Syria 's parliament .
The protest highlighted demands for political reform and the repeal of Syria 's emergency laws .
The group says he faces trial next week , January 16 , on charges of " disseminating false information aimed at weakening the state . "
In this photograph released by the Iraqi Special Tribunal on June 13 , 2005 , former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein is seen being questioned by investigating magistrates Iraq 's special tribunal has filed its first charges against former president Saddam Hussein for crimes committed during his 24-year rule .
The chief investigating judge says the ousted dictator has been charged in connection with the 1982 deaths of dozens of villagers in Dujail .
Authorities allege the villagers were killed in retaliation for an attempted assassination of Saddam .
The judge told reporters a trial date could be announced within days .
He also said other investigations are continuing or nearing their final stages .
The Dujail case is widely seen as relatively uncomplicated compared to cases of alleged genocide and crimes against humanity still under investigation .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has confirmed that he will not be part of the country 's next government to be headed by Christian Democratic Union leader Angela Merkel .
Mr. Schroeder made the comment Wednesday in a speech to trade union members in his hometown of Hanover .
Ms. Merkel 's conservative party narrowly beat Mr. Schroeder 's Social Democrats in the September 18 parliamentary elections .
The two parties agreed to a coalition deal Monday under which Ms. Merkel will become the new chancellor while the Social Democrats control a majority of cabinet posts .
In Washington , a White House spokesman says President Bush telephoned Ms. Merkel to congratulate her on her selection as chancellor .
Mr. Bush said he looks forward to working with her to build a strong foundation of U.S.-German relations .
Pakistani helicopter gunships and fighter jets pounded militant hide-outs in the country 's northwest Saturday , killing at least 12 militants .
Security officials say the airstrikes targeted three suspected militant positions in Orakzai region , where a military transport helicopter crashed the day before , killing at least 26 military personnel .
Pakistani officials say the helicopter crashed Friday outside the city of Peshawar due to a technical failure .
But the Taliban claims it shot down the aircraft .
Elsewhere in the northwest , clashes between a pro-government tribal militia and militants killed at least 12 people late Friday in the remote Mohmand region , along the Afghan border .
Pakistan 's military has been fighting Taliban militants throughout the country 's northwest for more than two months .
Security officials also are on high alert following the launch this week of a major U.S. offensive against Taliban militants in neighboring Afghanistan .
Ukrainian lawmakers have set Tuesday for a repeat vote on Yulia Tymoshenko 's nomination as prime minster .
Members of the unicameral parliament Verkhovna Rada also agreed Friday to vote by raising hands to ensure transparency .
Ms. Tymoshenko failed to win the absolute majority by one vote Tuesday .
Ms. Tymoshenko accused her political rivals of tampering with the electronic voting system , saying the device failed to register two votes cast in her favor .
The vote will follow President Viktor Yushchenko 's decision Wednesday to again nominate her for the post .
Western and Muslim leaders and activists are meeting in Austria for a conference on Islam and ways to promote understanding between Muslims and non-Muslims .
Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik says the three-day " Islam in a Pluralistic World " is also aimed at increasing dialogue between different religions .
Scheduled speakers include Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Iraqi President Jalal Talabani who is expected to discuss Islam 's role in a world of interwoven interests and economies .
Other attendees include former Iranian president Mohammed Khatami and Iranian human rights attorney Shirin Ebadi , who won the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize .
The conference comes as the riots in France have forced new dialogue on how Muslims are viewed in European society .
The U.S. military says at least two Marines are dead and three Marines and a sailor are missing after a suicide car bomb blast struck their convoy in Fallujah late Thursday .
The military says that 13 other service members were wounded in the attack , which took place as the convoy was traveling through the city .
Officials released no further details about the incident .
In Baghdad , a British security firm guarding Iraq 's main airport has temporarily stopped work because of a contract dispute with the Iraqi government .
Following the move , all commercial flights at the airport were halted .
And in Mosul , local officials say one Iraqi woman was killed by an errant mortar round fired at a nearby police academy .
The United States says there are more than 13,000 American military personnel giving relief support to nations affected by the Asian tsunami .
Admiral Thomas Fargo , who is commander of the U.S. Pacific Command , said Tuesday more personnel and ships are pouring into the region .
He said the military initially dispatched ships that could treat drinking water and that carried medical and engineering supplies .
Admiral Fargo added that the military is looking at sending the hospital ship , Mercy , to the region .
He said authorities are considering configuring the ship for humanitarian assistance and staffing it largely with members of non-governmental organizations .
So far , the U.S. military has delivered more than 200 tons of relief supplies .
Those supplies and equipment are being delivered by helicopters , cargo planes and ships .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has paid a rare visit to mainly Kurdish southeastern Turkey , where he repeated government promises to solve problems in the restive region .
Speaking Sunday in Diyarbakir , Mr. Erdogan told a political conference his government wants to eradicate imbalances between the impoverished region and the rest of Turkey .
Mr. Erdogan 's visit coincides with an upsurge in violence blamed on the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party said to be operating from bases in northern Iraq .
Dozens of soldiers and suspected Kurdish rebels have been killed in recent months .
The prime minister also condemned last week 's bombing of a minibus carrying soldiers ' children home from school in the city of Hakkari .
Authorities say 11 children were among the 17 people wounded .
Kurds in Turkey began a campaign for an independent homeland in the southeast in 1984 .
More than 30,000 people have been killed since then .
Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri has denied a newspaper report that says he will ask a U.N. tribunal to stop its investigation into the 2005 assassination of his father , former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri .
Mr. Hariri 's office said Wednesday the report by Ad-Diyar newspaper was not accurate .
Media reports say the tribunal may soon indict members of the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah in the killing of Rafiq Hariri and 22 other people in a 2005 blast in downtown Beirut .
Hezbollah denies involvement and promises a backlash if its members are indicted .
Hezbollah , part of the nation 's fragile political coalition , is deemed a terrorist group by Western nations .
Some economists say cyclone damage to Burma 's key rice-growing areas might cut supplies of the key food and lead to a further increase in global rice prices .
Burma , also known as Myanmar , was expected to export about 400,000 metric tons of rice this year .
The President of the Thai Rice Exporters Association , Chookiat Ophaswongse , says in a story by the Bloomberg financial news service that , Burma may now have to import rice instead .
Rice is the staple food for about half of the world 's population and its prices hit record highs in late April after some other rice-producing nations put restrictions on some exports .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has begun a visit to Brazil for talks with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva on energy cooperation and regional issues .
President Chavez arrived in the northern city of Recife Wednesday to meet with the Brazilian leader and tour the construction site of a refinery that , once completed , is expected to process 200,000 barrels of oil daily .
Officials have said the project will involve Brazil 's state-run Petrobras oil company and Venezuela 's state-run Petroleos de Venezuela , PDVSA .
Separately , the presidents were expected to discuss Venezuela 's pending membership in the South American trade bloc , Mercosur , which groups Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay .
Mercosur accounts for $ 1 trillion in annual economic activity and includes 250 million people .
Former Croatian General Ante Gotovina , who many Croats still consider a hero , goes on trial Tuesday in The Hague for war crimes committed during the closing months of the war in Croatia in 1995 .
The United Nations War Crimes Tribunal has charged Gotovina and two other ex-generals - Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac - with doing nothing while soldiers murdered at least 37 ethnic Serbs in Krajina .
The troops also burned and plundered villages , and stabbed civilians who tried to escape .
The court says some family members were forced to watch their relatives being killed .
All three defendants have pleaded not guilty .
Gotovina was indicted in 2001 but was at large until his arrest four years later in the Canary Islands .
Many Croats regard Gotovina as a national hero for re-taking Croatian land seized by Serb rebels .
Rescuers in Latin America have resumed their search Friday for survivors of mudslides and floodwaters triggered by Hurricane Stan .
At least 223 people have been killed and many others are missing in Latin America after several days of heavy rains , mudslides and flooding from the storm , which came ashore Tuesday on Mexico 's eastern Gulf Coast .
Rescuers in Guatemala Thursday pulled 40 bodies from a mudslide about 100 kilometers west of Guatemala City .
Scores of other people were killed in Mexico and Central America after the storm ripped through the region , knocking down power lines and ripping apart houses .
Tens of thousands of people fled their homes , and many remain homeless .
The United Nations says it is rushing assistance to El Salvador and Costa Rica , and remains ready to mobilize international support for emergency relief and recovery efforts .
Thousands of Cubans gathered around the U.S. diplomatic office in Havana Tuesday , to demonstrate against what President Fidel Castro has called " provocations " from Washington .
The marchers are protesting an electronic message board posted on the side of the building that since last week has been displaying passages from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and quotes from slain American civil rights leader , Martin Luther King .
Mr. Castro called for the march on Sunday during a speech on national television , accusing Washington of human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Tuesday 's march also was timed to coincide with the court appearance of Cuban exile Luis Posada Carriles , who is being held at a U.S. federal detention center on immigration charges .
Cuba says the Bush administration is protecting Posada Carriles , who is wanted for his alleged role in the bombing of a Cuban airliner in 1976 .
Ukrainian troops have joined their U.S. counterparts in NATO military exercises as tensions mount over the aspirations of former Soviet republics to enter the alliance .
The two-week NATO " Sea Breeze " exercises along the Black Sea coast also include forces from Armenia , Azerbaijan , Georgia , and key countries of western Europe .
Turkey , Macedonia and Latvia are also participating .
The exercises include naval and air maneuvers as well as large-scale armored exercises .
Separate maneuvers are being held this week in Georgia .
Armenian , Azerbaijani , Ukrainian and U.S. troops are participating .
Small groups of anti-NATO protesters were reported encamped along the Ukrainian coast .
Ukraine and Georgia are actively seeking NATO membership , despite official warnings that Moscow will not tolerate an additional NATO presence on its borders .
Last month , Ukraine 's pro-Western leadership hosted a NATO delegation , which was also confronted by several hundred anti-alliance protesters .
The native Amerindian population of Cuba began to decline after the European discovery of the island by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1492 and following its development as a Spanish colony during the next several centuries .
Large numbers of African slaves were imported to work the coffee and sugar plantations , and Havana became the launching point for the annual treasure fleets bound for Spain from Mexico and Peru .
Spanish rule eventually provoked an independence movement and occasional rebellions that were harshly suppressed .
US intervention during the Spanish-American War in 1898 assisted the Cubans in overthrowing Spanish rule .
The Treaty of Paris established Cuban independence from the US in 1902 after which the island experienced a string of governments mostly dominated by the military and corrupt politicians .
Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959 ; his iron rule held the subsequent regime together for nearly five decades .
He stepped down as president in February 2008 in favor of his younger brother Raul CASTRO . Cuba 's Communist revolution , with Soviet support , was exported throughout Latin America and Africa during the 1960s , 1970s , and 1980s .
The country faced a severe economic downturn in 1990 following the withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies worth $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion annually .
Cuba at times portrays the US embargo , in place since 1961 , as the source if its difficulties .
Illicit migration to the US - using homemade rafts , alien smugglers , air flights , or via the southwest border - is a continuing problem .
The US Coast Guard intercepted 982 individuals attempting to cross the Straits of Florida in fiscal year 2009 .
Several hundred inmates who escaped from a prison in Haiti are believed to still be at large Sunday , after an attack on the national penitentiary left one guard dead .
Haitian officials say as many as 500 of the prison 's 1,200 detainees may have escaped .
It is unclear how many have been recaptured .
The prisoners fled after gunmen fired on the facility Saturday .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes a government source as saying the raid was aimed at freeing drug traffickers .
Two high-ranking officials from the government of ousted Haitian President Jean Bertrand Aristide were among the prisoners who were quickly recaptured .
Haitian authorities say former Prime Minister Yvon Neptune and former Interior Minister Jocelerme Privert are back in custody .
Both men have yet to be indicted .
They are accused of violence against Aristide opponents .
Saturday is the last day for Iran 's presidential hopefuls to apply as candidates in the June election .
Applicants on the final day include former state broadcasting chief Ali Larijani , a conservative who once was an advisor to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .
Former foreign minister Ibrahim Yazdi also signed up for the ballot to elect a successor to President Mohammad Khatami .
Hundreds of people have applied to run in the election - among them highly favored two-time president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani .
The past chief of the national police , Bager Qalibaf , and the mayor of Tehran , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , are also seeking the presidency .
After the registration period ends , applicants will be screened by the Guardians Council , which will determine the make-up of the presidential ballot .
Family members carry coffin of police officer Mohamed Badr for burial in Baghdad Insurgents in Iraq launched a third straight day of stepped-up attacks Sunday , killing at least nine Iraqis .
Authorities say five Iraqi policemen manning a security checkpoint were shot to death in a surprise attack shortly after dawn .
Later , a car-bomb attack on a U.S. military convoy in southeast Baghdad killed at least four Iraqi civilians and injured 12 others .
Violence in Iraq has increased dramatically since Thursday , when the nation 's first democratically elected government was formed following the fall of Saddam Hussein .
Suicide attacks , car bombings and other guerrilla strikes in Baghdad and nearby areas have killed at least 75 people since Friday .
A powerful earthquake has shaken the area around Tibet in China .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the quake had a 6.9 magnitude and was centered about 245 kilometers north of Qamdo prefecture , which borders China 's Sichuan province .
At least one strong aftershock with a 5.2 magnitude struck about 30 minutes later .
There were no early reports about damage or injuries .
A massive 7.9 quake hit Sichuan province in 2008 , killing close to 90,000 people .
The U.S. military says one U.S. Marine and one Afghan government soldier have been killed in fighting with militants in eastern Afghanistan .
A military statement says four other Afghan soldiers were wounded in the clash Thursday as they tried to " disrupt enemy forces " in Kunar province to prepare for next month 's parliamentary elections .
The wounded Afghan soldiers were taken to a nearby U.S. base in the city of Asadabad for treatment .
Two of them later returned to duty .
The deaths came on the same day that two U.S. soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in the southern province of Kandahar .
Violence in Afghanistan has surged in recent months as Taleban insurgents try to sabotage next month 's parliamentary polls .
South Africa 's ruling party has promised to improve services and create jobs for the country 's poor majority .
President Thabo Mbeki unveiled a $ 65 billion spending plan Sunday at a rally launching the African National Congress ' campaign for municipal elections .
The ANC 's election manifesto says the money would be used to build roads , dams , power plants , rail networks , and communications infrastructure .
It says every household will have access to running water , electricity , and decent sanitation by 2012 .
The ANC has ruled South Africa since the end of apartheid in 1994 but faces growing dissent over poor basic services and Mr. Mbeki 's firing of popular Deputy President Jacob Zuma .
The ANC says Mr. Zuma , who faces rape and corruption charges , will still help the party campaign for the March 1 elections .
A medical official in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , says at least 17 people have been killed in fighting between Islamist militants and government forces .
Ali Muse , who is head of Mogadishu 's ambulance service , says at least 45 others were wounded in the fighting Wednesday .
Mogadishu residents say insurgents attacked African Union peacekeepers , prompting soldiers to launch an artillery barrage .
Many of those killed died when shells landed in the city 's busy Bakara market .
Insurgent groups al-Shabab and Hizbul Islam are trying to topple the government and establish a strict Islamic state .
The current government controls only parts of Mogadishu and relies on AU peacekeepers in order to stay in power .
Somalia has experienced nearly two decades of violence and lawlessness since the fall of the last functioning central government .
Former U.S. president Bill Clinton has signed an agreement with the Cambodian government to expand medical treatment for children living with H.I.V. and AIDS .
Mr. Clinton and Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen signed the deal Monday in the capital , Phnom Penh .
The former president is in Cambodia to tour AIDS-related projects and local organizations supported by his development group , the Clinton Foundation H.I.V./AIDS Initiative .
Mr. Clinton praised the government for making " steadfast " efforts to fight H.I.V . He said there is hope Cambodia can be a model for the rest of Asia and possibly the world .
Cambodia has reduced adult infection rates from about three percent in 1998 , to just under two percent in 2004 .
The country still has one of the highest AIDS prevalence rates in the region .
Prime Minister Hun Sen says Mr. Clinton 's visit will raise awareness about H.I.V. and help prevent discrimination against people living with the virus .
The Organization of American States says it will send election observers to monitor Suriname 's parliamentary elections to be held May 25 .
The OAS and Suriname officials agreed to the monitors Friday in Washington .
The ruling coalition in Suriname faces opposition from the National Democratic Party , which says its leader , former dictator Desi Bouterse , would become president if the party wins the elections .
The United States has warned that relations with Suriname would suffer if Bouterse takes power .
He was convicted in the Netherlands six years ago for illegal drug trafficking , and sentenced to 11 years in prison .
However , he was never sent to the Netherlands as the two countries do not have an extradition agreement .
Bouterse , who is an elected member of parliament , led a successful military coup in Suriname in 1980 , and ruled the South American country for nearly a decade .
The founder of Microsoft , Bill Gates , has received a rousing welcome in Vietnam by thousands of university students eager for a glimpse of the world 's richest man .
Students climbed trees and pushed through crowds at Hanoi University Saturday , where Gates was delivering a speech on information technology .
Earlier , Gates met Prime Minister Phan Van Khai and President Tran Duc Luong , who both took time away from the ruling Communist Party National Congress .
During the meeting , the Vietnamese leaders and Gates signed an agreement to use Microsoft software in Vietnam 's government systems .
Gates ' trip to Hanoi is seen as another major boost for Vietnam 's high-tech sector .
Earlier this year , the government landed a high tech deal when leading chipmaker Intel Corporation announced it was building a plant in the country .
German authorities have released a Lebanese man arrested in connection with an alleged plot against Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi .
But prosecutors have issued arrest orders against three others accused of planning to attack Mr. Allawi during his visit to Germany last week .
Prosecutors identified the three as suspected members of the Islamic militant group Ansar al-Islam , which U.S. authorities have linked to al-Qaida .
Authorities detained the suspects in several German cities just hours before a meeting Friday between Mr. Allawi and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder in Berlin .
The Iraqi leader changed his travel plans after the alleged plot was uncovered .
Reports from Iran say police have exchanged gunfire with militants following an explosion near a school in the southeastern part of the country .
Iranian news agencies said late Friday that police in the city of Zahedan cordoned off the neighborhood where the incident took place .
Electrical power to the area was cut off .
It is not clear if there were casualties .
On Wednesday , a car bomb blast in the same city killed 11 Iranian Revolutionary Guards .
A Sunni Muslim group , Jundollah , claimed responsibility for that attack .
Officials say the group is linked to al-Qaida .
Zahedan is the capital of Sistan-Baluchistan province , which borders Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Iran has accused the United States of backing militants in the sensitive border area to destabilize the country .
Burmese officials say ethnic Karen rebels attacked a convoy of trucks and buses on a highway in southern Burma , killing eight people and wounding 15 others .
Officials say a gunfight broke out between security forces and the Karen National Union rebels during the pre-dawn attack Thursday on two trucks and 12 passenger buses along the Dawei-Ye highway between Dawei and Rangoon .
Among the dead were a university student and a teacher .
The vehicles included two buses carrying students and lecturers from Dawei University .
The rebels are reported to have taken about $ 3,400 in cash and jewelry from passengers before the gunmen fled .
The KNU is the only major rebel group not to have signed a cease-fire with the military government .
The World Health Organization says a massive shortfall of a key malaria drug will last well into next year , leaving poor countries with about half of what they need to fight the disease .
The WHO says Chinese suppliers have not shipped enough of a key ingredient used to make anti-malaria drugs to companies which manufacture the combination therapy .
The ingredient , called artemisinin , is extracted from a plant primarily grown in China .
The WHO says it will set up a system of priorities to deliver the drug to those who need it most .
It says the combination therapy is the most effective way to fight the deadliest form of malaria , called falciparum .
The mosquito-born disease has become resistant to treatment with older , more traditional medication .
The WHO estimates that malaria kills more than one million people worldwide , with more than 90 percent of fatalities occurring in sub-Saharan Africa .
The popular Web site Twitter is now functioning after a cyber attack took the service offline for several hours .
Twitter said in a status blog earlier Thursday it was " defending against a denial-of-service attack . "
Users of the social networking Web site Facebook also encountered problems on Thursday .
Unlike Twitter , Facebook never became completely inaccessible , but users did experience long delays while accessing their online profiles .
It is not clear if the attacks on the Web sites are related , but Twitter and Facebook officials say they are working with online search engine Google to investigate .
Even though both sites are now functioning , Twitter says users will continue to experience longer load times and slow response .
The Twitter outage follows a wave of similar cyber attacks last month that disrupted access to several high-profile U.S. Web sites , including the White House site .
A group of Israeli actors , writers and directors is vowing not to perform in Jewish settlements in the West Bank .
More than 50 members of Israel 's theater community have signed a petition to boycott performances at a state-funded theater in the northern West Bank settlement of Ariel .
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his Cabinet Sunday that the Israeli government does not need to provide funding to the performers taking part in the boycott .
Mr. Netanyahu said the performers ' actions play into the hands of international efforts to delegitimize Israel with economic and cultural boycotts .
The protest comes as Israeli and Palestinian leaders prepare to meet in Washington this week to resume stalled Middle East peace talks .
Both Israelis and Palestinians say they hold little hope that U.S.-mediated direct talks will yield any results or make progress toward ending the decades-old conflict in the Middle East .
The U.S. military says coalition forces have killed 25 militants and arrested 10 more during a series of raids across Afghanistan .
A military statement says 15 militants were killed Wednesday during a raid on suspected militants in the southern city of Kandahar .
The U.S. says two other operations took place in southeastern Afghanistan , where ten militants were killed in separate raids .
Elsewhere , government officials say unknown gunmen killed five police officers in southern Helmand province .
Authorities suspect fellow police officers linked to the Taliban may have taken part in the deadly attack .
Five other police officers also went missing .
European Union officials have confirmed the first outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu in an EU country this year .
European Commission officials say laboratory tests have confirmed the presence of the deadly strain in geese found dead in Csongrad County in southeastern Hungary .
They say tests were conducted because of an abnormally high mortality rate among the birds .
Hungarian officials have slaughtered all 3,000 birds in the affected flock .
They also have set up a three-kilometer protection zone and a 10-kilometer surveillance zone around the area .
The discovery is the first in an EU country since last August .
EU experts are to meet Friday to review the situation .
Meanwhile , Croatia has banned poultry imports from Hungary following the announcement .
Bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
The United States and North Korea have held a third one-on-one meeting as they seek to narrow still wide differences on how to dismantle Pyongyang 's nuclear program .
U.S. officials say U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill and North Korean Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye-gwan met for two hours Thursday in Beijing , on the sidelines of the six-nation negotiations being hosted by China .
There was no immediate word on how the talks went or what was discussed .
Wednesday the United States and North Korea each said the other must make the first move to denuclearize the Korean peninsula .
The six-nation talks include the two Koreas , the United States , China , Japan and Russia .
The Czech Republic is a stable and prosperous market economy , which harmonized its laws and regulations with those of the EU prior to its EU accession in 2004 .
While the conservative , inward looking Czech financial system has remained relative healthy , the small , open , export-driven Czech economy remains very sensitive to changes in the economic performance of its main export markets , especially Germany .
When Western Europe and Germany fell into recession in late 2008 , demand for Czech goods plunged , leading to double digit drops in industrial production and exports .
As a result , real GDP fell 4.1 % in 2009 , with most of the decline occurring during the first quarter .
Real GDP , however , has slowly recovered with positive quarter-on-quarter growth starting in the second half of 2009 and continuing throughout 2010 .
The auto industry remains the largest single industry and , together with its suppliers , accounts for as much as 20 % of Czech manufacturing .
The Czech Republic produced more than a million cars for the first time in 2010 , over 80 % of which were exported .
Foreign and domestic businesses alike voice concerns about corruption , especially in public procurement .
Other long term challenges include dealing with a rapidly aging population , funding an unsustainable pension and health care system , and diversifying away from manufacturing and toward a more high-tech , services-based , knowledge economy .
If the housing crisis is not pressing enough , rising credit card debt is creating more hardship for many Americans .
An analysis by the newspaper USA Today shows credit card debt grew between 2001 and early 2006 , fueled in part , by rising home equity , the value of a home minus its outstanding loans .
Some consumer advocates blame the banking industry for taking advantage of homeowners who now find themselves in a credit trap .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Krygyz President Kurmanbek Bakiyev says he is ready for any new proposals from the U.S. government to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan .
Mr. Bakiyev made his comments to the British Broadcasting Corporation Wednesday .
But Kyrgyz officials said Thursday the government will not reverse its decision to evict U.S. forces from a key military base that supports Western troops in Afghanistan .
Last week , Kyrgyzstan ordered U.S. forces to leave the Manas air base within six months after President Bakiyev signed the decision into law .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he believes the issue is not " closed , " and that the U.S. will try to reach a new agreement with Kyrgyzstan .
As an alternative , Gates said the U.S. is considering other supply routes .
Manas Air Base is currently the only U.S. military supply route in Central Asia .
A top U.S. military officer said Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have agreed to allow the transit of non-lethal U.S. cargo through their territory to Afghanistan .
Washington also has received permission from Russia and Kazakhstan to send supplies to Afghanistan by rail .
President Bakiyev had complained that Washington was not paying enough rent for the base .
He announced plans to close it after Russia pledged to give Kyrgyzstan about $ 2 billion in loans and aid .
Most U.S. and NATO shipments into Afghanistan have been arriving by road through Pakistan , but those convoys have increasingly come under attack from Taliban and al-Qaida militants .
Cote d'Ivoire is heavily dependent on agriculture and related activities , which engage roughly 68 % of the population .
Cote d'Ivoire is the world 's largest producer and exporter of cocoa beans and a significant producer and exporter of coffee and palm oil .
Consequently , the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations in international prices for these products , and , to a lesser extent , in climatic conditions .
Cocoa , oil , and coffee are the country 's top export revenue earners , but the country is also producing gold .
Since the end of the civil war in 2003 , political turmoil has continued to damage the economy , resulting in the loss of foreign investment and slow economic growth .
GDP grew by more than 2 % in 2008 and around 4 % per year in 2009 - 10 .
Per capita income has declined by 15 % since 1999 , but registered a slight improvement in 2009 - 10 .
Power cuts caused by a turbine failure in early 2010 slowed economic activity .
Cote d'Ivoire in 2010 signed agreements to restructure its Paris Club bilateral , other bilateral , and London Club debt .
Cote d'Ivoire 's long term challenges include political instability and degrading infrastructure .
A group of armed men stormed into a bar in western Mexico and threw five human heads on the floor in an incident apparently linked to illegal drug trafficking .
Witnesses say the 20 men fired shots in the air as they entered the bar in Michoacan state before dawn Wednesday .
The group also left a note saying the killings were part of what it called " divine justice . "
Officials say relatives of three of the victims had identified their bodies and claimed they were not connected to illegal drug gangs .
Mexican police have found several victims from similar attacks earlier this year .
Mexico 's President-elect Felipe Calderon has vowed to crack down on violent crime when he takes office in December .
A Libyan official is denying reports that up to 20 Somali prisoners have been killed during an attempted jailbreak in the city of Banghazi .
Libya 's ambassador to Somalia told reporters in Mogadishu Tuesday that there was no prison escape that he is aware of , and that no Somali prisoners have been killed .
On Monday , VOA 's Somali service interviewed a prisoner , Abdullahi Abdi Siad , who said five inmates were killed when guards opened fire during the escape attempt .
The prisoner added that guards put the death toll at 20 .
That is the number reported Tuesday by two Somali news outlets .
Britain has pressured Libya to improve conditions in its prisons , which were once notorious for overcrowding , poor sanitation , and poor health care .
The British Foreign Office says on its Web site that conditions have improved in recent years , though overcrowding remains a problem .
The government of Nepal is responding to international criticism of controversial municipal elections held earlier this week .
A statement from Nepal 's foreign ministry Saturday called the criticism objectionable and unacceptable .
The statement further urged foreign governments to refrain from making what it described as " insolent comments " about Nepal 's internal affairs .
The response followed allegations by several other countries , including India , Japan , Britain and the United States , who all said Wednesday 's vote was flawed .
Seven major opposition parties boycotted the vote and the election sparked almost daily anti-government demonstrations .
The vice chairman of Nepal 's cabinet , the royal council of ministers , Tulsi Giri , is promising to proceed with general elections in April regardless of whether opposition parties participate .
King Gyanendra took absolute power last year with a promise to crush the Maoist rebellion and restore multi-party democracy .
Venezuelan authorities say a new outbreak of fighting among inmates at a crowded prison has left six more prisoners dead .
Earlier this week , 16 prisoners were killed at Uribana prison when rival gangs fought for control of two cell blocks .
National guard troops were called to maintain order at the prison , located west of the capital , Caracas .
Riots , murders and other violence are common in Venezuela 's overcrowded prisons .
An independent kingdom for much of its long history , Korea was occupied by Japan beginning in 1905 following the Russo-Japanese War .
Five years later , Japan formally annexed the entire peninsula .
Following World War II , Korea was split with the northern half coming under Soviet-sponsored Communist control .
After failing in the Korean War ( 1950 - 53 ) to conquer the US-backed Republic of Korea ( ROK ) in the southern portion by force , North Korea ( DPRK ) , under its founder President KIM Il Sung , adopted a policy of ostensible diplomatic and economic " self-reliance " as a check against outside influence .
The DPRK demonized the US as the ultimate threat to its social system through state-funded propaganda , and molded political , economic , and military policies around the core ideological objective of eventual unification of Korea under Pyongyang 's control .
KIM Il Sung 's son , the current ruler KIM Jong Il , was officially designated as his father 's successor in 1980 , assuming a growing political and managerial role until the elder KIM 's death in 1994 .
In 2010 , KIM Jong Il began the process of preparing the way for his youngest son , KIM Jong Un , to succeed him in power .
After decades of economic mismanagement and resource misallocation , the DPRK since the mid-1990s has relied heavily on international aid to feed its population .
North Korea 's history of regional military provocations , proliferation of military-related items , long-range missile development , WMD programs including tests of nuclear devices in 2006 and 2009 , and massive conventional armed forces are of major concern to the international community .
The regime has marked 2012 , the centenary of KIM Il Sung 's birth , a banner year ; to that end , the country has been focused on development of the economy .
Palestinian security officials say a clash between Israeli troops and Palestinian militants near the West Bank town of Jenin has left three militants dead .
The officials identified the victims as a local leader of the Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and two members of Islamic Jihad .
They say the fighting erupted when Israeli troops raided Jenin early Thursday morning .
Wednesday , Israel 's military warned it may bombard the Gaza Strip town of Beit Hanoun , if necessary , to stop Palestinian rocket fire into Israel .
The militants have been firing rockets from the area , despite earlier pledges to stop such attacks .
In Washington , a State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has been pressing both sides to end the violence .
President Bush is to meet with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas at the White House next month for talks on peace efforts .
Two neighbors had been fighting each other for nigh on four decades .
Bob buys a Great Dane and teaches it to use the bathroom in Bill 's yard .
For one whole year Bill ignores the dog .
So Bob then buys a cow and teaches it to use the bathroom in Bill 's yard .
After about a year and a half of Bob 's cow crapping in Bill 's yard ; being ignored all the while , a semi pulls up in front of Bill 's house .
Bob runs over and demands to know what 's in the 18-wheeler .
' My new pet elephant , ' Bill replies solemly .
The U.S. official overseeing relief efforts for Hurricane Katrina says rescuers are finding many fewer bodies than expected .
In an interview with the television program Fox News Sunday , Coast Guard Vice Admiral Thad Allen said it was hard to estimate a final death toll from the disaster .
But the admiral joined a growing chorus of officials suggesting fears that Katrina killed up to 10,000 people may be unfounded .
Authorities continue a block-by-block search for bodies in the city of New Orleans as floodwaters there continue to recede .
The official death from Katrina toll now stands at nearly 400 , with 154 in New Orleans .
President Bush returns to the southern U.S. coast later Sunday to get a first-hand look at the cleanup and recovery effort .
A top World Health Organization official says the H1N1 swine flu virus is " unstoppable " and says every country needs the vaccine .
WHO vaccine research chief Marie-Paule Kieny said Monday that health care workers should get immunized first because they are needed during an outbreak .
She said authorities must then decide who gets shots next .
Swine flu is mild in healthy people and most victims do not need hospitalization .
But the virus can be severe and even deadly in those with other serious health concerns , including asthma and pregnancy .
Researchers also say that extreme obesity is now considered a risk factor for a severe reaction .
Meanwhile , officials in Britain , Thailand , and the Philippines all reported new swine flu deaths Monday .
The latest WHO report confirms nearly 95,000 swine flu cases around the world , with 429 deaths .
Center-left candidate Alvaro Colom is holding the lead as official return are counted from Guatemala 's run-off presidential election .
With ballots from 68 percent of the nation 's polling stations counted Sunday night , Colom had 51.4 percent of the vote , to 41.6 percent for retired General Otto Perez Molina .
Colom and Perez were the top two finishers in the first-round presidential election , in September .
Perez based his campaign on pledges to fight crime and combat drug trafficking .
Colom 's platform focused on poverty issues .
About 50 people died in election-related violence before September 's vote , making it the deadliest political campaign since Guatemala 's 36-year civil war ended in 1996 .
Gunmen in Guatemala City killed a Perez aide last month .
The retired general has linked the killing to his vow to crack down on drug trafficking .
Democratic U.S. Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware has announced he is seeking his party 's 2008 presidential nomination .
Biden announced his intention to enter the race on American television Wednesday .
Biden is currently the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and is a prominent critic of President Bush 's Iraq war strategy .
On his campaign web site , the senator highlights his plan for Iraq , which calls for most U.S. troops to withdraw by the end of 2007 .
Biden has served in the U.S. Senate for more than 30 years .
He lost a previous bid for the Democratic nomination in 1988 .
More candidates are expected to join the race to be the Democratic Party 's nominee , a field that has been dominated so far by popular senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama .
Tidal waves caused by the massive Asian earthquake have killed at least 10 people on Africa 's east coast with a number of other tourists and residents reported missing .
Authorities from Somalia to South Africa and the Indian Ocean islands have urged people to move inland .
At least one death is reported in Kenya while the Associated Press reports nine drowned in Somalia .
High waves have also smashed a number of fishing boats and left parts of the island of Rodrigues under water .
The Russian men 's ice hockey team has stormed into the Olympic tournament quarterfinals in Turin , Italy with a dominating 9-2 victory over Latvia .
After dropping the opener to Slovakia , 5-3 , Russia has won three straight games by a combined score of 15-2 .
Ilya Kovalchuk scored four goals Sunday with two in each of the first two periods .
Russian goaltender Evgeni Nabokov posted consecutive shutout victories over Sweden and Kazakhstan with 48 saves .
Although he allowed one goal by Latvia , he faced only seven shots in two periods before being replaced by his back-up .
Russia 's victory put the eight-time Olympic champions into the quarterfinals and also clinched a spot for Sweden .
Slovakia advanced with a win over the United States ( 2-1 ) on Saturday , leaving one remaining spot from Group-B .
Lawmakers in Chad have voted to relax controls on the use of the country 's oil revenue despite objections from the World Bank .
The new legislation abolishes a fund that reserved 10 percent of oil revenue for future generations .
It also doubles the share of revenues to be made available to the public treasury and makes security one of the priority sectors where the money can be spent .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz said in a statement Thursday the legislation is a material breach of the original agreement the bank made with Chad .
He says it harms the well-being of Chad 's poorest and most vulnerable citizens .
The bank provided money for Chad 's oil industry with the condition that the central African nation use the profits to reduce poverty .
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an alliance with him to their mutual advantage .
The Lion replied , " I have no objection , but you must excuse me for requiring you to find surety for your good faith , for how can I trust anyone as a friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he pleases ? '
Try before you trust .
U.N. special envoy Terje Roed-Larsen has met with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to press international demands for a full and rapid withdrawal of all Syrian troops from Lebanon .
A spokesman for the U.N. envoy said Mr. Roed-Larsen and Mr. Assad have been meeting Saturday in the northern city of Aleppo .
The spokesman gave no details of the discussions .
Mr. Roed-Larsen was expected to tell the Syrian president his country faces political and economic isolation if he does not quickly withdraw all Syrian troops .
The meeting came after a large convoy of Syrian forces returned home Saturday from positions in northern Lebanon .
However , thousands of Syrian troops are still located elsewhere in the country .
Police in the Iraqi city of Najaf say at least three civilians have been killed in a car bombing Saturday , less than a week after an attack there killed 52 people .
Initial details are sketchy , but police say the incident occurred on the highway between the Shi'ite holy cities of Najaf and Karbala and appeared to have targeted a U.S. military convoy .
There was no word on whether there were U.S. casualties .
Meanwhile , Najaf 's governor says police have arrested a group of men suspected of having organized last Sunday 's attack and an announcement would be made in Baghdad next week .
In Baghdad , it was a bleak Christmas for the city 's small Christian community .
Further unnerved by an apparent suicide attack Christmas Eve that killed nine people , the city 's churches were mostly empty today .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is considering holding presidential elections in April , four months earlier than an election date set by the country 's Independent Election Commission .
Afghanistan 's constitution requires that the presidential election be held by April 21 , one month before Mr. Karzai 's five-year term expires .
Last month , Afghan election chief , Azizullah Lodin , said the commission decided to reschedule the vote for August to give incoming U.S. forces time to stabilize the country .
But opposition leaders have insisted that Mr. Karzai step down when his term expires in May and install a caretaker government .
U.S. support for the embattled president came into question after the Obama administration openly accused Mr. Karzai of failing to crack down on government corruption .
Colombian officials say 552 right-wing paramilitary fighters have turned over their weapons as part of an on-going peace agreement with the government .
Colombia 's Peace Commission says the weapons were turned in at a ceremony Thursday in Santuario , nearly 300 kilometers west of the capital , Bogota .
The militia men were from a group known as the Heroes and Martyrs of Guatica , a faction of the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia .
Peace Commissioner Luis Carlos Restrepo attended the ceremony , along with other officials .
The commission says more than 13,000 paramilitary fighters have now turned over their weapons and will take part in programs designed to reintegrate the fighters into society .
Colombia has been mired in a nearly 40-year conflict between leftist rebels , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Egypt has freed a blogger who served a four-year prison term on a conviction of insulting Islam and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
Human rights groups and a relative said Wednesday that Egyptian security officials freed Abdel Kareem Nabil earlier this week .
The Cairo-based Arabic Network for Human Rights and Information says he was beaten while in detention .
Nabil , who is also known as Kareem Amer , was attending a university before authorities convicted him in 2006 .
He was the first blogger in Egypt to be sentenced specifically for his writings .
Last week , human rights groups called for his release , saying he had been held beyond his four-year prison sentence .
Egyptian officials have not explained why he remained imprisoned about a week-and-a-half beyond his term .
The Reporters Without Borders rights group says Amer was subjected to " appalling conditions " while in detention and that he has described being tortured .
Pakistani officials say troops backed by fighter aircraft pounded three militant hideouts Sunday in northwestern Pakistan , killing at least 10 suspected insurgents in the troubled Orakzai tribal district .
The assault came a day after fighter jets bombed a militant stronghold in the neighboring Khyber tribal region on the Afghan border , killing 45 people .
Pakistani officials said Saturday 's strike took place in the valley of Tirah .
Khyber is the main supply route for NATO troops through Pakistan into Afghanistan .
Militants are blamed for frequent attacks on NATO convoys traveling through the region .
Pakistan 's military has recently stepped up offensives in Khyber and Orakzai .
Officials say more than 300 militants have been killed so far in the fighting .
Israeli and Palestinian officials met Friday to discuss the agenda of an upcoming summit between Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
Officials on both sides characterized the talks in Tel Aviv as " positive , " and said a second preparatory session is planned , possibly for Sunday .
King Abdullah of Jordan said this week that Mr. Abbas and Mr. Sharon would meet next Tuesday , but Israeli and Palestinian officials say that is only likely if an agreement can be reached on the meeting 's agenda .
Palestinian officials say they will use the summit to ask Israel to release Palestinian prisoners , ease roadblocks and withdraw troops from West Bank towns .
Israel wants the Palestinian Authority to disarm militants .
The two leaders were originally scheduled to meet this past Sunday .
But the summit was canceled in the wake of renewed violence .
A prominent Russian newspaper says investigators have identified a teenager as one of two suicide bombers responsible for Monday 's attacks that killed 39 people in two Moscow subway stations .
Kommersant said Friday 17-year-old Dzhennet Abdurakhmanova , the widow of a slain Caucasus militant , was one of the bombers .
The newspaper published a photograph of the young woman in a Muslim headscarf with her late husband Umalat Magomedov .
The Kommersant reports authorities have not yet officially identified the second bomber , but she is believed to be 20-year-old Markha Ustarkhanova from Chechnya .
Ustarkhanova is the widow of a Chechen militant who was killed last year while allegedly preparing for an assassination attempt on Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov .
Thousands of military personnel from several countries have been deployed to hard-hit areas of the Indian Ocean tsunami .
Worldwide public and private aid pledges now top $ 5 billion , but those contributions do not include the cost of the military personnel that relief workers say are urgently needed to deliver aid to remote areas .
The United Nations-coordinated effort includes 16,000 U.S. forces , 16,000 Indian troops and 350 Australian military personnel .
Pakistan and Spain each plan to deploy some 500 military personnel .
Japan expects to send about 1,000 troops .
Countries as far away as Switzerland , Germany and Russia have contributed aircraft , ships and tons of supplies for the relief effort .
Large so-called " floating hospitals , " capable of purifying water and accommodating hundreds of victims , also have been deployed to the region .
The full U.S. Senate begins debate Monday on the nomination of John Roberts as chief justice of the United States .
Mr. Roberts appears to have more than enough votes to be confirmed in the Republican-controlled Senate .
At least nine Democrats have pledged their support for the conservative judge , along with all 55 Republican senators .
Confirmation requires a simple majority of the 100 senators .
A final vote is expected to take place Thursday .
With Mr. Roberts ' confirmation virtually assured , many lawmakers are turning their attention to President Bush 's next nomination to the Supreme Court .
Many senators are urging Mr. Bush to pick a moderate candidate to succeed Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , who announced her retirement in July .
The U.S. military has drafted a document that calls for nuclear strikes against nations or terrorist groups to prevent them from using weapons of mass destruction against the United States or its allies .
The document ( " Doctrine for Joint Nuclear Operations " ) was drafted in March .
It updates a 1995 version from the Clinton administration to reflect President Bush 's doctrine of pre-emptive military strikes against nations or groups posing a threat to the United States .
The document outlines a number of scenarios for the use of nuclear weapons , which would require the approval of the president .
The revised draft has yet to become official policy .
The document envisions the use of earth-penetrating nuclear weapons to destroy deeply buried weapons .
The Bush administration has been looking to develop the so-called " bunker-busters , " but U.S. Congress stopped funding the program last year .
Election results from Colombia show the ruling coalition of President Alvaro Uribe has won a strong majority in the country 's Congress .
With most of the ballots counted from Sunday 's vote , parties loyal to Mr. Uribe are projected to win more than 60 Senate seats in the 102-member upper house .
Colombian voters also selected 166 members of the lower house of Congress .
Mr. Uribe 's coalition fared much better than pollsters had expected , and the results could give a boost to his campaign for re-election in May .
Mr. Uribe is seeking a second four-year term as president to continue the struggle against the leftist guerilla group FARC ( the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ) .
He called on the FARC to abandon its four-decade old insurgency and resume the stalled peace process .
Sunday 's congressional elections were largely peaceful , and polling stations were protected by a large security force of 200,000 troops .
A D.C. federal judge has ruled that begging is a form of free speech protected by the Constitution .
The U.S. government says it 's a crime to give false weather reports .
In Washington D.C. it is illegal to post a notice in public which calls another person a ' coward ' for refusing to accept a challenge to duel .
Spain 's top anti-terrorism judge has indicted eight Islamic militants for allegedly helping a suspected mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the United States .
Judge Baltasar Garzon Monday formally charged the eight with providing fake identity papers and other documents to Ramzi Binalshibh .
He is in U.S. custody , suspected of being the contact between al-Qaida and the September 11 hijackers .
One of the suspects charged Monday - Tahar Ezirouali - is still at large and was indicted in absentia .
Nepalese army officials say the kingdom 's Maoist rebels killed four people and injured at least 11 in two separate attacks Monday .
Officials say three soldiers and one civilian died in a clash at an army checkpoint about 30 kilometers from the capital , Kathmandu .
Police said at least 11 people were injured when a bomb exploded in a market in Pokhara , about 200 kilometers west of the capital .
On Sunday , government troops killed at least 16 Maoists following a rebel assault on a security patrol in western Nepal .
At least five soldiers were wounded .
Rebel attacks have increased since The Maoists broke a ceasefire last month .
They are fighting to establish a single party communist republic .
About 13,000 people have been killed in the fighting .
Iraq 's national assembly met Tuesday for only the second time since its election in January , but the session ended in chaos when lawmakers failed to agree on a parliament speaker .
The meeting began nearly three hours late , with the chairman 's announcement that Sunni Muslim deputies had failed to nominate a speaker from among their ranks .
He then declared the session over and said a vote would not take place before Sunday .
Several of the assembly 's 275-members immediately called for an explanation , with one legislator asking , " what shall we tell the voters ? " Outgoing interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi stormed out in frustration , and the media were expelled .
Meanwhile , in the northern city of Kirkuk , a car bomb explosion killed one person and injured at least a dozen others .
Separately , three Romanian journalists were reported kidnapped .
Continuing concerns about European economies sent gold prices up and pushed stock and oil prices down sharply on Friday .
The euro currency also dropped sharply .
Debt problems in Greece and other nations have prompted governments to slash spending , which could slow economic growth .
Worried investors sold euros and sought the perceived safety of gold investments .
The precious metal rose to a new record high of nearly $ 1,250 before declining .
Oil prices fell as traders calculated that slower economic growth would cut energy demand .
Those same concerns pushed the major French stock index down more than four percent and slashed Spanish stocks more than six percent .
The press freedom group Reporters Without Borders has condemned the decision by Venezuelan President Hugh Chavez to shut down one of the country 's oldest television stations The group issued a statement Friday calling the move " a serious attack against editorial pluralism . "
Mr. Chavez announced Thursday that his government will not renew the broadcast license for Radio Caracas Television , or RCTV .
The station is one of Venezuela 's main private stations and has been critical of the president .
Mr. Chavez accused RCTV of plotting against him .
He also said he will not tolerate any media outlets that support efforts to remove him from power .
The license for RCTV expires in March .
Reporters Without Borders urged Venezuela 's government to reconsider its stance and guarantee an independent system of granting and renewing broadcast rights .
The head of Russia 's state arms trading agency says Russia has signed contracts to sell Venezuela 24 jet fighter planes and 53 military helicopters .
Details of the deal were not immediately clear .
But the head of Russia 's arms export agency said the two countries have signed contracts for Venezuelan purchase of some $ 3 billion worth of military equipment over the last 18 months .
His comments came as Russian President Vladimir Putin and Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez met in Moscow .
The newly acquired Russian fighter planes are expected to replace a fleet of U.S.-made F-16 fighter jets .
Venezuelan authorities say they have not been able to buy spare parts for the F-16s since Washington imposed an arms embargo on Venezuela earlier this year .
Mr. Putin said Thursday the contracts are not directed against other states .
He said they are aimed at developing the economies of the two countries .
The billionaire founder of Facebook , and 16 other extremely wealthy individuals and families in the United States have agreed to give most of their fortunes to charity .
Mark Zuckerberg 's social media empire is estimated to have earned him $ 6.9 billion .
The 26-year old entrepreneur says some wealthy people wait until late in their lives to give back .
He says it is a mistake to wait " when there is so much to be done . "
The new donors have joined a charitable project called the " Giving Pledge " started by billionaires Warren Buffett and Bill Gates .
The group now has 57 members and is looking for new recruits outside the United States .
The pledges come at a time when the economic crisis has increased the need for social services and decreased overall charitable donations .
Venezuela and Mexico are recalling each others ambassadors , amid an escalating dispute between the countries ' presidents .
Venezuela has ordered the withdrawal of its ambassador to Mexico .
Mexican President Vicente Fox said on U.S. television ( CNN ) Monday that his country would also recall its ambassador .
Mr. Fox said he will not accept verbal attacks made on him by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
Mr. Chavez used his Sunday radio and television show to criticize Mr. Fox after last week 's Summit of the Americas , saying Mr. Fox was the U.S. government 's " cub " for supporting a U.S.-proposed Western Hemisphere free trade zone .
Today , Venezuela 's Foreign Minister Ali Rodriguez rejected Mexico 's demand that Venezuela apologize for the comments .
China has announced its sixth human bird flu death .
Chinese health officials said Wednesday a 35-year-old woman from Sichuan province died last week from the H5N1 strain .
Meanwhile , Turkish officials say bird flu killed an 11-year-old girl on her way to a hospital Wednesday .
And Iraqi health officials have sent samples to a lab , suspecting bird flu in the death of 14-year-old girl in the Kurdish city of Suleimaniya .
The news of the deaths came as international donors pledged nearly two billion dollars at a bird flu conference in Beijing , exceeding expectations .
The money will be used by poor countries to set up prevention programs .
U.N. officials say the virus - which has spread from southeast Asia and China into Turkey - could soon move into Africa and Europe with devastating effects .
Bird flu has killed more than 80 people since 2003 .
Tropical Storm Epsilon has been upgraded to a hurricane , a record 14th for this year .
Forecasters said Friday that Epsilon is east of Bermuda and is not expected to hit land .
The six-month hurricane season officially ended November 30 , the busiest period on record .
With 26 named storms , forecasters used up their list of designated names and resorted to marking the storms with letters of the Greek alphabet .
The season was also unusually intense .
Three hurricanes briefly reached the most violent Category Five status , with Katrina devastating New Orleans and other parts of the U.S. Gulf coast .
Some experts believe the intensity marks the beginning of a cycle expected to last more than a decade .
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan .
He fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its song .
When the time came for killing the Goose , the cook went to get him at night , when it was dark , and he was not able to distinguish one bird from the other .
By mistake he caught the Swan instead of the Goose .
The Swan , threatened with death , burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice , and preserved his life by his melody .
William Joy ( 37 ) , of Cookstown , Co. Tyrone , is paralysed from the waist down and confined to a wheelchair as a result of a fall from a bar stool in 1989 .
The High Court in Belfast heard during the week that Mr. Joy is suing Michael Newell , the man who owned the bar in which the accident occurred , for damages .
He claims that Mr. Newell was negligent for allowing him to sit on a 3 foot high stool while drunk .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz Pakistani Prime Minister says Pakistan wants the peaceful settlement of its dispute with India over Kashmir but will never accept the ceasefire Line of Control as a permanent border .
The dispute over the Himalayan region is at the heart of decades of tension between South Asia 's nuclear-armed rivals .
Speaking to legislators of Pakistani-ruled Kashmir in Muzaffarabad Thursday , Mr. Aziz said Pakistan has always emphasized that differences with India should be resolved through " meaningful and constructive " dialogue .
But he said Pakistan can not agree to any proposal that aims at converting the existing Line of Control into a permanent border .
He also said the ongoing peace process between the two rivals is irreversible and they will have to show courage and flexibility to continue the dialogue .
The Organization of American States has rejected Colombia 's recent raid against a rebel camp in Ecuador , saying the cross-border incursion was a clear violation of the OAS charter .
In a resolution after a meeting of foreign ministers and ambassadors that began Monday , the OAS also took note of Colombia 's apology for the incursion and its pledge to not carry out another raid .
Venezuela and Ecuador responded to the March 1 incursion by taking diplomatic action against Colombia and sending troops to the border with Colombia .
The leaders of all three countries have since said they have settled the crisis .
The raid killed more than 20 rebels with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , including a top rebel leader .
Chad 's government has acknowledged that its forces crossed into Sudanese territory Monday and clashed with Sudanese troops .
Reversing a previous denial of the incident , Chad 's Information Minister Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor said Tuesday that Chadian troops had crossed the border to pursue rebels they had been fighting in eastern Chad .
He said the clash occurred when Chad 's troops made contact with Sudan 's forces , whom he said had been deployed to protect the rebels ' retreat .
Sudan 's military says 17 of its soldiers were killed in the clash , and that its troops forced the Chadians back across the border .
Chad and Sudan have repeatedly accused each other of supporting the other country 's rebel movements .
Cross-border raids and incidents have continued despite mediation efforts by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
Both countries have refused the deployment of international peacekeepers on their border .
AIDS activists in South Africa are expressing outrage over testimony by former Deputy President Jacob Zuma at his trial on rape charges .
In court Wednesday , Zuma said he showered after having unprotected sex with his accuser in order to minimize the chance of acquiring AIDS .
Zuma 's 31-year-old accuser has HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Zuma is not infected .
He says the sexual contact was consensual .
AIDS activists say Zuma 's testimony undermines the nation 's prevention campaign .
They say it gives the impression that men who do not use a condom during intercourse with HIV-positive women are not at risk .
Some five million people in South Africa suffer from AIDS , the greatest number of any country in the world .
Zuma is the former head of South Africa 's AIDS Council .
South Africa 's government is often accused of not taking AIDS seriously .
Haitian Prime Minister Gerard Latortue has unveiled some new initiatives in memory of Jacques Roche , a local journalist who was kidnapped and murdered in Port-au-Prince last week .
In an interview with VOA 's Creole Service , Mr. Latortue said he will consult with Minister of Interior Paul Magloire on an initiative to name the street where the journalist 's body was found after Mr. Roche .
He also said the country will observe a day of mourning on July 21 , the day of Mr. Roche 's funeral .
Haitian authorities discovered Mr. Roche 's body last Thursday , four days after armed gunmen abducted him .
On other issues , Mr. Latortue said there is no doubt a presidential election will be held later this year despite on-going violence .
Haiti has seen a mounting wave of violence ahead of the election .
Hundreds of people have been killed since September .
Crude oil prices have again hit record highs .
The spike in prices Wednesday came after a U.S. government report said inventories of crude oil and gasoline declined last week .
The Bloomberg financial news service says U.S. crude oil briefly jumped to $ 71.79 a barrel before easing slightly .
In Britain , Brent crude rose to equal Tuesday 's record high of $ 72.64 .
Analysts say prices are being pushed up by worries that oil supplies from Iran and Nigeria might be disrupted by political disputes .
These concerns come at a time of strong demand for oil in the United States , China , and other big nations .
A FATHER , being on the point of death , wished to be sure that his sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had given it .
He called them to his bedside and said , " My sons , there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards . "
The sons , after his death , took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug over every portion of their land .
They found no treasure , but the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and superabundant crop .
A team of Dutch researchers says vaccinating chickens against bird flu can prevent a major outbreak of the disease by preventing transmission from bird to bird .
The finding was published in the American scientific journal , Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
Scientist Jeanet Van der Goot said the study showed vaccination reduced the infectiousness of chickens with avian flu as well as reducing the susceptibility of healthy chickens .
The study concludes that vaccination can be an attractive tool to prevent outbreaks of bird flu in poultry , thereby eliminating a source of human infections .
The Dutch study was conducted using a strain of the virus different from the H5N1 strain that has caused human fatalities .
The study says it takes about two weeks from the date of inoculation for a vaccine to protect a flock .
Iran has tested new Russian-built air defenses , as part of two-day war games off the Persian Gulf and Sea of Oman .
Iran 's Revolutionary Guard commander , Brigadier General Hossein Salami , told state-run media that the military and air force are " enhancing the defensive capabilities . "
He said they test-fired their new Russian defense missile system called TOR-M1 .
Russia completed delivery of the system last month .
Wednesday 's test comes as the United States moves a second aircraft carrier to the Gulf .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Friday the Bush administration is not planning to go to war with Iran .
The United States and other Western nations accuse Tehran of seeking nuclear weapons .
But Iran maintains its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes .
A top Spanish court has announced that it will no longer handle fast-track extraditions for Germany after that country refused to hand over a suspected al-Qaida member to Madrid .
The court , in Madrid , announced the policy change Wednesday , saying it will now revert to the the old , much slower way of processing extradition to Germany .
Spain 's move comes after Germany 's top court in July ordered the release of Mamoun Darkazanli , a dual German-Syrian citizen indicted in Spain as an al-Qaida suspect .
Germany 's Federal Constitutional court said the EU arrest warrant for Mr. Darkazanli violated the country 's constitution .
Spain is holding 50 suspects wanted by Germany on charges such as fraud , drug trafficking and robbery .
The Spanish court says it will give German authorities 40 days to present standard extradition documents .
If Germany fails to do so , Spain will release the suspects .
A Vatican delegation is meeting with officials in Iran this week to discuss ways of strengthening interfaith ties .
The visit , led by Cardinal Jean-Louis Tauran , is part of an ongoing attempt by the Vatican to reach out to the largely Muslim Islamic Republic .
Pope Benedict met last year with a delegation of Catholic bishops from Iran and said he wanted to improve relations with the Islamic Republic .
Tauran met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Tuesday .
Vatican delegation members will also visit the city of Qom , a Shi'ite spiritual center in Iran , before wrapping up their trip Wednesday .
Dozens of U.S. Christian missionaries have left their posts in Venezuela 's jungle ahead of a government order to leave the area .
The New Tribes Mission said it had withdrawn all of its missionaries from Venezuelan tribal areas , where the evangelical group had been active for decades .
A spokeswoman for the group , Nita Zelenak , told VOA news Sunday that 35 adults and 19 children have left the tribal areas .
Some returned to the United States and others have moved to other locations in Venezuela .
In November , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez gave the group a February 12 deadline to leave .
He accused the missionaries of having links to the CIA and abusing indigenous groups .
The New Tribes Mission denies the accusations .
The group has filed a legal challenge to the expulsion order .
The main Marxist ally of Sri Lanka 's ruling coalition government has quit in protest over a plan to share the distribution of tsunami aid with the Tamil Tiger rebels .
The People 's Liberation Front , popularly known as the JVP , has 39 seats in the 225-seat parliament in which President Chandrika Kumaratunga has only a five-seat majority .
President Kumaratunga wants to share the distribution of tsunami aid with the Tamil Tigers as an opportunity to forge peace with them .
The donors also have insisted on a joint aid-distribution mechanism .
But the JVP and the country 's influential Buddhist monks have opposed the move , saying such an agreement would help the rebels ' cause for a separate state .
Reports from Colombo say the pullout may not bring the government down because the president has secured support of some of the opposition lawmakers in parliament .
Hundreds of student supporters of the militant group Hamas have clashed with those backing the ruling Fatah party of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
Witnesses say the massive brawl erupted Sunday when several hundred Fatah backers at the West Bank 's Hebron University started shouting their own party 's slogans in the midst of a large Hamas campaign rally for student council elections .
Hospital officials say at least eight people were injured .
Hamas , the largest and most powerful Palestinian militant group , has emerged as a key player in Palestinian politics .
On Saturday , the Islamic group announced it will end a nearly decade-long boycott and take part in Palestinian parliamentary elections in July .
South Africa is sending a representative to next week 's Middle East peace conference in the U.S. city of Annapolis , Maryland near Washington .
In a statement Saturday the South African government says Foreign Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will participate in the summit designed to find a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
The Foreign Affairs Ministry says South Africa hopes to share its experience transitioning from apartheid to democracy as part of the international effort to achieve peace in the Middle East .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas are scheduled to attend the peace summit .
Saudi Arabia which has no diplomatic ties with Israel will also be in attendance .
The U.S. State Department says Washington has invited some 50 nations and entities to the conference to be held Tuesday .
The Zaragoza airport in northern Spain was evacuated Wednesday morning after it received threats made in the name of the Basque separatist group ETA .
Officials say they received word that a rocket launcher had been set up to carry out an attack during a two-hour period at midday ( 0800 to 1000 GMT ) .
ETA staged a rocket attack on the Zaragoza airport back in June , but no one was hurt .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths since the 1960s when it began its armed campaign for an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
China says a fourth person is ill with bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency reports the ministry of health has confirmed that a 10-year-old girl in China 's southern Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region has the potentially deadly H5N1 virus .
Meanwhile , Ukraine has declared a state of emergency to help combat a bird flu outbreak in Crimea .
More than 22,000 birds have been seized from villages in the affected area .
Also Tuesday , President Bush met with the director-general of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) to discuss the global strategy against a possible bird flu pandemic .
Mr. Bush called the strategy a remarkable collaborative effort .
Earlier , Burma said it is on the alert for bird flu and will cooperate with international organizations in tracking outbreaks of the disease .
Russia is promising to follow through on a pledge to forgive $ 2.2 billion in debt owed by African nations .
Russia 's ambassador to the United Nations , Andrey Denisov , told a U.N. ministerial meeting focusing on the fight against poverty Tuesday that Moscow wants to underline its general support to the Group of Eight industrial nations .
The group 's finance ministers decided to cancel more than $ 40 billion in debt owed by 18 mostly African nations at a meeting in London earlier this month .
Under the agreement , the 18 countries would receive immediate relief on debt they owe to the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and other lenders .
Nine other African nations are likely to qualify for debt relief soon .
Pakistan 's chief justice has formally resumed his post , two years after his controversial dismissal threw the country into political turmoil .
The Supreme Court says Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry was reinstated at midnight ( Saturday ) and immediately began work Sunday morning .
The independent-minded judge was fired in 2007 by then-President Pervez Musharraf , after pursuing a case challenging the president 's rule .
Chaudhry 's dismissal sparked widespread protests that helped force Mr. Musharraf to resign last year .
Mr. Musharraf 's successor , Asif Ali Zardari , faced a new wave of protests after he delayed Chaudhry 's reinstatement .
Pakistan 's government relented to activists ' demands last week , however , reappointing Chaudhry in an effort to end a volatile political stand-off with the opposition .
Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani traveled to the Lahore area Sunday to meet opposition leader Nawaz Sharif in a further attempt at political reconciliation .
Former U.S. president Jimmy Carter has left a Cleveland , Ohio hospital , where he had been treated for a stomach ailment .
A statement from the medical center in Cleveland says Mr. Carter left the hospital after midday Thursday .
The statement says he thanked his medical team for the care and treatment he received during his stay .
The 85-year-old former president had been admitted to the hospital Tuesday after developing an upset stomach during a flight to Cleveland .
Doctors had determined he had been suffering from a viral infection and kept him in the hospital for two nights to monitor his health .
Mr. Carter has been traveling across the country to promote his new book , White House Diary .
The hospital says he will resume his schedule with a meeting in Washington .
Mr. Carter served as U.S. president from 1977 to 1981 .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says 15 people have died in ethnic clashes around the western Ivory Coast town of Duekoue .
The agency says at least 6,000 people have fled last week 's violence between between indigenous tribes and migrant farm workers .
The mayor of Duekoue told Reuters news agency that U.N. soldiers are patrolling the town and surrounding villages .
He said shops have reopened and public transportation is resuming .
Ethnic tension is common in the region , but it has been exacerbated by Ivory Coast 's civil war which started in 2002 .
The country remains divided between the rebel-held north , and the government-controlled south .
Iraqi security officials say an explosives-packed motorcycle blew up in Baghdad
Thursday , killing at least four people and wounding nearly 20 others .
Police say the blast occurred in the Shorja market area of central Baghdad .
On Wednesday , the U.S. military said Iraqi and American troops killed at least 30 insurgents and detained 27 suspects during fierce fighting in city 's the Haifa Street region , known as a Sunni Arab stronghold In another operation in Baghdad , the U.S. military says troops detained 10 terrorists after witnesses reported seeing men loading weapons into a car .
They also seized four weapons caches .
And the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in a Baghdad operation Wednesday .
Separately , the U.S. military announced the deaths of two Marines killed Tuesday in combat operations in al-Anbar province , west of the capital .
The International Olympic Committee says a Ukrainian heptathlon silver medalist is under investigation for a positive drug test at the Beijing Olympics .
The IOC said Wednesday it has opened a probe into Lyudmila Blonska , who finished second behind Ukrainian Natalia Dobrynska last Saturday .
The IOC 's disciplinary commission and executive board are expected to rule on the case Thursday .
If found guilty , Blonska would be stripped of her medal and could be subjected to a lifetime ban .
Blonska served a separate doping suspension earlier this decade .
U.S. and European naval officials say pirates have hijacked two European-owned tanker ships off the coast of Somalia .
The officials say a Greek-owned chemical tanker , the MV Nipayia , was seized late Wednesday with 19 crew members on board .
They say pirates seized the Norwegian-owned MV Bow Asir on Thursday .
That ship is said to have a crew of at least 23 .
Both hijackings occurred off Somalia 's eastern coast , in the Indian Ocean .
Somali pirates seized more than 40 ships during 2008 and received millions of dollars in ransom payments in a hijacking spree .
The hijackings have become less frequent since the United States , China , Russia and other nations began conducting anti-piracy patrols in the waters near Somalia .
Experts say the mass exodus of people from the devastated Gulf Coast region is unprecedented in American history .
Federal officials say up to one million people , mostly from New Orleans , have been displaced in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina .
More than 200,000 victims have taken refuge in nearby Texas , while others are scattered in cities and towns from California to New York City .
War , economic disaster , religious and social persecution and natural catastrophes have forced large populations to relocate many times in American history .
Experts say this time , however , the migration of hundreds of thousands from New Orleans and the U.S. Gulf Coast is completely different - as the newly homeless are coming from one of America 's most unique and diverse cities , and it is happening over a much shorter period of time .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in Beijing to begin a two-day state visit likely to focus on China 's energy needs and bilateral investments .
Mr. Putin , at the head of a large delegation of business leaders and top officials , landed at Beijing International Airport Tuesday and was expected to meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao later in the day .
In addition to energy and other industrial issues , the two leaders are expected to discuss disputes over the Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs .
As permanent members of the U.N. Security Council , both Russia and China are playing a key role in the current diplomatic efforts to resolve the dispute over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions .
The two countries also participate in six-nation disarmament talks on North Korea 's nuclear program , along with the United States , the two Koreas and Japan .
Democratic U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy has urged the government to spend more money on education as millions of students return to school for a new academic year .
Senator Kennedy delivered the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday .
He said Democrats want more money for teacher training , small class sizes , early childhood education and college aid .
Mr. Kennedy accused the Bush administration and Republican leaders in Congress of underfunding an education law passed in 2001 called the No Child Left Behind Act .
He said without more money spent on education , America 's national security and competitive standing in the world are at risk .
The senator from Massachusetts is the senior Democrat on the Senate committee that oversees education .
Georgia 's defense minister says his country will reduce its military presence in Iraq to 300 soldiers by next summer .
Davit Kezerashvili told reporters Friday the planned cut is part of a previous agreement with the United States .
Kezerashvili says no reduction is expected before mid-2008 .
Georgia currently has 2,000 soldiers in Iraq .
The number was increased from 850 in July after Georgia 's parliament approved a proposal by President Mikhail Saakashvili .
The Georgian president and the ruling party have been working to build closer ties with the United States and other western nations in a bid to gain NATO membership .
Pakistan has condemned India 's remarks on the escalating violence in Baluchistan province , warning that such statements are unhelpful and will not improve bilateral relations .
India 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Navtej Sarna last week expressed concern over what he called the " spiraling violence " between Pakistani security forces and restive tribesmen in Baluchistan province .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam told reporters in Islamabad that India should mind its own business .
In recent weeks , Pakistani army helicopters and ground troops have overrun suspected training bases in Baluchistan thought to be used by militants for attacks on government installations .
Baluch tribesmen have been launching attacks to press their demands for an increase in royalties for resources extracted in their areas .
Ms. Aslam warned that such Indian criticism could weaken attempts by the neighboring countries to resolve bilateral issues , including the long-standing dispute over Kashmir .
Egypt 's top cleric has angrily condemned those responsible for last week 's terrorist bombings in Sharm el-Sheikh .
Speaking in that Red Sea resort town , the grand imam of the Al-Azhar mosque , Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi , rejected terrorist attacks in the name of Islam .
He said the bombers will be cursed by God .
Egyptian officials say 64 people died in the blasts , but local doctors say the death toll is nearly 90 .
The grand imam called on Egyptians to help find those responsible for the attacks .
Egypt 's President Hosni Mubarak has called for an Arab summit next month in Sharm el-Sheikh to discuss terrorism and other concerns .
Insurgents in Iraq have intensified their campaign of pre-election violence , killing two aides to the country 's highest Shi'ite authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
Sheikh Mahmoud al-Madai'ni , his son and four bodyguards , were gunned down Wednesday as they left evening prayers south of Baghdad in Salman Pak .
Another aide was found dead in the ayatollah 's office in Najaf .
Ayatollah al-Sistani is not a candidate in the January 30 polls , but he supports the United Iraqi Alliance , a mainly Shi'ite coalition that is likely to win a large number of seats in the national assembly .
Meanwhile , gunmen opened fire on a minibus outside a Baghdad hotel Thursday , killing six people and kidnapping a Turkish businessman .
And near the town of Baquba , police say three people were killed and at least 13 others were hurt in a car bombing outside a Shi'ite mosque .
Pro-Taleban militants have captured 24 soldiers from a military checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan .
Police say more than 150 militants attacked the post Monday night near the town of Bannu , in the restive North Waziristan region .
Officials say the militants captured the soldiers after heavy gunfire .
Last month , officials said pro-Taleban militants released at least 25 of nearly 250 Pakistani soldiers held captive near the Afghan border since late August .
Pakistan is struggling to contain a recent upsurge in violence in its northwestern region following the collapse of a peace deal in July between the government and pro-Taleban tribesmen .
Pakistani authorities say gunmen on a motorcycle have killed three Chinese engineers and their Pakistani driver in the troubled southwestern Baluchistan province .
Local police say the drive-by shooting occurred Wednesday in a remote town southeast of the provincial capital , Quetta .
The Associated Press says a tribal militant group , the Baluchistan Liberation Army , claimed responsibility for the attack .
In a separate development , in the North Waziristan tribal region bordering Afghanistan , Pakistani security forces arrested two men late Tuesday on suspicion of links with al-Qaida .
Pakistan 's army has conducted a series of counter-terrorism operations in North and South Waziristan in the past three years , aimed at trapping Arab , Afghan and Central Asian militants with links to the Taliban and al-Qaida .
Bangladesh 's government has brought new corruption charges against detained former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia .
The country 's Anti-Corruption Commission Thursday accused Ms. Zia , her son , Tarique Rahman and five others of embezzling more than $ 300,000 ( 21 million taka ) from a trust meant for orphans .
She and her two sons already are being held on other corruption charges .
They were among 170 politicians and business people arrested last year during an anti-graft sweep by Bangladesh 's military-backed caretaker government .
Former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina also was detained in the crackdown .
She was recently released on parole to receive medical treatment in the U.S.
Ms. Zia 's Bangladesh Nationalist Party has vowed to boycott the country 's parliamentary elections , set for December , unless the former prime minister is released from detention .
Afghan police say a roadside bomb exploded near a military convoy in western Afghanistan Sunday , killing two civilians .
Authorities say the blast took place as the two men were passing a Western military convoy in Herat province .
There were no reports of anyone injured in the convoy .
On Saturday , Afghani Pajhwok news agency said an Italian photojournalist had been kidnapped by the Taleban in southern Afghanistan .
The news agency identified the journalist as Gabriele Torsello and said a call to his mobile phone Saturday had been answered by someone who said the Taleban abducted the foreigner on charges of spying .
Also Saturday , in neighboring Kandahar province , two NATO soldiers from Canada were killed and three others wounded when militants ambushed their unit .
France 's lower house of parliament has approved a new anti-terrorism bill that includes increasing the use of video surveillance .
The National Assembly voted 373 to 27 in favor of the legislation .
The bill now requires approval by the Senate , which begins debate in January .
The draft law extends the detention period without charges for terrorism suspects from four days to six days .
It also provides for an increase of video surveillance in French subways , airports and train stations , and requires Internet cafes to keep more detailed information about their clients .
Critics of the bill say it will erode basic civil liberties .
Tanzania is one of the world 's poorest economies in terms of per capita income , however , Tanzania average 7 % GDP growth per year between 2000 and 2008 on strong gold production and tourism .
The economy depends heavily on agriculture , which accounts for more than 40 % of GDP , provides 85 % of exports , and employs about 80 % of the work force .
The World Bank , the IMF , and bilateral donors have provided funds to rehabilitate Tanzania 's aging economic infrastructure , including rail and port infrastructure that are important trade links for inland countries .
Recent banking reforms have helped increase private-sector growth and investment , and the government has increased spending on agriculture to 7 % of its budget .
Continued donor assistance and solid macroeconomic policies supported a positive growth rate , despite the world recession .
In 2008 , Tanzania received the world 's largest Millennium Challenge Compact grant , worth $ 698 million .
Dar es Salaam used fiscal stimulus and loosened monetary policy to ease the impact of the global recession .
GDP growth in 2009 - 10 was a respectable 6 % per year due to high gold prices and increased production .
The colonial boundaries created by Britain to delimit Uganda grouped together a wide range of ethnic groups with different political systems and cultures .
These differences prevented the establishment of a working political community after independence was achieved in 1962 .
The dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN ( 1971 - 79 ) was responsible for the deaths of some 300,000 opponents ; guerrilla war and human rights abuses under Milton OBOTE ( 1980 - 85 ) claimed at least another 100,000 lives .
The rule of Yoweri MUSEVENI since 1986 has brought relative stability and economic growth to Uganda .
During the 1990s , the government promulgated non-party presidential and legislative elections .
Authorities in Afghanistan say they have arrested four foreigners suspected of plotting terrorist attacks .
Government officials say the four men - one from Iran and three from Pakistan - were picked up after they crossed illegally into Afghanistan 's Nimroz province from neighboring Iran this week .
At least one of the suspects was believed to be headed to Kandahar province in southern Afghanistan .
Officials in Kabul and Kandahar say the four men are suspected terrorists , but gave no details about their targets or methods .
Attacks by militants have increased in Afghanistan in recent months , primarily in southern and eastern regions where U.S.-led coalition forces are hunting remnants of the Taleban and al-Qaida fighters .
Afghan authorities have blamed the increase in suicide attacks and car-bomb explosions on foreign insurgents .
The cholera epidemic ravaging Zimbabwe has commanded the attention of public authorities and international relief organizations , but meanwhile a less-visible tragedy is unfolding among those living with – and dying in large numbers from – HIV / AIDS .
HIV / AIDS advocates say resources have been concentrated on fighting the cholera epidemic , draining funds away from programs supporting those living with HIV / AIDS , who are highly vulnerable to the cholera bacterium which is almost ubiquitous in the country .
Research suggests about 15 % of Zimbabwe 's population is HIV-positive .
Frenk Guni , technical director for HIV-AIDS with Management Systems International in Washington , told reporter Patience Rusere of VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe that someone is dying from HIV / AIDS every three minutes in Zimbabwe .
More reports from VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe ...
The U.S. military is fighting efforts to release more photos and videotapes that document the abuse of detainees at Iraq 's Abu Ghraib prison .
General Richard Myers , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , warns that releasing the images would inflame Arab opinion and put U.S. troops at risk .
He also argues that al-Qaida and other groups would use the photos for propaganda .
General Myers ' statements were contained in recently-unsealed court papers filed in U.S. district court in New York City .
The American Civil Liberties Union has sued the government for the release of 87 photos and four videotapes taken at the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison .
The group says release of the images will lead to a public examination of Army interrogation policies .
Photos from Abu Ghraib released last year showed Iraqi detainees with leashes around their necks and in other humiliating positions .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Iranian President Mohammad Khatami took turns attacking the United States Friday in Caracas during a state visit by the Iranian leader .
In a speech to Venezuela 's National Assembly , Mr. Chavez declared that Iran has every right to develop atomic energy , and promised to oppose any U.S. efforts to stop Iran .
Washington accuses Iran of secretly developing nuclear weapons .
In Mr. Khatami 's speech to the lawmakers , he denounced terrorism while condemning what he called " crimes of liberty , " specifically citing the U.S. Abu Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq and ongoing detentions at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo , Cuba .
On other issues , the presidents of two oil producing countries signed a number of cooperation agreements relating to oil , taxes , commerce and construction .
American skier Bode Miller has captured the Vancouver Olympic gold medal in the men 's super-combined event , which combines one downhill run with one slalom run .
After finishing seventh in the opening downhill run in Whistler , British Columbia Sunday , the 32-year-old Miller skied one of the fastest slalom .
He finished with a two-run combined time of two minutes and 44.92 seconds .
Ivica Kostelic of Croatia took the silver medal , 33/100ths of a second back , while Silvan Zurbriggen of Switzerland took the bronze , another 7/100ths behind .
With the win , Miller now has three medals in Vancouver - the super-combined gold , a silver in the super-G and the downhill bronze .
Afghanistan 's election officials have again postponed the announcement of final results of the September 18 parliamentary elections .
The Joint Electoral Management Body says claims of widespread fraud in southern Afghanistan are delaying the results that were expected Wednesday , but now will be announced " in the next few days . "
Based on provisional results declared last month , the 249-seat Lower House will be dominated by former warlords and Mujahedin fighters .
The country 's first parliament in decades will also have several members of the ousted Taleban regime as well as more than 60 women legislators , who were declared provisional winners .
Meanwhile , a roadside bomb exploded near a U.N. convoy in southern Kandahar province , damaging an armored vehicle but causing no injuries .
Two suspects have been arrested .
U.S.-led coalition forces prevented another attack by discovering a bomb near the eastern city of Jalalabad .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he plans to raise taxes on foreign oil companies in Venezuela .
Mr. Chavez Sunday described the move as a " tax on extraction , " saying it would create one billion dollars in new state revenue .
He made the announcement Sunday during his weekly television and radio program .
The new tax will be 33 percent - up from 16.7 percent .
Mr. Chavez has accused foreign oil companies of exploiting his country 's vast petroleum reserves without paying sufficient taxes , and has taken steps to increase revenue from the industry .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says his government would be worried by any U.S. and NATO attempts to further expand their influence into the former Soviet sphere .
At a speech to the American Council for International Relations in New York Thursday , Mr. Ivanov said Russia sees no sense in further NATO enlargement .
The 26-member organization added seven European countries last year .
He also said Russia is concerned about American military presence in Georgia , a former Soviet republic where a pro-U.S. president came to power last year following a popular uprising .
Mr. Ivanov stressed that Russia is not opposed to U.S. training of Georgian peacekeepers for overseas missions .
But he says Moscow would not like Georgian peacekeepers to get involved in conflicts in the Caucasus .
The best-known U.S. stock market index , the Dow Jones Industrial Average , rose higher than ever before Wednesday , passing the 13,000 mark for the first time .
The Dow rose as high as 13,107 during trading , before easing slightly to 13,090 at the close .
Major companies like Amazon and Boeing reported stronger earnings than investors expected , giving them hope these corporations will continue to prosper even though the U.S. economy is slowing down .
The Dow also gained after Alcoa said it might sell parts of its business , and economic reports showed rising orders for manufactured goods and rising sales for new homes .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a composite measure of what are called " blue-chip " stocks from the biggest U.S. companies in a variety of industries .
Crude oil prices fell after some downbeat economic reports pointed to a deeper recession in the United States , which would push energy demand down .
Traders also expect a U.S. government report to show continued growth of oil inventories in the world 's biggest energy market .
The price of a barrel of oil for future delivery fell more than $ 4 to hit $ 41.67 at the close of trading in New York .
Oil has fallen as low as $ 33 a barrel recently , and hit an all-time high above $ 147 a barrel last July .
Venezuela 's government has promised new measures to combat the country 's inflation rate , which is the highest in the region .
Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas said Wednesday that his country 's inflation rate of 22.5 percent is " unsatisfactory . "
He promised new anti-inflationary measures but did not disclose any details .
Meanwhile , Venezuela has begun using a new currency system in an effort to slow the inflation rate .
The " strong bolivar " entered circulation on Tuesday .
It was created by taking three trailing zeros off the value of the former currency , the bolivar .
Officials say the new currency also will simplify transactions .
But critics say they doubt it will stabilize rising prices .
Pakistani officials say 40 people were killed and at least 40 others wounded in fierce sectarian clashes in a remote northwestern town .
A military-imposed curfew is in place in Parachinar , in the semi-autonomous Kurram region , after gunbattles erupted Friday between Sunni and Shi'ite Muslims .
The cause of the violence has not been independently confirmed .
But residents have said the trouble began when one group held a demonstration denouncing the other sect .
An official in the tribal region , Sahibzada Mohammad Anis , Saturday told reporters that army helicopters are patrolling the area .
Authorities say soldiers have been given shoot-on-sight orders .
The town of Parachinar is located about 250 kilometers southwest of Peshawar , the capital of North West Frontier province .
Thousands of people have been killed in sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shi'ites in Pakistan since the 1980s .
The United States and the European Union have urged Ethiopians to reduce tensions and follow political processes to resolve an election crisis .
A joint U.S. and EU statement Wednesday commended the Ethiopian people for the peaceful May 15 vote , but warned all parties to renounce violence and refrain from inflaming ethnic tensions .
The election outcome remains undecided , and charges of electoral fraud sparked anti-government protests last month in which 36 people were killed .
The statement urged full participation in the official inquiry into the allegations of fraud in 140 constituencies .
Wednesday 's statement also called on all Ethiopian political parties , including the Ethiopian People 's Democratic Front ( EPRDF ) , the Coalition for Unity and Democracy ( CUD ) and the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces ( UEDF ) , to respect the National Election Board and to continue working for democracy .
The Iraqi government has ordered the pan-Arab satellite network Al-Arabiya to close its bureau in Baghdad for one month .
Iraqi officials are quoted as saying the ban is because of what they have described as the network 's uneven reporting and unprofessional conduct in covering events in Iraq .
Dubai-based Al-Arabiya was briefly banned in November 2003 after airing an audiotape from Saddam Hussein .
The U.S.-backed interim Iraqi government banned the Arabic satellite network Al-Jazeera in 2004 for allegedly inciting violence .
Burma is rejecting the latest U.S. report on human trafficking , which blacklisted the country as one of the world 's worst offenders for a seventh consecutive year .
Burma 's state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper quoted a foreign ministry official as saying the annual report lacks objectivity and does not fully reflect Burma 's efforts against human trafficking .
The U.S. State Department 's " Trafficking in Persons Report " listed Burma in tier three , meaning it is one of the world 's worst offenders , along with North Korea and Sudan .
Burma 's foreign ministry , however , said that it had taken action against around 400 traffickers in 2006 .
The United States and the European Union have imposed economic sanctions on Burma to protests human rights abuses and the lack of democratic progress in the military-run country .
Iraqi authorities say car bombs in Baghdad and the northern city of Kirkuk killed 62 people Sunday .
They say the deadliest blast occurred in Baghdad 's Sadr City neighborhood when a bomb killed 34 near a busy market .
A short time later , another blast killed eight more people outside a municipal building .
The bombings came hours after U.S. and Iraqi government forces raided the district and clashed with militiamen loyal to radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
To the north , a car bomb killed 20 people and wounded 50 others near a courthouse in Kirkuk Sunday .
On Saturday , Iraqi political and religious leaders met to discuss Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's national reconciliation plan to end sectarian violence .
After the meeting , Mr. Maliki said insurgents guilty of bloodshed should not be included in his proposed amnesty .
Mr. Maliki will visit Washington Tuesday for talks with President Bush .
The International Olympic Committee says several top athletes are considering a boycott of this year 's Beijing Olympics as a protest against China 's crackdown on activists in Tibet .
However , IOC members and senior government officials in several European countries said Sunday that they oppose any boycott of the games beginning this August .
France 's Foreign Ministry expressed concern Sunday over recent events in Tibet and asked Chinese authorities to recognize the importance of protecting human rights in advance of the Olympics .
Hundreds of pro-Tibet activists in The Hague and Paris clashed with police Sunday outside China 's embassies in those countries .
The protesters managed to pull down the embassies ' Chinese flags and raise Tibetan banners .
Tibetan exiles and their supporters in other European cities and around the world organized another day of protests Sunday .
Some called for a boycott of this year 's Olympics , but Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , says he does not oppose Beijing 's role as host of the summer games .
Chinese Olympic Committee officials said Sunday that the unrest in Tibet will not affect their plans to bring the Olympic torch through Tibet and up to the summit of Mount Everest during May .
During the past week , many world leaders have called on China to exercise restraint in dealing with Tibetan protesters .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has called on Chinese authorities to release detained demonstrators and hold talks with the Dalai Lama .
Formerly an independent kingdom , Madagascar became a French colony in 1896 but regained independence in 1960 .
During 1992 - 93 , free presidential and National Assembly elections were held ending 17 years of single-party rule .
In 1997 , in the second presidential race , Didier RATSIRAKA , the leader during the 1970s and 1980s , was returned to the presidency .
The 2001 presidential election was contested between the followers of Didier RATSIRAKA and Marc RAVALOMANANA , nearly causing secession of half of the country .
In April 2002 , the High Constitutional Court announced RAVALOMANANA the winner .
RAVALOMANANA achieved a second term following a landslide victory in the generally free and fair presidential elections of 2006 .
In early 2009 , protests over increasing restrictions on opposition press and activities resulted in RAVALOMANANA stepping down and the presidency was conferred to the mayor of Antananarivo , Andry RAJOELINA .
Following negotiations in July and August of 2009 , a power-sharing agreement with a 15-month transitional period was established , but has not yet been implemented .
Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the 13th century when it was ceded to Scotland , the isle came under the British crown in 1765 .
Current concerns include reviving the almost extinct Manx Gaelic language .
Isle of Man is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK or of the European Union .
However , the UK Government remains constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation .
India and Pakistan have opened a third crossing at the Line of Control that divides Kashmir to provide aid to victims of last month 's devastating earthquake .
Officials from the two countries opened the river crossing Saturday to allow passage of relief goods in both directions .
Earlier this week India delayed opening the third crossing because it said the Pakistani army had not completed work on a border bridge .
But Pakistani spokesman disputed the claim , saying his side was ready to open .
The two nations agreed last month to open five border crossings in Kashmir to facilitate aid flow and to allow quake survivors to reunite with family members on the other side .
More than 100 people have died in the central Democratic Republic of Congo , in what health officials suspect is an outbreak of hemorrhagic fever .
The chief health official for Kasai Occidental Province , Jean-Constatin Kanow , says a total of 217 people in four villages have come down with the illness .
Kanow says the outbreak appears related to the funerals of two village chiefs in early June .
The U.N.-funded IRIN news service quotes him as saying all the people who assisted with those burials have died .
Medical teams dispatched the region plan to take blood samples to better identify the illness .
In the past , the Democratic Republic of Congo has endured outbreaks of both Marburg and Ebola , two types of hemorrhagic fever caused by viruses that can attack the central nervous system and cause bleeding from the eyes , ears , and other parts of the body .
U.S. crude oil prices have risen to another record high , passing $ 78 a barrel , as violence in the Middle East and Nigeria threatened supplies .
Crude oil for August delivery closed at a record $ 76.70 in New York Thursday .
The price continued to rise in after-hours trading , hitting $ 78.40 .
That is the highest price for oil since the New York Mercantile Exchange began the contract in 1983 .
In early Asian trading Friday crude oil was at $ 77.95 a barrel .
Strong demand for oil leaves little unused oil production capacity anywhere in the world .
The tight balance between supply and demand means any disruption in oil supplies could cause prices to soar .
U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan say they killed 15 militants during an overnight operation in the east , while local officials says those killed were civilians .
In a statement Saturday , coalition forces say their troops were targeting Taliban militants in Laghman province when they came under attack .
It says the troops returned fire , killing 15 militants , including a woman carrying a rocket-propelled grenade .
Local officials dispute the account and say as many as 22 civilians were killed .
Polls are open in all four of the U.S. states holding primary elections today Tuesday as U.S. Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama battle for support for the Democratic Party nomination .
Texas and Ohio are the two key states in Tuesday 's balloting , because they have many more delegates than the small northeastern states of Vermont and Rhode Island .
Delegates choose the party 's nominee for the presidential race .
Clinton lags behind Obama , with 11 straight losses in primaries and caucuses .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has said his wife needs to win both Texas and Ohio to keep her campaign alive .
On the Republican side , Senator John McCain seems on the verge of clinching his party 's nomination .
Senator McCain could secure the Republican Party nomination with victories Tuesday .
He has a commanding lead over former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee .
Iraqi officials say they have a fugitive half-brother and former adviser to ousted president Saddam Hussein in custody .
Authorities have not released details of the arrest of Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hasan .
But there are reports that Syria was involved in the capture .
The Associated Press says Damascus handed over the former intelligence chief early Sunday as a goodwill gesture .
Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hasan was number 36 on a U.S. list of the most wanted people in Iraq .
He had a bounty on his head of one million dollars .
In other developments , a bombing at a police station killed at least five Iraqis Sunday near the northern city of Mosul .
Tunisia has a diverse economy , with important agricultural , mining , tourism , and manufacturing sectors .
Governmental control of economic affairs while still heavy has gradually lessened over the past decade with increasing privatization , simplification of the tax structure , and a prudent approach to debt .
Progressive social policies also have helped raise living conditions in Tunisia relative to the region .
Real growth , which averaged almost 5 % over the past decade , declined to 4.6 % in 2008 and to 3-4 % in 2009 - 10 because of economic contraction and slowing of import demand in Europe - Tunisia 's largest export market .
However , development of non-textile manufacturing , a recovery in agricultural production , and strong growth in the services sector somewhat mitigated the economic effect of slowing exports .
Tunisia will need to reach even higher growth levels to create sufficient employment opportunities for an already large number of unemployed as well as the growing population of university graduates .
The challenges ahead include : privatizing industry , liberalizing the investment code to increase foreign investment , improving government efficiency , reducing the trade deficit , and reducing socioeconomic disparities in the impoverished south and west .
Lebanese forces have unearthed a mass grave in an eastern town that was the headquarters of Syrian intelligence in Lebanon for nearly three decades .
The remains of at least 20 people were exhumed Saturday in the Bekaa Valley town of Anjar .
Officials said the bodies had been buried for years and that the remains - mostly bones - would be sent for DNA testing in an effort to identify them .
Residents in the town discovered the grave and informed Lebanese authorities .
Syria was the main power broker in Lebanon until April , when it withdrew its remaining 15,000 troops under intense international pressure after the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
An ongoing U.N. investigation has implicated top Syrian officials in the murder , but Damascus has denied any role .
Cuba has placed two large billboards with pictures of U.S. soldiers abusing Iraqi prisoners near the U.S. mission in Havana -- in apparent retaliation for a dispute over the mission 's Christmas decorations .
The billboards contain photographs of hooded Iraqi detainees from Baghdad 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison , as well as an image of a swastika and the word " fascists . "
There was no immediate reaction from the United States .
The large signs went up Friday , three days after the Cuban government threatened consequences for Christmas decorations displayed outside the offices of the U.S. special interest section .
A U.S. official said Cuba was upset because the decorations include a neon sign with the number " 75 " on it -- a reference to the 75 political dissidents imprisoned in Cuba last year .
Cuba and the United States do not have diplomatic relations .
Iraqi police guard site where head of Diyala provincial council Hussein Alwan al-Tamimi was killed in Baquoba A series of suicide car bombings and two-bomb rigged motorcycles killed at least 33 people across northern Iraq Thursday .
The worst attack was on a restaurant in the town of Tuz Khurmatu , where bodyguards of Deputy Prime Minster Rowsch Nouri Shaways were eating .
Twelve people were killed .
Mr. Shaways was not present .
Bombers also struck the gates of a state-run oil firm in Kirkuk and a government convoy in Baquba .
Two parked motorcycles rigged with bombs also exploded outside a cafe in Mosul , killing five people .
Meanwhile , Iraq 's Interior Ministry says 700 terror suspects have been arrested and a huge number of weapons seized so far in a massive security sweep in Baghdad that began Sunday .
Operation Lightning is aimed against Iraqi insurgents .
British media report that two British hostages kidnapped in Iraq two years ago are believed to be dead .
Reports say the British Foreign Office told the families of the two last week that it believed the men were dead .
The two were among a group of five Britons who were seized from an Iraqi Finance Ministry building in Baghdad by men disguised as Iraqi police in 2007 .
The bodies of two of the other hostages were handed over to British authorities last month .
The fate of the fifth hostage remains unclear and the Foreign Office says all efforts are being made to secure his release .
A group calling itself the Islamic Shi'ite Resistance in Iraq says it is behind the abductions .
Authorities in Japan say they have detected signs of bird flu at a farm north of Tokyo .
Japan 's Kyodo news agency said Monday officials plan to kill 82,000 chickens at the farm .
The farm is in a quarantined area of Ibaraki prefecture , where media reports say approximately 1.5 million birds have already been culled because of past bird-flu outbreaks .
It was not clear if the bird flu detected in Japan was the H5N1 strain of the virus that has killed more than 60 people in Asia over the past two years .
Meanwhile , Vietnam is calling for more international assistance to help it fight avian influenza .
A Vietnamese official asked for help at a meeting of health and disaster officials from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Brisbane , Australia .
The APEC officials are discussing contingency plans in case H5N1 strain of the bird-flu virus begins spreading between humans .
European Union foreign ministers have renewed sanctions against Burma 's military rulers for another year .
Under the sanctions , members of the ruling military junta and their families are barred from entering the EU .
The measures also ban EU companies and organizations from doing business in Burma .
The 25-member bloc initially imposed the sanctions in 1996 after Rangoon failed to meet EU demands for democratic reforms .
The EU also wants pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi to be released from house arrest .
Burma 's military rulers are coming under increasing pressure to implement democratic reforms .
There are calls to deny Burma its scheduled chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) in 2006 .
President Bush is expected to nominate one of his closest friends , Karen Hughes , to lead a State Department effort to improve the reputation of the United States among Muslims in the Arab world .
The 48-year-old Ms. Hughes is expected to be nominated next week as Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs , a position that requires Senate confirmation .
Ms. Hughes will join Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in leading the president 's push for democracy in the Middle East .
Ms. Hughes has been one of President Bush 's closest advisors since he became the governor of Texas 10 years ago .
The position of Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy has been vacant since last June when Margaret Tutwiler resigned after only six months on the job .
Police in southwest Pakistan say gunmen have shot and killed the government spokesman in southwestern Balochistan province .
Local officers say that Raziq Bugti died at the scene after unidentified assailants fired a barrage of shots into his vehicle as it traveled through the provincial capital , Quetta .
Bugti served as the spokesman for the provincial government and advisor to the chief minister .
In May , Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf said that government forces have wiped out nearly all separatist camps in the gas-rich province .
Nationalist rebels have been fighting for decades for a larger share of the profits from the resources of Balochistan , Pakistan 's biggest province .
Hundreds of people have been killed in separatist attacks on gas , transport and other energy facilities .
A brief gunbattle between rival Fatah factions erupted outside the Gaza headquarters of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas Wednesday , as the ruling party prepared to register its list of candidates for January 's parlimentary elections .
Witnesses say at least three people were wounded .
The clash occurred after Fatah gunmen stormed the building demanding that the party respect the results of recent primary elections .
Mr. Abbas has decided to appoint candidates after canceling the results of the primaries in Gaza and some other areas where balloting was marred by violence and fraud .
Some hard-liners fear they will not be properly represented in the Fatah list .
On Tuesday , a flare-up of election-related violence in Gaza forced Palestinian election officials to close their offices in the there and in the West Bank .
The offices are to open later today .
Mr. Abbas has been struggling to contain internal unrest since Israel pulled out of Gaza in September .
Officials in northwest Pakistan say at least 12 people were killed Sunday when a minibus ran off a mountainous road and plunged into a ravine .
At least eight others were injured in the crash , which occurred near the town of Malakand , northwest of Islamabad .
Police say the vehicle was headed to the town of Chitral from the provincial capital , Peshawar , when the driver lost control of the vehicle .
It is unclear how many people were traveling on the bus at the time of the accident .
Fatal road accidents are common in Pakistan , due mainly to poorly maintained roads and disregard for traffic rules .
A BOY was stung by a Nettle .
He ran home and told his Mother , saying , " Although it hurts me very much , I only touched it gently . "
" That was just why it stung you , " said his Mother .
" The next time you touch a Nettle , grasp it boldly , and it will be soft as silk to your hand , and not in the least hurt you . "
Whatever you do , do with all your might .
A British judge has dropped charges against seven soldiers accused of beating an Iraqi teenager to death in 2003 .
The judge ruled Thursday there was not enough evidence against the soldiers .
They had faced a court-martial in connection with the death of 18-year-old Nadhem Abdullah during a skirmish in southern Iraq .
President Bush says sanctions are a " real possibility " against Iran for its controversial nuclear program .
Interviewed Friday on the CBS television network , Mr. Bush said a free world can not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon .
Mr. Bush said he is open to all possible options for dealing with Iran , including military intervention .
But he said that would be the last option .
In Tehran , the chief of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards , General Yahya Rahim Safavi , said Saturday his country would use ballistic missiles to defend itself if attacked .
On Friday , the U.S. Senate voted unanimously to condemn Iran 's nuclear program , and to support referring Tehran to the United Nations Security Council for allegedly violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
The International Atomic Energy Agency meets February 2 in Vienna to discuss the Iran nuclear standoff .
Europe 's debt crisis got worse Tuesday as a rating agency slashed the credit ratings for the Greek and Portuguese governments .
Standard and Poor 's cut Greek long-term government bonds three levels to speculative or " junk " status because of the " political , economic and budgetary challenges " facing Athens .
The same agency downgraded Portugal 's sovereign debt by two notches .
S & P said it has growing concerns about the ability of the Greek and Portuguese governments to repay debts .
The move followed weeks of talks among European nations and the International Monetary Fund about an aid package worth as much as $ 60 billion for Greece .
The lower rating means lenders will demand higher interest rates , raising borrowing costs at a time when Greece and Portugal are already struggling with financial issues .
The downgrades prompted Greek and Portuguese stocks to fall sharply in Tuesday 's trading .
Thousands of prisoners in Kenya reportedly volunteered to skip lunch on New Year 's day so that the food could be sent to those suffering from famine .
They skipped the meal after President Mwai Kibaki declared Kenya 's famine a national disaster and asked for more than $ 150 million in relief aid .
Inadequate rainfall during Kenya 's rainy season has caused crop failure and the depletion of livestock herds .
President Kibaki said in his New Year 's address that nearly one in 10 Kenyans will need famine relief for the next six months .
At least 20 people and thousands of livestock have died as a result of the drought and famine .
Yemeni officials say al-Qaida militants ambushed a military convoy on Friday , killing 12 soldiers .
Officials say the militants fired machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades at the convoy as it was traveling in southern Abyan province .
Authorities say the convoy was carrying supplies , including water , to military bases in the area .
Yemen 's weak central government is struggling with a growing threat from al-Qaida , which has stepped up attacks in the impoverished country .
Meanwhile , the French News Agency ( AFP ) says secessionists militants in Yemen have kidnapped an intelligence officer and three other people .
The news agency quotes southern secessionist activists as saying the abductions were in retaliation for the government 's hunt for a member of their group .
The Supreme Court of Pakistan has given the country 's election commission 30 days to register all eligible voters left out of draft electoral lists .
The petition was filed by former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her opposition Pakistan People 's Party .
It contends that more than 20 million eligible voters had not been enrolled .
At a hearing Friday , the election commission requested 140 days to prepare the revised lists .
The two-member bench rejected the request , saying the time period was too long .
The court instead granted the commission 30 days to make the necessary changes .
The decision comes a day after Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf decided against declaring a state of emergency that could have delayed elections for a year .
Venezuela says a bomb attack has killed Deputy Attorney General Danilo Anderson .
Officials told VOA Friday the charred body has been positively identified as that of Mr. Anderson , who was killed around midnight Thursday as he drove through a suburb of Caracas .
Mr. Anderson had been in charge of prosecuting several hundred politicians , businessmen and former military officers involved in a failed April 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
Officials say President Chavez has canceled his trip to Costa Rica Friday to attend the Ibero-American summit .
They say he has also canceled a two-week tour of Spain , Iran , Libya and Russia that was to begin this weekend .
Military forces of two Burmese ethnic groups engaged in intense fighting along the border with Thailand earlier this week .
Sources say the fighting broke out Tuesday between forces aligned with the Wa and Shan groups near Thailand 's northern Mae Hong Son province .
The battle began after talks to resolve several issues broke down , including a dispute over water use .
There is also speculation that illegal drugs also played a part in the fighting .
Thailand has increased security along the Burmese border to keep the violence from spilling over into its territories .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 337-9 at stumps on the first day of its first test against India in Melbourne .
Matthew Hayden scored his 28th test century in the match , making 124 before being caught out by Sourav Ganguly .
The century was Hayden 's 19th in Australia , surpassing countrymen Donald Bradman and Ricky Ponting , who have 18 each .
But India 's bowlers put a damper on Australia 's lineup with Anil Kumble 5-84 .
Zaheer Khan was 3-93 for India .
The test is being played on the Melbourne Cricket Ground in front of more than 65,000 fans .
Police say that 110 persons were ejected from the grounds Wednesday , most for throwing objects in the air .
Twelve people were arrested .
Israel has agreed to free 170 Palestinian prisoners .
The release is part of a promise Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon made to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to secure the release this month of an Israeli jailed by Egypt on espionage charges .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called Sunday 's decision a goodwill gesture toward the Egyptian leader .
The Palestinians are expected to be freed in the next week .
The prisoners ' identities were not immediately known , but Israel has said it would not release those it said had " blood on their hands . "
Palestinian officials have long demanded the release of thousands of prisoners held by Israel .
They have also criticized previous prisoner releases as inadequate .
The man who has been guiding the U.S. economy for the past 18 years , Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , is set to retire at the end of January .
The head of the U.S. central bank is highly regarded by economists , markets and political leaders .
President Bush has given no indication who he is considering to replace Mr. Greenspan or when his decision will be announced .
News reports speculate that the chairman of Mr. Bush 's Council of Economic Advisors , Ben Bernanke , is the leading candidate .
He is a monetary economist and a former member of the key Fed committee that sets interest rates .
Other candidates include academic economists with policy experience like Glenn Hubbard and Martin Feldstein .
A delegation of U.S. lawmakers and businessmen is expected to arrive in Cuba Wednesday for talks aimed at selling more agricultural products to the communist nation .
Democratic Senator Max Baucus of Montana , state lawmakers and agricultural producers will meet in Havana with Cuban officials for several days of talks .
They hope to sign deals aimed at selling $ 100 million in food and agricultural products to Havana .
Under an exemption to the U.S. sanctions against Cuba , American agricultural goods can be sold to the island on a cash-only basis .
Since 2001 , Havana has purchased more than $ 700 million in food products .
Meanwhile , Cuba is pressing ahead with its largest military exercise in 20 years .
Officials say military forces , reservists and millions of civilians are taking part in the six-day exercise , called Bastion 2004 .
Kuwait authorities say a policeman , a suspected militant and a Bahraini man have been killed in a shootout near Kuwait City .
The Interior Ministry said four security officers and a second gunman were wounded in the firefight , which erupted when police stormed a suspected militant hideout .
At least one other suspect was taken into custody .
The police raid came after U.S. and Kuwaiti authorities issued statements warning of the likelihood of more attacks against Western targets in the emirate .
It was the third such clash in Kuwait this month .
Two security officers and two gunmen were killed in the earlier violence .
Al Jazeera , the Arabic-language television news network , says a telephone caller threatened to blow up the building housing its Beirut bureau because of the network 's coverage of Saturday 's car bomb explosion in Beirut .
Other news organizations also occupy office space in the same building .
Al Jazeera says all news agencies in the building continued normal operations .
Al Jazeera 's coverage of the bombing contained an interview with Lebanese opposition leader Walid Jumblatt .
Mr. Jumblatt alleged that three bombings in Beirut last week were the work of Syrian-backed Lebanese security agents .
According to Al Jazeera 's website , Mr. Jumblatt said the agents are trying to defend Lebanon 's pro-Syria leadership .
Lebanon 's opposition has also accused Syria of involvement in the assassination of former prime minister Rafik al-Hariri .
Integra-A Hotel & Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering to raise about $ 9 million was declared effective and the company will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week .
Under the offer , shareholders will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned .
Each right entitles the shareholder to buy $ 100 face amount of 13.5 % bonds due 1993 and warrants to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share .
The rights , which expire Nov. 21 , can be exercised for $ 100 each .
Integra , which owns and operates hotels , said that Hallwood Group Inc. has agreed to exercise any rights that are n't exercised by other shareholders .
Hallwood , a Cleveland merchant bank , owns about 11 % of Integra .
The White House is hailing an upcoming Israeli-Palestinian summit in Egypt , calling it an encouraging step that shows both sides want to seize the opportunity for peace .
The U.S. comments Wednesday followed announcements that Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will meet new Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas and Jordan 's King Abdullah Tuesday in Sharm al-Sheikh .
The summit coincides with a visit to the region by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , who is to meet separately with Mr. Sharon and Mr. Abbas the day before the February 8 summit .
In Cairo Wednesday , Egypt held talks with Palestinian militant leaders , as part of a push to strengthen support for the de~facto Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire in effect for most of the past two weeks .
Sources said Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and Islamic Jihad leader Ramadan Shallah both met with Egyptian negotiators .
President Bush is on his way to Mar Del Plata , Argentina , to attend the Summit of the Americas , which opens Friday .
Mr. Bush and 31 other democratically elected leaders will discuss ways to boost employment , fight poverty and strengthen democracy throughout the western hemisphere .
Two other democratic nations : Panama and Honduras , are sending delegations , but not their head of state .
At the summit , Mr. Bush is expected to push for resumed negotiations on a free trade zone that would encompass North , Central and South America .
Mexico has voiced support for the idea , but critics such as Venezuela and Cuba say it will do nothing for the poor .
Mr. Bush is also expected to meet privately with Argentina 's president , Nestor Kirchner .
After the summit , the U.S. leader will visit Brazil and Panama before returning to Washington Monday .
The United States is giving $ 750 million to Pakistan to help develop its remote tribal region .
The U.S. Agency for International Development says the money - to be allocated over five years - will fund projects in Pakistan 's Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATAs ) , which border Afghanistan .
The agency says the projects include efforts to strengthen livelihoods , expand economic opportunities and improve education and healthcare .
A $ 43 million contract has been awarded by the agency to Development Alternatives , Incorporated .
The company will help the Pakistani government and non-governmental organizations to plan , implement and monitor a wide range of development programs .
The Federally Administered Tribal Areas are governed by the Pakistani central government , but Pashtun tribal elders run the day to day affairs of the region .
China says it is " sincere " about establishing diplomatic relations with the Vatican , but has repeated a long-standing requirement that the Holy See acknowledge Taiwan as part of China .
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman , Kong Quan , Tuesday expressed hope that under the new pope , the Vatican will create favorable conditions for establishing relations .
But he said the Vatican must recognize Taiwan as an " inseparable part of China . "
Pope Benedict last week invited countries without diplomatic relations with the Vatican to establish ties soon .
He did not name the countries , but China , Saudi Arabia and Vietnam are among the nations that do not have diplomatic ties with the Vatican .
China broke relations with the Vatican after the communists took power more than 50 years ago .
The Vatican , meanwhile , has maintained full diplomatic relations with Taiwan .
Indonesian authorities say a masked man featured on a video threatening attacks against the United States , Britain and Australia could be Malaysian fugitive Noordin Mohamad Top .
The video was shown to the public Wednesday .
It was among several found last week during raids that resulted in the killing of Azahari bin Husin , who police believe was the terrorist group Jemaah Islamiyah 's master bombmaker .
The tapes were discovered at a house that police say Noordin Mohamad Top rented in central Java .
Police have been hunting him and Azahari since the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people .
Authorities also blame the two men for other attacks , including a car bomb blast outside the Australian embassy in Jakarta last year that killed 10 people .
A massive winter storm is barreling across the central United States , causing mayhem on the roads and threatening to ruin many Americans ' Christmas holiday plans .
The storm stretches as far north as Minnesota , along the Canadian border , to Texas in the south .
Freezing rain , snow and heavy winds are making driving conditions extremely dangerous in some states .
The National Weather Service has issued a blizzard warning to remain in effect for many areas until Saturday , predicting up to 30 centimeters of snow in many northern locales .
The warning says " life-threatening " weather conditions are expected and strongly discourages travel .
Americans on the east coast are just recovering from a major storm last week that dropped as much as 60 centimeters of snow in some areas , and caused widespread power outages .
South Korea and China have canceled meetings with top Japanese officials to protest Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visit to a controversial war shrine .
South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon said Wednesday he had called off a trip to Japan , saying the visit would not be " appropriate . "
Officials in Seoul also say President Roh Moo-hyun may cancel a summit with Mr. Koizumi , expected to take place later this year .
Tuesday , China canceled a trip to Beijing by Japan 's foreign minister , saying the visit was not timely given the current situation .
The Yasukuni shrine honors 2.5 million Japanese war dead , including convicted war criminals .
Critics say Yasukuni represents Japan 's past military aggression , but Mr. Koizumi says his visits are to pray for peace .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has renewed Tokyo 's call for a permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council .
Mr. Koizumi , fresh from a landslide election win , addressed world leaders at the United Nations summit in New York on Thursday .
He said Security Council reform is a " just cause " for the international community .
He stressed Japan 's record of pacifism since the end of World War II .
A proposal by the so-called Group of Four nations - Brazil , India , Germany and Japan - calls for increasing the Security Council to 25 with six new permanent members .
But the proposal is opposed by China and the United States and has failed to gain support among other council members .
Turkish troops have killed three suspected Kurdish rebels during a military offensive in southeastern Turkey .
Monday 's fighting in Tunceli province occurred as more than 5,000 Turkish troops swept through the mountainous region searching for members of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , known as the PKK .
Elsewhere in the region , Turkey says rebels kidnapped a policeman after stopping his car at a roadblock in an area close to the borders of Iraq and Syria .
Officials say troops are looking for the officer .
The violence comes days after the Kurdish rebels ended a 60-day unilateral ceasefire with Turkey .
The rebels accuse the Ankara government of ignoring the truce and continuing military operations against rebel fighters .
Police in Pakistan say they have arrested six Islamic militants who belong to a group accused of attacks on the country 's Shi'ite minority .
Police say the militants belong to the banned Lashkar-e-Jhangvi group , which has alleged links to al-Qaida .
They made the arrests during a raid on the group 's base in Multan , in central Pakistan .
Officials say the group is responsible for suicide bombings on Shi'ite religious sites and may have been planning new attacks .
Police have arrested several other members of the group recently .
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same beautiful plumage .
Supposing that the Swan 's splendid white color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam , the Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his living , and took up residence in the lakes and pools .
But cleansing his feathers as often as he would , he could not change their color , while through want of food he perished .
Change of habit can not alter Nature .
U.S. troops and Iraqi security forces have detained 49 suspected insurgents north of Baghdad , as operations continue to secure the country ahead of January 's election .
The U.S. military says the pre-dawn raid Friday was in the town of Duluiyah , in the insurgent-plagued Sunni Triangle north and west of Baghdad .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , firefighters extinguished a blaze at the city 's main oil refinery , which was attacked by saboteurs late Thursday .
Also Friday , near Fallujah , the body of an Iraqi National Guardsman was found with a note warning others against working with U.S.-led forces .
Iraq 's security forces have been the main target of insurgent violence .
And South Korea 's parliament overwhelmingly approved keeping its 3,600 troops in northern Iraq for another year .
Japan 's foreign minister is in Afghanistan on an unannounced visit to meet with President Hamid Karzai and Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta .
Masahiko Komuri arrived in Kabul Sunday after a visit to Pakistan .
He was expected to discuss security issues and Afghan reconstruction with Mr. Karzai and with Spanta .
The French news agency reports that Komura asked his Afghan counterpart to work on improving relations with Pakistan .
The two nations have been struggling with armed militants sheltering along their mutual border .
Japan said Komuri 's visit was not announced ahead of time because of safety concerns .
President Karzai was the target of a bomb attack on April 27 .
In Pakistan Saturday , Komuri met with President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani , as well as Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi .
Talks there centered on terrorism and cooperation on infrastructure projects .
A leading U.S. newspaper reports that the Central Intelligence Agency has set up secret joint anti-terrorist centers in more than 20 nations .
The Washington Post Friday says the centers may act on tips provided by the CIA , but local agents are used to capture suspected terrorists .
The newspaper based its report on interviews with current and former U.S. and foreign officials who declined to be named .
The Post says the secret program is legal and received a huge boost after the September 2001 terrorist attacks .
It says increased funding has allowed the CIA to entice a wide variety of countries to work with it , including Indonesia , Uzbekistan and France .
The newspaper reports the centers are separate from the secret CIA prisons the Post says exist in several countries .
The CIA had no immediate comment on the report .
The greatest financier in the Bible was the Pharaoh 's daughter .
One day she went down to the Bank of the Nile and drew out a little prophet .
Croatia 's Janica Kostelic has won her first ever women 's World Cup giant slalom title in Spindleruv Mlyn , the Czech Republic .
Kostelic finished with a combined time of two minutes , 21.3 seconds .
Kathrin Zettel of Austria was second , 0.08 of one second back .
Another Austrian , Marlies Schild , was third ( 2:21.40 ) .
Kostelic , the reigning Olympic giant slalom champion , had never won the event on the World Cup circuit before .
Kostelic has won previously in World Cup slalom and combined events and claimed the world championships in the downhill , the slalom and the combined .
A top United Nations envoy has held what he describes as " encouraging " talks with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad about a U.N. resolution calling for all Syrian troops to leave Lebanon .
After meeting the Syrian leader Thursday in Damascus , envoy Terje Roed-Larsen said he delivered a message from U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , and that he is hopeful about implementing the U.N. measure .
No schedule for further talks has been announced .
Western analysts say Syria has at least 14,000 troops in neighboring Lebanon .
Damascus has been sharply critical of a U.N. resolution passed last September , which calls for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon .
Syria has criticized the resolution as an infringement on a bilateral agreement with the Beirut government .
Pope Benedict has met with the parents of the four-year-old British girl who disappeared from a tourist resort in Portugal in early May .
The pope Wednesday spoke to Gerry and Kate McCann following his weekly audience in St. Peter 's Square .
The pontiff blessed a photograph of their daughter , Madeleine , who disappeared when the parents left her and two siblings in a resort hotel while they went to dinner .
Kate McCann said the pope told her he would continue to pray for Madeleine 's safe return .
The couple are devout Catholics , but Gerry McCann said he had conflicting emotions about meeting the pope because of the circumstances .
The McCann 's are also planning to travel to Spain and Germany in their continued campaign to publicize their daughter 's disappearance .
A public outcry in Britain and Portugal at the apparent abduction of young Madeleine has prompted politicians and celebrities to offer their support .
The wind blew so much dust around the field today , we could n't even see who was beating us .
An Israeli security official says a top Hamas commander captured last week could be a " bargaining chip " to win the release of an Israeli soldier held for over a year .
Public Security Minister Avi Dichter told Israeli Army Radio Monday that Hamas commander Mhawesh al-Qadi might be exchanged for Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit .
Israeli commandos dressed as Palestinian security forces abducted the Hamas commander in Gaza Strip in a raid on Friday .
Shalit was captured by militant groups in Gaza in June 2006 .
Hamas , which seized control of Gaza three months ago , has demanded the release of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the Israeli soldier .
Helium was up .
Feathers were down .
Paper was stationary .
Knives were up sharply .
Pencils lost a few points .
Hiking equipment was trailing .
Elevators rose , while escalators continued a slow decline .
Light switches were off .
Mining equipment hit rock bottom .
Diapers remained unchanged .
Shipping lines stayed at an even keel .
Balloon prices were inflated .
And batteries exploded in an attempt to recharge the market .
Burma has released thousands of prisoners to mark the 57th anniversary of the country 's independence from Britain .
A government-run newspaper , New Light of Myanmar , says 5,588 prisoners have been freed on humanitarian grounds to coincide with the holiday .
Monday 's gesture differs from three previous mass releases , which were conducted because of what the junta described as irregularities in arrests by the now dismantled National Intelligence bureau .
The bureau 's former chief , former prime minister Khin Nyunt , has been placed under house arrest on accusations of corruption .
The government has released nearly 20,000 prisoners since early November .
Although about 50 dissidents were freed in prior releases , there was no indication that any political prisoners were let go this time .
Chinese President Hu Jintao is calling for closer economic and cultural relations with Taiwan to maintain peace in the region , and to curb what he calls the island 's " secessionist activities . "
China 's official Xinhua news agency says Mr. Hu made the comments Saturday in Beijing at a forum on China and Taiwan business ties .
Xinhua says that during the forum , the Chinese leader met with the honorary chairman of Taiwan 's main opposition party , Lien Chan .
About 500 participants are attending the two-day event .
They are expected to discuss issues including direct flights from Taiwan to the mainland .
Taiwan and China split in 1949 following a civil war .
But Beijing still considers the island as part of its territory and has threatened to use force if necessary to reunite the two sides .
Three people have been rescued after a tunnel allegedly used by Palestinian weapons smugglers collapsed .
Israel says a joint Israeli army and Palestinian operation succeeded in reaching the men , several hours after the tunnel along the border between the Gaza Strip and Egypt fell in .
The incident happened in the same area where Israeli soldiers shot and killed three Egyptian police officers Thursday .
The Israeli army says a tank crew mistook the Egyptians for Palestinian militants and opened fire .
Egypt has condemned the killings .
The Israeli army has expressed its regret .
Israeli officials also apologized and opened an investigation .
A prominent U.S. Republican lawmaker is criticizing CNN for airing a video from Iraqi insurgents showing a U.S. soldier in Iraq getting shot by a sniper .
Representative Duncan Hunter of California , who chairs the House Armed Services Committee , has sent a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld saying the U.S.-based network served as " the publicist for an enemy propaganda film . "
CNN first aired the video Wednesday .
A CNN producer says the network broadcast the video " to present the unvarnished truth " about the situation in Iraq .
But in his letter to Rumsfeld , Hunter denounces the film as " nothing short of a terrorist snuff film . "
He is demanding that any CNN reporters embedded with U.S. forces in Iraq be expelled .
A leading human rights group is criticizing what it calls the refusal by the United States and other western countries to intervene in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
In its annual report , Human Rights Watch says western countries are wrong to leave peacekeeping duties in Darfur to the African Union , which the group calls a new institution with no peacekeeping experience .
Last year , the African Union began sending peacekeepers to Darfur , where two years of fighting between rebels and government-backed militias have claimed an estimated 70,000 lives .
On another issue , the HRW report says the abuse of prisoners by U.S. soldiers at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq weakened the worldwide system for protecting human rights .
The report also condemns attacks on the rights of sexual minorities around the world .
Vatican officials say Pope John Paul II is getting nutrition through a nasal tube to boost his calorie intake and help what they call his " slow and progressive " recovery from throat surgery .
A Vatican spokesman said the pontiff spends many hours in an armchair , celebrates Mass and works in contact with his aides in directly following church activities .
He issued the statement shortly after the 84-year-old pontiff appeared at his window overlooking Saint Peter 's Square Wednesday , to bless the faithful .
The crowd greeted the pope with cheers and applause when he raised his hand to bless them .
But he was unable to speak when an aide put a microphone in front of him .
The Vatican statement was the first official medical report on the pope since March 10 , three days before he was discharged from a hospital following a tracheotomy .
The United Nations says in the past year more than one million people contracted HIV infections in South Asia , and the disease is spreading largely due to drug use and unsafe sex .
In its annual report on the global AIDS epidemic , the world body says the spread of HIV is stabilizing in some of India 's states , but overall it is still rising .
India already has an estimated 5.1 million HIV-positive people .
According to the report , some 42 percent of female sex workers in India say they are able to guess if their clients are HIV positive because of their physical appearance .
But the report says ignorance about the disease is serious elsewhere in South Asia .
Citing Pakistan as an example , the report says one in every five female sex workers in the largest city of Karachi can not recognize a condom , and one-third never heard of AIDS .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger separatists are being praised by international aid workers for their efficient handling of the tsunami aftermath in the northern region controlled by the rebels .
The Washington Post reports from northern Sri Lanka that the Tigers should get most of the credit for quickly restoring order , at least in the town of Mullaittivu , which lost 3,000 of its 5,300 residents to the tsunami .
The report says by Monday afternoon , just eight days after the devastating tsunami hit Sri Lanka , most of the corpses had been burned and the ground sprayed with disinfectant .
It says Mullaittivu 's streets had been cleared and utility poles were being re-erected .
The newspaper 's correspondent found that some 1500 displaced residents had been sheltered in a college building - complete with adequate food , clothes and medicines .
The head of the World Health Organization says the world 's capacity for making enough swine flu vaccine for nearly seven billion people is " woefully inadequate . "
Margaret Chan said at a Geneva conference Tuesday that almost everyone on the planet is susceptible to the H1N1 swine flu virus .
But she said most of the limited supply of the vaccine will go to wealthy countries , calling it an example of life-saving intervention biased towards affluence .
Chan called for more innovation in developing new medicines to ensure everyone gets the vaccine .
WHO officials have said they believe the first mass vaccines will be available by September and that health care providers should get inoculated first .
The latest WHO report confirms nearly 95,000 swine flu cases worldwide with 429 deaths .
Lebanese soldiers have seized several buildings in a Palestinian refugee camp where they have been battling Islamic militants for two months .
The Lebanese military says two soldiers were killed in Sunday 's fighting in the Nahr el-Bared camp near Tripoli .
Witnesses say Lebanese flags were seen flying over buildings in the camp .
The military also bombarded militants ' positions with artillery shells for a second day , as the militants fired rockets that hit fields outside the camp .
More than 170 people , including at least 97 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20th .
Nearly all of the Palestinian refugees living in the camp have fled .
Last month , Lebanese officials claimed victory in the fighting , but daily firefights have continued since then .
A group of Palestinian gunmen have briefly seized Bethelehem city hall in the West Bank , apparently demanding financial assistance from the Palestinian Authority .
About 20 gunmen appeared on the roof of the city hall Tuesday , ordered all workers out and threatened to open fire .
Palestinian police sealed off the streets leading to the building on Manger Square , near the Church of the Nativity .
Officials say the gunmen were linked to the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades militant faction of the ruling Fatah movement of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
They were demanding money for about 300 members .
The gunmen left the building after about an hour , following talks with the governor of Bethlehem .
It was not immediately clear how the standoff was resolved .
The incident is another sign of growing turmoil within the Palestinian territories ahead of a January parliamentary election .
Egyptian security forces have arrested at least 10 more members of the country 's largest opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood .
Thursday 's arrests come after 17 Brotherhood members were detained earlier this week .
The Egyptian government is intensifying its crackdown on the banned Islamist political group .
The Brotherhood says the government campaign is a direct reaction to the group 's rejection of constitutional amendments proposed by President Hosni Mubarak .
Officials of the Brotherhood say the amendments are aimed at giving the ruling party more power and barring Muslim Brothers from politics .
The Brotherhood won a fifth of the seats in Egypt 's parliament by running members as independents in the 2005 elections , making it the largest opposition group .
The constitutional amendments proposed by Mr. Mubarak would reduce the role of judges in monitoring elections and ban religious groups from forming political parties .
The Brotherhood advocates an Islamic state , achieved through peaceful means .
Federal officials in the U.S. state of Arizona have indicted 13 Bosnian Serbs on charges of lying on their visa applications about their prior military service .
Officials said seven others were being held on similar charges .
The indicted ethnic Serbs from Bosnia-Herzegovina are charged with concealing their prior service in Bosnian Serb forces .
However , some families of the accused have said they did not serve in the military ; others said they were conscripted against their will .
Last year , four other Bosnian Serbs in Arizona were arrested and charged with lying on immigration paperwork .
All immigrants applying for legal residency in the United States must disclose prior military service .
Widespread atrocities occurred during the conflict of the 1990s in Bosnia-Herzegovina , including the slaughter of thousands of civilians by Serb forces .
Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says roadside bomb blasts in southern Helmand province have killed six civilians .
The Interior Ministry said the deaths occurred Saturday in two places after the victims drove over the devices .
Meanwhile , a joint NATO-Afghan security force has killed several Taliban fighters in an operation in the northeast .
NATO says one of the insurgents killed Saturday near Alasay Valley in Kapisa province , outside Kabul , is a suspected Taliban commander .
He is believed to be responsible for violent attacks against Afghan government officials , as well as the joint forces .
Officials say the insurgents are also suspected of imposing strict curfews on the villages in the valley and conducting illegal patrols to enforce Taliban control on local civilians .
Multiple weapons , including a rocket-propelled grenade , were discovered during the operation .
In southern Afghanistan , the British Defense Ministry said Saturday one of its soldiers was killed by a suicide blast .
French authorities responded to several new arson attacks late Friday as rioting continued for the ninth straight night in the suburbs of Paris .
Dozens of vehicles and buildings were set on fire in suburbs north of the city as gangs of young rioters , mostly of North African origin , harassed police and firefighters .
Similar incidents were reported elsewhere in France for the second night .
The latest outbreak comes despite the presence of more than one thousand police officers in the Paris suburbs .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin met with youths from those areas earlier Friday to discuss the crisis .
Many of the rioters say the French government has a racial bias and treats them as second class citizens .
The violence started last week when two North African teenagers hid from police at a power station and were accidentally electrocuted .
The U.S. military says it has captured a number of key terrorist leaders in a series of operations aimed at weakening al-Qaida in Iraq .
The military says its forces spread out across central and northern Iraq Thursday , detaining 25 suspected terrorists .
Officials say one of the suspects is an alleged leader of an al-Qaida cell in Baghdad who was helping to bring foreign terrorists into Iraq .
Forces also arrested a man thought to be senior al-Qaida leader in Mosul .
In violence Wednesday , a suicide car bomber attacked an Iraqi army patrol in the northern city of Mosul , killing three people and wounding 14 others .
In Baghdad , the military said a roadside bomb wounded three Iraqi civilians .
The military also said Iraqi soldiers recovered Iranian-made rockets and other weapons in Baghdad 's Sadr City district on Monday .
It said some of the Iranian munitions had a manufacture date of early 2008 .
The price of crude oil soared Tuesday , hitting a new record high above $ 119 a barrel in New York trading .
The price of crude oil for future delivery went to $ 119.48 cents a barrel .
Traders say a tight balance between demand and supply means oil prices jump when supplies seem threatened or demand rises .
Currently supply concerns are growing out of violence in Nigeria , reports that Russia will produce less oil this year , and a possible strike by Scottish refinery workers .
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries says it will boost its current 32-million-barrel-a-day output by a bit more than one quarter by the year 2020 .
That will help meet growing demand in the long term but has little effect on oil prices right now .
OPEC officials say there is sufficient oil on the market and blames rising prices on speculators and the falling U.S. dollar .
European Union regulators have fined Microsoft Corporation $ 357 million for failing to share programming code with its rivals , as demanded by a 2004 antitrust ruling .
The EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes says Microsoft is continuing its illegal conduct , and no company is above the law .
The fine was assessed at a rate of nearly $ 2 million a day from December 16 through June 20 .
EU officials say Microsoft 's daily fines will double ( to $ 3.8 million ) at the end of this month if the company 's violations continue .
The European Union fined Microsoft $ 633 million in 2004 and ordered the company to give its rivals the technical information necessary for their programs to operate smoothly on computers using Microsoft 's Windows operating system .
Microsoft has said it has 300 people working full time to comply with the EU 's orders , and that any additional fines would be unjustified .
Iraqi authorities say at least 10 people have been killed and 21 others wounded in a car bomb attack on a Shi'ite mosque in central Iraq .
Police say a suicide bomber blew himself up early Friday , as worshippers were leaving the al-Rasul al-Aadham mosque in the central town of Tuz Khurmatu , nearly 170 kilometers north of Baghdad .
Earlier Friday in the capital , Iraqi police say gunmen opened fire on a group of day laborers , killing at least three people and wounding 13 others .
The attacks come as part of a campaign of violence by insurgents that has killed more than 180 people in Iraq since Wednesday .
Separately , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed late Thursday in an explosion in the city of Ramadi , in al-Anbar province .
A Ukrainian court has ruled the privatization of the country 's largest steel mill was illegal .
A court in Kiev made the ruling Thursday regarding the Kryvorizhstal mill .
A consortium that included the son-in-law of former Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma purchased the complex in June for $ 800 million , far less than its estimated value .
Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said Wednesday that some 3,000 privatizations will be reviewed to ensure they were conducted fairly .
Meanwhile , Justice Minister Roman Zvarych is threatening to quit after less than two weeks on the job , citing efforts by businessmen to influence his ministry .
He told Canal Five television he refuses to allow businessmen who are also deputies with oil ties to interfere with his work , and said he will not allow members of the government , who he did not name , drag his family into corruption schemes .
Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , has been admitted to a hospital in India Thursday after complaining of abdominal pains .
His personal secretary said there is no major cause for concern .
Doctors at the hospital where he was admitted in Mumbai tell Reuters news agency that he is " cheerful . "
On Thursday , the Dalai Lama canceled two upcoming foreign trips to undergo medical tests , after experiencing discomfort during recent travels .
His office said the 73-year-old Buddhist leader 's doctors had diagnosed him with exhaustion and recommended that he complete some medical tests .
The Dalai Lama spends several months a year traveling to promote Tibetan causes .
He recently returned to India after a visit to France .
Afghan officials say two senior members of Afghanistan 's former Taleban regime have surrendered to the government under an amnesty offer .
The two men are Mullah Mohammad Naseem , the former Taleban governor of Zabul province , and Haji Mohammad Akhtar , the former police chief of Farah province .
The governor of Helmand province , Mullah Sher Mohammad , said they surrendered after month-long talks .
In the southeastern Khost province , the U.S. military said coalition forces have killed at least 12 insurgents in a clash in southeastern Khost province .
A military statement Thursday , said the fighting erupted late Tuesday , when insurgents fired rockets at a U.S. base at Salerno and troops retaliated with artillery and air strikes at rebel positions .
There were no coalition casualties .
Shops and schools are closed in the main city of Indian Kashmir in protest of Israel 's continuing air strikes on southern Lebanon .
The one-day strike Saturday in Kashmir 's summer capital of Srinagar was called by Syed Ali Geelani .
He heads the hard-line wing of the separatist alliance , the All Parties Hurriyat Conference .
Angry protests were held in several parts of India Friday against Israel 's military action .
Protests erupted soon after Muslim prayers Friday afternoon in Kashmir .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan and is claimed in full by both
The price of crude oil has fallen to its lowest level in more than 18 months as mild weather in the northern hemisphere has caused inventories to rise .
Light sweet crude for February delivery Tuesday dropped as much as $ 2 a barrel to $ 53.88 .
That is the lowest price per barrel in New York trading since June 2005 .
The price drop comes despite the disruption of Russia 's oil exports to Europe .
Moscow refuses to pay a newly imposed customs tax by Minsk for its oil crossing Belarus , which supplies 20 percent of Russian oil to Europe .
Oil also declined as traders expressed skepticism OPEC plans to cut oil production by another 500,000 barrels per day .
The international oil cartel agreed to a production cut of one million barrels per day in November , but prices have continued to drop .
Lynndie England arrives for a pretrial hearing at Fort Hood , Texas One of the U.S. Army soldiers at the center of the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal is scheduled to appear in a U.S. military court in Texas , Thursday for a pre-trial hearing and arraignment .
Private First Class Lynndie England is charged with maltreatment , conspiracy to maltreat detainees , and committing an indecent act .
She faces up to 11 years in prison .
In May , Private England 's case ended in a mistrial when the presiding judge threw out her guilty plea .
The judge said testimony from a key witness indicated that Private England did not know her actions were a crime when she committed them .
To plead guilty under U.S. military law , a defendant must know they were committing a crime .
Photos of Private England mistreating Iraqi detainees at the Abu Ghraib prison sparked international outrage last year .
Cuba has announced an increase in government salaries for workers with advanced university degrees , municipal and provincial employees , and those certified as masters of their trades or otherwise noted for their productivity .
The pay hike is designed to help those who were not affected by a minimum wage hike in May .
Retirement and social assistance pensions were also raised .
In a speech last week , Cuban President Fidel Castro indicated pay increases may be needed to battle corruption .
At the same time , Cuba announced a steep increase in utility rates for heavy users of electricity .
The heavily subsidized rates Cubans now pay for the first 100 kilowatt hours will stay the same , but after that , rates increase to up to three times their former rates for the heaviest users .
Granma , the Cuban Communist Party newspaper , said the increase was to encourage energy conservation among Cubans .
A group of prominent political religious and business figures , led by former Czech President Vaclav Havel , has criticized Russia 's handling of a separatist rebellion in Chechnya .
A letter by the group Wednesday accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin of using the war in Chechnya to take away people 's freedoms and re-establish an autocracy .
In addition to Havel , the authors of the letter include former Irish President Mary Robinson , retired South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu , and billionaire George Soros .
The letter appeared in a Prague newspaper , the Mlada Fronta Dnes , Wednesday as the Russian leader was due to begin a visit to the Czech capital .
Russian troops battled separatist rebels in Chechnya for several years in the 1990s , but the fighting has subsided in recent years with pro-Russian forces controlling much of the republic .
A winter storm in the northeastern United States has shut down airline travel and cut power to thousands of people .
U.S. weather forecasters said more than 50 centimeters of snow has fallen in some areas since Saturday , and more snow was expected through Sunday .
Officials closed at least two major airports servicing New York City , and air traffic was disrupted at other key cities .
Service resumed at Ronald Reagan National airport in Washington , which had closed earlier in the day .
Heavy snow snapped trees and power lines near Washington , cutting electricity to thousands of people .
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg warned residents to remain indoors until roads and sidewalks were cleared .
A blizzard warning was in effect for New York city and surrounding areas .
And The National Weather Service issued a heavy snow warning for an area extending from West Virginia to Maine .
Palestinian activists tore down a section of the Israeli-built barrier that cordons off the West Bank , in a protest that coincides with the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall .
Rock-throwing demonstrators cheered Monday as they used a truck to pull down a segment of the wall .
Israeli troops used tear gas to disperse the protesters .
The structure is a combination of concrete barriers , fencing and barbed wire that will measure about 700 kilometers long once construction is finished .
The United Nations estimates the barrier is more than 60 percent complete .
Israel says it needs the barrier for security , but Palestinians view it as a land-grab .
The wall cuts into territory Palestinians want for a future state , putting about 10 percent of the West Bank on the Israeli side of the barrier .
The presidential election in Lebanon has been postponed until Friday to give rival political factions more time to agree on a candidate .
Parliament speaker Nabih Berri announced the delay in a statement , saying the balloting in parliament was moved from Wednesday to Friday .
The delay is the fourth time voting has been postponed .
The pro-Western governing coalition and the Hezbollah-led opposition are at odds over who will succeed pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud , whose term ends Friday night .
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner and Arab League chief Amr Moussa are in Lebanon holding talks with both sides .
Lebanon 's government has threatened to use its simple parliamentary majority to elect one of its own members if the factions do not agree on a candidate .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visited Lebanon last week and called on leaders there to set aside their differences and elect a new president .
Some African heads of state plan to push for a united continent during an African Union summit that begins Sunday in the Ghanaian capital of Accra .
The three-day summit agenda is almost entirely dedicated to the idea of a United States of Africa .
Proponents of the plan argue that a united federation of African nations could exercise more influence and better address problems facing the world 's poorest continent .
Although several countries support the idea of a united continent , some regional powers like South Africa favor a more gradual consolidation of regional economic groups .
Leaders at the summit will also discuss the conflicts in Darfur and Zimbabwe .
The idea of a united Africa was conceived four decades ago by Ghana 's first president , Kwame Nkrumah .
Doctors say Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is recovering well from heart surgery and has been moved out of intensive care .
His doctors told several Indian news agencies Wednesday that the prime minister is likely to be discharged from the hospital within the next few days if he continues to recover on schedule .
The prime minister had heart bypass surgery on Saturday after he complained of chest pains and tests showed he had several blocked arteries .
He had a similar operation in Britain in 1990 .
Doctors have previously said that Mr. Singh , who is 76 , should be able to resume his full duties within four weeks .
No acting prime minister has been named .
Indian officials say until Mr. Singh recovers , there will be collective decision-making by the Cabinet , chaired by External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee .
In late 1999 , about 70 % of the economic infrastructure of Timor-Leste was laid waste by Indonesian troops and anti-independence militias .
Three hundred thousand people fled westward .
Over the next three years a massive international program , manned by 5,000 peacekeepers ( 8,000 at peak ) and 1,300 police officers , led to substantial reconstruction in both urban and rural areas .
By the end of 2005 , refugees had returned or had settled in Indonesia .
The country continues to face great challenges in rebuilding its infrastructure , strengthening the civil administration , and generating jobs for young people entering the work force .
The development of oil and gas resources in offshore waters has greatly supplemented government revenues .
This technology-intensive industry , however , has done little to create jobs for the unemployed because there are no production facilities in Timor-Leste .
Gas is piped to Australia .
In June 2005 , the National Parliament unanimously approved the creation of a Petroleum Fund to serve as a repository for all petroleum revenues and to preserve the value of Timor-Leste 's petroleum wealth for future generations .
The Fund held assets of US $ 6.6 billion as of October 2010 .
The economy continues to recover strongly from the mid-2006 outbreak of violence and civil unrest , which disrupted both private and public sector economic activity .
The government in 2008 resettled tens of thousands of an estimated 100,000 internally displaced persons ( IDPs ) ; most IDPs returned home by early 2009 .
Government spending increased markedly in 2009 and 2010 , primarily on basic infrastructure , including electricity and roads .
Limited experience in procurement and infrastructure building has hampered these projects .
The underlying economic policy challenge the country faces remains how best to use oil-and-gas wealth to lift the non-oil economy onto a higher growth path and to reduce poverty .
The U.S. Navy says it has captured a group of suspected pirates in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia .
The Navy says a missile destroyer , the USS Winston S. Churchill , and other U.S. Naval forces in the area located the pirate ship Saturday after receiving a report of a piracy attempt .
After unsuccessful attempts to contact the ship , the destroyer began what the Navy called " aggressive maneuvering " to stop the vessel .
The pirate ship finally stopped after the destroyer fired warning shots , and the crew effectively surrendered .
The Navy says sailors discovered small arms on the ship .
Pirates have carried out about 25 attacks off the Somali coast since last March .
Somalia 's transitional government has signed a multi-million dollar deal with a U.S. maritime security firm to fight piracy .
Ukraine 's president , Viktor Yushchenko , is to address a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress next week .
Senate Majority leader Bill Frist and House Speaker Dennis Hastert say they look forward to hearing from the Ukrainian leader April 6 .
In a statement , the lawmakers said Mr. Yushchenko 's election last year is inspiring the spread of democracy throughout the world .
Mr. Yushchenko meets President Bush at the White House Monday .
Last year 's presidential election in Ukraine was a bitter contest marred by controversy .
Mr. Yushchenko defeated his rival Viktor Yanukovych in a repeat election held after Ukraine 's Supreme Court threw out the results of a previous vote because of widespread fraud .
The medical aid group Doctors Without Borders says lead poisoning has killed some 400 children in northern Nigeria over the past six months .
The new toll is more than double the 160 deaths , including 111 children , that Nigerian authorities reported in June .
At that time , the World Health Organization said lead concentrations in parts of Nigeria 's Zamfara state were 250 times higher than those allowed in residential areas in the United States and France .
Nigerian health officials have said the poisoning is linked to illegal gold mining .
The WHO has sent epidemiologists and pediatricians to help contain the outbreak and prevent similar problems in the future .
Concentration of lead in the body can damage the kidneys , nervous system and reproductive system .
Children under the age of six are especially vulnerable .
Having a small , open economy makes Macedonia vulnerable to economic developments in Europe and dependent on regional integration and progress toward EU membership for continued economic growth .
At independence in September 1991 , Macedonia was the least developed of the Yugoslav republics , producing a mere 5 % of the total federal output of goods and services .
The collapse of Yugoslavia ended transfer payments from the central government and eliminated advantages from inclusion in a de~facto free trade area .
An absence of infrastructure , UN sanctions on the downsized Yugoslavia , and a Greek economic embargo over a dispute about the country 's constitutional name and flag hindered economic growth until 1996 .
Since then , Macedonia has maintained macroeconomic stability with low inflation , but it has so far lagged the region in attracting foreign investment and creating jobs , despite making extensive fiscal and business sector reforms .
Official unemployment remains high at 31.7 % , but may be overstated based on the existence of an extensive gray market , estimated to be more than 20 % of GDP , that is not captured by official statistics .
In the wake of the global economic downturn , Macedonia has experienced decreased foreign direct investment , lowered credit , and a large trade deficit .
However , as a result of conservative fiscal policies and a sound financial system , in 2010 the country received slightly improved credit ratings .
Macroeconomic stability also was maintained by a prudent monetary policy , which kept the domestic currency at the pegged level against the euro , while interest rates were falling .
As a result , GDP growth was modest , but positive , in 2010 .
Pakistani officials say five militants , including suicide bombers , have been killed while trying to enter a military training area in the country 's northwest .
Authorities say security forces opened fire on the attackers Tuesday as they tried to infiltrate the training center in the town of Mardan , near the Afghan border .
Officials say three suicide bombers detonated their explosives during the gunbattle , while two other militants were killed by troops .
Four soldiers were wounded in the attack .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility , but Taliban militants have carried out attacks in the area in the past .
A U.N. spokeswoman says the United Nations Human Rights Council will hold a special meeting later this week to examine Israel 's military offensive in Lebanon .
The spokeswoman said Tuesday Tunisia requested the meeting on behalf of the 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference .
The Islamic countries called on the council to take action on what they called " gross violations of human rights by Israel in Lebanon . "
China , Russia and South Africa also signed the request .
In a similar session in July , the council voted 29 to 11 to condemn Israel 's military operations in the Gaza Strip .
Israel 's ambassador rejected the July resolution and accused the council of bias against the Jewish state .
A panel of U.N. experts has asked the Security Council to impose sanctions on people it accuses of blocking peace in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The panel 's report says the council should consider placing a travel ban and a total asset freeze on figures in the Sudanese government , Darfur rebel groups , and government-backed militias .
The Security Council authorized the sanctions last March but has yet to impose them on anyone .
News agencies that obtained the report say it was scheduled to go to the full council this week but was temporarily blocked by Qatar and China .
Tens of thousands of people in Darfur have been killed and some two million displaced during three years of conflict between the rebels and Sudan 's government .
Several rounds of peace talks have failed to yield any substantial progress .
A Burmese aid group says Burma 's military government has launched a new offensive along the country 's eastern border with Thailand .
The Free Burma Rangers says Burmese forces have displaced thousands of villagers in Karen state , burning their homes and rice crops .
The group says nearly 5000 villagers are hiding in jungle and mountain areas of Burma .
The U.S. Campaign for Burma last week reported similar attacks .
The human right group said the attacks were aimed at bringing eastern Burma , which has historically been under control of Burma 's ethnic minorities , under the control of the country 's military government .
Rights groups say more than 500,000 villagers are believed to have been forced from their homes in eastern Burma over the past decade .
Israel has returned to Lebanon the bodies of three Hezbollah militants who were killed in cross-border fighting earlier this week .
Israeli military officials say the bodies were returned in an effort to defuse tensions and following a request from Lebanon .
Red Cross officials brought the bodies to the Lebanese border , where hundreds of black-clad Hezbollah fighters were waiting .
The three were killed Monday when they crossed into Israel during some of the heaviest fighting along the border since Israeli troops withdrew from southern Lebanon in 2000 .
A fourth Hezbollah fighter was killed , but his body was quickly retrieved by the Lebanese .
Eleven Israeli soldiers were wounded in the fighting .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say American and Iraqi forces have launched operations against insurgents in the northern city of Mosul .
Spokeswoman Captain Angela Bowman told reporters in Iraq 's third largest city that forces are moving in Tuesday to secure police stations hit hard by insurgents in recent days .
The most intense fighting in Iraq has been shifting from Fallujah to Mosul and other areas .
On Monday , U.S. Marine officials said coalition forces were now able to move throughout Fallujah after a week of heavy battles to oust entrenched militants , but were still finding pockets of resistance .
Elsewhere , officials say insurgents killed an American soldier in centraql Iraq , near Balad .
Human Rights Watch says a climate of fear threatens the Democratic Republic of Congo 's first elections in 40 years .
The New York-based rights group says there was an increase in the number of attacks and detentions of journalists , human rights defenders and members of the political opposition in April and May .
Human Rights Watch said Congolese authorities have failed to provide protection to the groups , and charged that security forces were involved in some of the attacks .
The rights group urged a U.N. Security Council delegation set to visit the DRC Sunday to speak out against the intimidation .
It said the elections , set for July 30 , can not be free and fair if the press and civil society are too afraid to speak out or engage in legitimate political debate .
The DRC has been struggling to recover from a five-year civil war that left an estimated four million people dead .
The French sports daily L'Equipe has named Swiss tennis star Roger Federer its " Champion of Champions " for 2005 .
The world number-one men 's tennis player received 676 points in a vote by L'Equipe journalists to give him an overwhelming victory over world motorcycle champion Valentino Rossi of Italy .
Rossi got 387 points to take second place .
Third place went to Formula 1 world champion Fernando Alonso of Spain , while Ethiopian distance runner Kenenisa Bekele took fourth place .
The 24-year-old Federer dominated men 's tennis in 2005 , compiling an 81-4 winning record for the season .
He also captured the Wimbledon and U.S. Open Grand Slam titles for the second straight year .
Federer is the just the second tennis player to win the L'Equipe award in its 25-year history .
American Andre Agassi won in 1999 .
Afghan security officials say Taliban militants have hanged five policeman in southern Afghanistan as a public warning to others .
The Uruzgan province police chief , Juma Gul Himat , describing the incident Sunday , said the five policemen had been abducted two months ago and were mutilated before being killed and their bodies hung from trees .
In other developments , a provincial police official , Sayed Agha Saqeb says NATO-led forces killed at least 20 Taliban militants in fighting that began Saturday west of Kandahar .
A Taliban spokesman , Yusuf Ahmadi said the Kandahar operation killed only four insurgents , and left many civilians dead .
Recent violence also claimed the lives of two Canadian soldiers and their interpreter .
Cuban President Raul Castro says the ruling Communist Party will hold a congress in April , the first party congress to be held in Cuba since 1997 .
Mr. Castro said the island 's leaders will meet to chart a new economic future for the country .
He made the announcement after meeting Monday with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
There has been intense speculation that Fidel Castro 's future might be discussed at the next Communist Party congress , but Raul Castro did not mention his brother Monday .
Fidel Castro , 84 , stepped down as president of Cuba in 2006 , but remains head of the Communist Party .
Australia is scheduled to host the sixth annual Homeless World Cup later this year .
The event brings together hundreds of homeless players from 48 countries to compete .
VOA 's Sean Maroney has more on the recent Homeless USA Cup in Washington .
Kidnappers in Haiti have released a group of children they abducted from a school bus early Thursday .
Police said Friday the kidnappers freed the children unharmed later Thursday .
Local media report the abductors were paid an unspecified ransom .
But the Associated Press quotes a police commissioner as denying any ransom was paid .
Police also said they are working to secure the release of an American missionary kidnapped Thursday in a separate incident .
Neither case was considered to be politically motivated .
The U.S. unemployment rate fell unexpectedly in July , in one of the strongest signals yet that the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression may be ending .
A report from the Labor Department Friday shows the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent last month , compared to 9.5 percent in June .
It is the first time the jobless rate has fallen since April 2008 .
Employers cut 247,000 jobs in July .
The number is much less than analysts had expected , but still an indication of a weak job market .
In total , about 14.5 million people are unemployed in the United States .
President Barack Obama has said the $ 787 billion economic stimulus plan he signed within months of taking office has stopped the recession from getting worse .
British diplomat John Sawers says Iran presented no major new proposals at Monday 's last-ditch talks aimed at resolving the standoff over Iran 's nuclear program .
But Iran 's negotiator Javad Vaeedi described the session with Britain , Germany and France in Brussels as positive .
The talks came before Monday 's meeting in London of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany on Iran 's nuclear program .
President Bush , speaking at the White House , said there is an international consensus that Iran should not be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon .
He says U.S. and other officials are working on how to go about achieving that goal .
Later this week , the International Atomic Energy Agency holds an emergency session that could see Iran referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The pairs freeskate program highlights action at the 2006 Olympics Monday in Turin , Italy as top Russian and Chinese pairs duel for a gold medal .
Two-time world and five-time European champion Maxim Marinin and Tatiana Totmianina of Russian placed first in the short program Saturday .
They will try to hold off Zhang Dan and Zhang Hao ( not related ) .
The Chinese pair is second after the short program .
Gold is up for grabs in the women 's 15-kilometer biathlon , which combines shooting with cross-country skiing .
Seven-time world champion Liv-Grete Poiree of Norway will seek her first Olympic gold in her third appearance at the Winter Games .
Women 's half-pipe snowboarding will award a gold medal , with 2002 Olympic champion Kelly Clark hoping to take home another gold and lead a U.S. sweep .
The men go for gold in the 500-meters long track speed skating event .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev has sent a new nuclear arms reduction treaty with the United States to parliament for ratification .
Mr. Medvedev and U.S. President Barack Obama signed the treaty last month in the Czech capital , Prague .
President Obama submitted the treaty to the U.S. Senate for approval earlier this month .
Mr. Medvedev urged Russian lawmakers Friday to synchronize their ratification process with the Senate .
The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty cuts U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals by 30 percent , leaving each side with about 1,500 strategic nuclear weapons .
The agreement replaces the 1991 START treaty .
Both the U.S. Senate and Russia 's parliament must ratify the treaty before it can take effect .
President Obama has called the treaty " an important milestone " for nuclear security and non-proliferation .
Icy rain and snow brought down a major power line in Moscow , shutting down the city 's main airport and snarling traffic on its busy streets .
Officials said on Sunday that flights from the Domodedovo airport were suspended for almost 15 hours until the power was partially restored and some planes were allowed to take off .
Flights from Moscow 's second airport , Sheremetyevo , were operating , but travelers experienced delays .
Roughly 200,000 people were left without power as ice snapped power lines and slicked over the capital 's streets and encased cars .
According to Russia 's state-owned news agency , Ria Novosti , some 6,000 passengers were stranded at Domodedovo , and taxis were charging more than $ 300 to take clients to the airport .
Officials warned residents to stay home until conditions improved .
Philosophy is a game with objectives and no rules .
Mathematics is a game with rules and no objectives .
Although 115 species of fish have been identified in the territorial waters of Clipperton Island , the only economic activity is tuna fishing .
The United Nation 's food agency has tripled the amount of emergency aid it is seeking for Niger , saying more is needed to save 2.5 million people from extreme hunger .
The World Food Program said Wednesday it now needs more than $ 57 million for its operations in Niger .
It says this is the third time in six months it has raised its appeal .
Executive Director James Morris says if donors had responded earlier , the cost of the operation would be greatly reduced .
He said the situation has deteriorated severely over recent months .
The agency says donations only started flowing recently after television pictures showed images of starving children .
Tuesday , Niger 's President , Mamadou Tandja , thanked humanitarian agencies for sending emergency aid and said Niger 's food crisis is improving .
Finland was a province and then a grand duchy under Sweden from the 12th to the 19th centuries , and an autonomous grand duchy of Russia after 1809 .
It won its complete independence in 1917 .
During World War II , it was able to successfully defend its freedom and resist invasions by the Soviet Union - albeit with some loss of territory .
In the subsequent half century , the Finns made a remarkable transformation from a farm / forest economy to a diversified modern industrial economy ; per capita income is now among the highest in Western Europe .
A member of the European Union since 1995 , Finland was the only Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation in January 1999 .
In the 21st century , the key features of Finland 's modern welfare state are a high standard of education , equality promotion , and national social security system - currently challenged by an aging population and the fluctuations of an export-driven economy .
Political analysts say the results of some close elections across the United States could be delayed for days or weeks , as absentee and provisional ballots are counted .
Many states have allowed voters to cast absentee ballots for weeks .
Those votes , however , usually take longer to count , and a final tally of the results from those ballots could take days .
Provisional ballots are often used when a voter is not registered at the polling place , who did not bring the proper type of identification or who shows up at the wrong voting precinct .
In 2004 , the first year provisional ballots were used nationwide , about 1.9 million people cast them .
More than 1.2 million of those votes were ruled valid .
In the northwestern state of Washington in 2004 , provisional ballots played a role in delaying Democratic gubernatorial candidate Christine Gregoire 's victory for more than eight weeks .
Haitian authorities said three inmates were killed Sunday in a prison riot in Haiti 's quake-damaged penitentiary .
Officials said the three were trying to escape from the Port-au-Prince prison .
It was not immediately clear if any other inmates did escape .
United Nations troops and Haitian police were in the prison at the time of the uprising .
The U.N. said the inmates briefly held seven people connected with the United Nations hostage .
Some of the hostages suffered minor injuries .
The Miami Herald newspaper reports the prison upheaval was quashed by mid-afternoon when U.N. troops blocked off the streets surrounding the prison .
Sunday 's uprising continues a long saga of unrest and dangerous conditions in Haiti 's prisons .
In the chaos after Haiti 's devastating earthquake in January , thousands of prisoners escaped the massively overcrowded penitentiary , including some well-known , dangerous gang leaders .
Nigeria has rejected as unfair a new corruption index which says the oil-rich nation is seen as the most corrupt on the African continent .
In a statement , Nigeria 's Information Ministry said the index by Berlin-based group Transparency International failed to recognize the government 's efforts at fighting graft .
It accused the group of using faulty and outdated information in its annual ranking of 146 nations based on perceived corruption .
Nigerian officials also say the index focuses on governments taking bribes , but ignores western companies blamed for offering illegal payments .
The index lists Nigeria ahead of only Bangladesh and Haiti as the most corrupt nations in the world .
Transparency International says corruption is often high among other oil-producing nations as well , including Angola , Chad , Libya and Sudan .
Spanish authorities say firefighters are making progress against wildfires that have scorched large parts of the Canary Islands .
Officials said Wednesday the fires on the main islands of Tenerife and Gran Canaria had " stabilized " as winds eased and temperatures moderated .
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero inspected the damage and promised special government aid .
Authorities say a quarter of the forests on both islands have been incinerated , along with habitats of rare plants and animals .
The blazes have not reached coastal resorts popular with European tourists .
Environmentalists call the fires a catastrophe .
About 9,000 people were in emergency shelters on Tenerife Wednesday , while most of the 5,000 displaced people on Gran Canaria have begun returning home .
Tenerife authorities say they suspect arsonists started the wildfire on the island .
Police on Gran Canaria are holding a forest worker who confessed to starting a fire there last Friday .
Pakistan 's Interior Ministry says gunmen have released all the children briefly held hostage at a high school in North West Frontier Province .
Ministry spokesman Javed Cheema says the gunmen surrendered to the local jirga ( tribal council ) along with their weapons and released the children .
The ministry said up to 250 students were being held .
The gunmen took refuge in the school after an aborted attempt to abduct a health official in a neighboring district .
The official was eventually freed after clashes with police .
Police then surrounded the building while tribesmen negotiated with the insurgents .
Officials say the kidnappers had demanded safe passage in return for freeing the students .
Violence has spread in recent months in areas of Pakistan near the border with Afghanistan , which are believed to be sanctuaries for al Qaeda and Taliban militants .
Pakistan and India have begun two days of talks in Islamabad on a proposed multi-billion dollar pipeline that would carry gas from Iran into India through Pakistan .
It is the first meeting between India 's Oil Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar and his Pakistani counterpart , Amanullah Khan Jadoon , on the 2,700 kilometer project .
Pakistan 's foreign ministry spokesman said recently the bilateral talks will be followed later this year by three-way discussions involving Iranian officials .
Washington opposes the project over concerns about Iran 's nuclear program .
But Mr. Aiyar dismissed U.S. opposition , saying India will not be pressured by any country .
Kids in the back seat cause accidents .
Accidents in the back seat cause kids .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the Kremlin 's opposition to independence for Kosovo is based on international law and a desire for regional stability .
Mr. Putin said during talks with Serbian President Boris Tadic Sunday that Russia 's position is not based on what he calls ethnic or historical considerations .
Mr. Tadic repeated Serbia 's opposition to an independent Kosovo , but said he is willing to compromise .
Kosovo is an ethnic Albanian majority province of Serbia .
The United Nations Security Council is considering a draft resolution that backs a U.N. envoy 's plan for supervised independence for the region .
Russia , a traditional Serbian ally , has hinted it would veto the resolution .
Kosovo has been under U.N. supervision since 1999 , when NATO airstrikes drove out Serbian and Yugoslav forces waging violence against the ethnic Albanians .
Russia and France are calling on Iran to stop all uranium enrichment .
The two countries issued their statement Tuesday during a visit to Moscow by French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin .
Iran resumed small-scale uranium enrichment Monday -- an initial step in the process of producing fuel for nuclear reactors or atomic weapons .
Iran had threatened to resume enrichment after the International Atomic Energy Agency referred it this month to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
China , another permanent member of the U.N. Security Council , called Tuesday for continued diplomatic efforts to ease growing tensions over Iran 's nuclear program .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , who met with President Bush in Washington Monday , said he hopes there will be no steps to escalate the situation .
Iran denies Western charges that it is trying to build atomic weapons .
A moderate earthquake has sent people running away from the coastline of Indonesia 's Sulawesi island , less than a week after a powerful quake off Java island generated a tsunami that killed nearly 700 people .
The latest quake , of 6.1 magnitude , struck deep under the waters of Tomini Bay off northern Sulawesi 's Gorontalo province Sunday .
Fears of a tsunami proved unfounded , however , and there are no reports of damage or injuries .
Japanese and U.S. monitoring agencies in the Pacific Ocean did not issue a tsunami warning after the quake .
A powerful earthquake off the coast of Java last Monday generated a crushing wave that barreled through homes , restaurants and hotels in the Pangandaran area .
Indonesian officials say the death toll from that tsunami has climbed to at least 668 .
Iraqi officials say 965 Shi'ite pilgrims were killed Wednesday in a stampede on a bridge leading to a Baghdad shrine .
They say more than 450 others were injured and that the death toll could still rise .
Officials say panic swept through the crowd after a rumor spread that a suicide bomber was among the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims .
Hundreds of women , children and the elderly were either trampled or shoved to their deaths in the Tigris River below .
Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari declared three days of mourning .
The United States offered its condolences and help to the victims .
Earlier Wednesday , insurgents fired mortars near the shrine , killing seven people .
A little-known militant group claimed responsibility for the attack in an unverifiable Internet statement .
Elsewhere in Iraq , the U.S. military reports the deaths of two soldiers since Tuesday .
The U.S. secretary of the interior said he will not change a Bush administration rule on protection of polar bears , despite pressure from environmentalists .
Ken Salazar announced Friday that a special rule applying to polar bears , under the Endangered Species Act , can only restrict dangers to the bears that originate in the bears ' northern habitat .
That rules out application of the rule to carbon emissions farther south , even though they can affect the Arctic climate where the bears live .
Salazar said the Endangered Species Act was not the " proper mechanism " for dealing with climate change and said a more comprehensive strategy is needed .
Environmentalists criticized the decision as threatening to the polar bear population .
Polar bears have been a touchstone in discussions on climate change because they rely on sea ice , which scientists say is melting as the planet 's atmosphere warms .
More than 100 Vietnamese Montagnards were who forcibly repatriated from Cambodia earlier this month may get a chance to resettle in the United States .
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi says U.S. and Vietnamese officials are discussing possible options , including resettling the Montagnards in the United States .
The spokesman tells VOA that Hanoi supports the review of the case .
The Montagnards , from Vietnam 's Central Highlands were among several hundred who fled to Cambodia last year after security forces cracked down on demonstrators protesting Hanoi 's land confiscation policy and lack of religious freedom .
They were forcibly sent back to Vietnam after the United Nations denied them refugee status .
U.S. officials have been allowed for the first time to see an American teacher who has been jailed in North Korea on charges of illegally entering the country .
State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said Monday that a U.S. diplomat , two doctors and a translator were in Pyongyang from Monday through Wednesday of last week .
He said he believed the meeting with 30-year-old Aijalon Gomes took place at a hospital .
The spokesman added that the United States is continuing to seek his immediate release because of health worries .
Gomes , who had worked as an English teacher in Seoul , was arrested in January and has been sentenced to eight years of hard labor .
North Korea said last month that he had attempted suicide .
Namibia has sworn in a new parliament , as President Sam Nujoma readies to step down after 15 years in office .
Seventy-two lawmakers took the oath of office in Windhoek Sunday and elected former prime minister Theo Ben Gurirab as the new speaker of parliament .
The ruling South West Africa People 's Organization ( SWAPO ) party controls 55 seats in the legislature , following a victory in November elections .
Monday , President Nujoma will hand over power to Hifikepunye Pohamba , becoming Namibia 's second head of state since independence from apartheid-era South Africa .
Mr. Pohamba has vowed to maintain many of the economic policies of Mr. Nujoma and advance a land redistribution program .
Germany has won third place in the World cup with a late game header , beating Uruguay 3-2 .
Germany 's Sami Khedira scored in the 82nd minute after Uruguay 's defense failed to clear a corner from Mesut Oezil .
The goal ended Uruguay 's hopes of beating Germany for the first time in 82 years .
Thomas Mueller gave Germany the lead in the 19th minute with his fifth goal of the tournament , but Uruguayan Edinson Cavani equalized the score nine minutes later .
Uruguay took the lead early in the second half with a strike by Diego Forlan , but Marcell Jansen leveled the score for Germany within six minutes .
The championship game will be played Sunday between Spain and The Netherlands .
Syria says it is forming a joint commission with Beirut to investigate whether a Syrian military post is actually in Lebanese territory .
The announcement follows the broadcast of Arab television news footage showing a border post near a village in the southern Bekaa valley , in the area of Deir al-Ashayier to the east of Kfar Kouk , where Syrian troops are reported to be still stationed .
Last month , Syria said it had withdrawn all of its troops and intelligence agents from Lebanon , but the pullout is still being verified by a United Nations team in the country .
Last week , U.N. officials said the Lebanese government still does not fully control large parts of the country .
Officials in southern India say four days of torrential rains and flash floods have killed more than 130 people .
The army sent troops and helicopters into Karnataka state and neighboring Andhra Pradesh to rescue stranded families and deliver emergency food and medical supplies .
Hundreds of thousands of people have already been evacuated .
Officials say the rains destroyed thousands of homes .
Flooding has also destroyed crops , washed away roads and disrupted communication links .
Officials expect the death toll will rise as they reach areas that remain inaccessible .
Weather experts say the intense rains stem from a storm in the Bay of Bengal .
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the edge of the cliff as she possibly could , in the hope of securing her greater safety .
She turned her sound eye towards the land that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter or hound , and her injured eye towards the sea , from whence she entertained no anticipation of danger .
Some boatmen sailing by saw her , and taking a successful aim , mortally wounded her .
Yielding up her last breath , she gasped forth this lament :
" O wretched creature that I am ! to take such precaution against the land , and after all to find this seashore , to which I had come for safety , so much more perilous . "
Lawyers for imprisoned Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky say authorities have filed new charges against their client .
The lawyers say they are still trying to determine the exact nature of the charges .
But they indicate that those filed Monday appear to differ little from earlier charges against the imprisoned former oil executive .
They called the new filing an effort to extend the inquiry into the case .
Khodorkovsky , the former chief of the Yukos Oil Company , is serving eight years in prison for fraud and tax evasion - charges he says were politically motivated because of his support for opposition politicians .
The former oil executive is being held in the Siberian city of Chita , where authorities have been investigating money laundering and theft charges against him .
The probe involves the theft of more than $ 33 million from Yukos subsidiaries .
An Iraqi judge in the southern city of Basra has ordered the arrest of two British soldiers freed Monday in a controversial British raid on a local prison .
The charges against the soldiers include killing an Iraqi policeman and wounding another .
British officials said the warrants have no legal basis , because British troops come under British jurisdiction .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , the leader , Abdel Aziz al-Hakim of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite political party - Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq endorsed the draft constitution and urged Shi'ites to vote " yes " in next month 's national referendum .
Also in Baghdad , police say a suicide car bomb exploded near an Iraqi military checkpoint killing two soldiers .
And the United Nations World Food Program warns that a lack of donors means it will not be able to feed about three million people in Iraq , more than half of them children .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the European Union and the United States disagree on whether to lift the embargo on arms sales to China .
In a television interview broadcast by the BBC on Sunday , Ms. Rice said lifting the ban could upset the military balance in East Asia , and called it a serious concern .
She added that it could also send the wrong signal to China on human rights .
The European Union is considering the resumption of weapons sales , but says China would have to respect human rights and regional stability .
Arms sales were banned in 1989 following China 's Tiananmen Square crackdown .
The U.S. manufacturing sector expanded in September , suggesting the economy may overcome the effects of the two recent hurricanes .
The strength of the expansion surprised some analysts who were expecting a decline .
Monday 's data came from a survey by the Institute for Supply Managers .
Their index of manufacturing activity grew 5.8 points to a reading of 59.4 .
Any reading over 50 indicates an expanding manufacturing sector .
A separate report from the U.S. Commerce Department Monday said construction spending in the United States climbed to a record high in August .
Some experts said the increase was fueled by a renewed boom in housing .
Many analysts expect further expansion of the construction sector as residents rebuild homes and businesses wrecked by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
Some pro-opposition demonstrators in Ukraine have ended a two-week vigil in the capital after lawmakers approved a series of electoral reforms .
Tens of thousands of people had packed Kiev 's main square following a flawed presidential runoff election on November 21 .
Opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko Wednesday , urged the masses to return home , but to look toward the court-ordered repeat election on December 26 .
Parliament Wednesday adopted the election reforms aimed at preventing fraud in the new vote .
Also included are constitutional changes that transfer some presidential powers to parliament .
The opposition has also ended a blockade on government buildings .
Some demonstrators remain in Kiev .
Meanwhile , outgoing President Leonid Kuchma has fired Prosecutor General Hennadiy Vasylyev following opposition demands for his dismissal in connection with the election crisis .
Rival presidential candidate Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych says the new electoral measures will not stop fraud .
Officials from the World Health Organization say they fear Yemen could be facing a major polio epidemic , after confirming 83 cases of the disease .
Sixty-seven of the cases were found in a single province al-Hudaidah .
Meanwhile , health officials are investigating another 411 suspected cases across the country .
A first round of vaccinations was completed last month , and officials say another round is planned .
Yemen is one of 16 previously polio-free countries that have reported new cases of the disease since 2003 .
The water-borne disease , which mostly strikes the young , attacks the nervous system and can cause paralysis and sometimes death .
Reports from Syria say a small aircraft apparently used by the military has crashed near Damascus , killing three people on board .
Witnesses said the plane appeared to be on a training flight Sunday when it came down .
There was no immediate confirmation of the incident from Syrian officials .
The plane crash happened at a time of heightened tension between Syria and Israel , which carried out an air strike deep inside Syrian territory on September 6 .
Neither country has given much information about the target of the Israeli raid .
Pakistani authorities say security forces have captured a high-ranking Taleban leader in Quetta , the capital of southwestern Baluchistan province .
Intelligence officials say Mullah Obaidullah Akhund , a former Taleban defense minister and a close associate of fugitive Taleban leader Mullah Omar , was arrested during a raid on a home earlier this week .
The Pakistani government has not confirmed the arrest .
Akhund would be the most senior leader from the Islamist militia to be nabbed since the Taleban was ousted from power in neighboring Afghanistan in late 2001 .
His arrest follows a surprise visit to Pakistan by U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney , who urged President Pervez Musharraf to do more to stop insurgents from crossing into Afghanistan .
General Musharraf reiterated the country is doing all it can to secure its border and defeat insurgents .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has sought to defuse anger over his recent remarks about Shi'ite Muslims being more loyal to Iran than to their home countries , saying he was referring only to religion .
In an interview published Saturday in the official Akhbar al-Youm newspaper , Mr. Mubarak says he only wanted to warn of threats to Iraq 's unity and sovereignty .
Last week , Mr. Mubarak told al-Arabiya television during an interview that civil war in Iraq had already begun among Shi'ites , Sunnis , Kurds and foreign fighters from Asia .
The Egyptian president also said Iran has significant influence over Iraq 's majority Shi'ite population .
Iraqi leaders and Shi'ites across the region denounced Mr. Mubarak 's remarks and accused him of fueling sectarian tensions between Islam 's two main sects .
The crew of the U.S. space shuttle Atlantis has returned to the southeastern state of Florida to prepare for a new launch attempt on Wednesday .
Their shuttle launch was scrubbed earlier this week when a tropical storm Ernesto was expected to pass near the launch site .
The spacecraft was moved to a hangar , and the six astronauts flew back to their training base in Houston .
If the National Air and Space Administration is not able to launch Atlantis next week , the mission to the International Space Station likely will be postponed until October .
NASA 's plans call for an 11-day mission to the space station , where astronauts will conduct three spacewalks to attach solar panels .
The panels eventually will generate one quarter of the station 's energy .
Turkish security officials say one soldier and 12 Kurdish rebels were killed in a clash in eastern Turkey .
They say the fighting erupted in Tunceli province during a military offensive against the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK .
Clashes usually intensify during this time of year , as melting snow allows the Kurdish rebels to move more freely .
Last week , Turkey 's top military official , General Yasar Buyukanit , called for an incursion into Iraq to pursue Kurdish rebels based there .
The PKK announced a unilateral ceasefire in October , but Turkey rejected it .
Kurdish rebels have been fighting Turkey for autonomy since 1984 .
The conflict has claimed more than 37,000 lives .
The U.S. considers the PKK a terrorist organization .
The Arab League 's chief says the 22-member organization will soon open an office in Iraq .
Amr Moussa made the pledge during a joint news conference Thursday in Baghdad alongside Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
Mr. al-Jaafari echoed criticism of the League for not establishing a presence sooner in Iraq , saying he had hoped that the League would have had a " greater role " there earlier .
The two leaders met against a backdrop of new violence , with at least six Iraqis killed in attacks across the country .
Meanwhile , the Arab world 's media reacted with mixed emotions to the start Wednesday of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein 's trial on charges of killing 143 of his countrymen .
Some papers welcomed the trial , but others said it could fuel ethnic and sectarian tensions in Iraq .
An audio recording posted on the Internet Wednesday , says Muslim religious scholars or Ulemas have betrayed Islamic fighters by keeping silent about U.S. actions in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The message charges the Ulemas have quit supporting the mujahedin , betraying them in the darkest circumstances and leaving them to confront the world 's greatest power alone .
The recording was attributed to wanted al-Qaida-linked terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqwai .
Its authenticity could not be independently verified .
Al-Zarqawi - Iraq 's most wanted man - is believed to have fled his base in Fallujah during the U.S.-led assault on the insurgent-held city earlier this month .
Another Bosnian Serb military figure accused of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia is surrendering to the U.N. tribunal in the Hague .
Gojko Jankovic , a former paramilitary leader who has been a fugitive for more than five years , turned himself in to Bosnian Serb authorities Sunday in the town of Banja Luka .
He is expected to be transferred to The Hague on Monday .
The U.N. tribunal says that during the violence of the 1990s , soldiers under Mr. Jankovic 's command arrested a group of women in the town of Foca and brutally abused and raped them during interrogations .
Mr. Jankovic is the sixth Bosnian Serb to surrender to the U.N. court in less than two months .
However , the two main targets of the long-running war-crimes prosecution - former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and his military commander , Ratko Mladic - remain at large .
The government of Venezuela says it has signed an agreement to buy an American company 's interest in Venezuela 's largest telecommunications company .
On Monday Venezuelan officials announced the agreement to purchase 28 percent of CANTV from Verizon , a telecommunications company based in the United States .
In early January , President Hugo Chavez said Venezuela should regain control of strategic sectors of its economy .
He asked the national assembly to grant him special powers to nationalize businesses .
Last week , Venezuela agreed to buy a controlling stake in the country 's largest private electric company .
On February 2 , Mr. Chavez gave foreign oil companies three months to surrender control of their operations in Venezuela .
The U.S. has criticized the nationalization plan .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said last week President Chavez is destroying his country , economically and politically .
A Pakistani army official says government troops have killed 18 militants who attacked a military checkpoint near the Afghan border .
Major General Waheed Arshad says Tuesday 's violence erupted when around 40 militants fired at a military patrol in North Waziristan , in Pakistan 's northwest .
The government troops responded , backed by helicopter gunships .
Also in North Waziristan today , four soldiers were abducted by suspected militants near the town of Bannu .
And in South Waziristan , a roadside bomb wounded six paramilitary soldiers Tuesday near the Afghan border .
Violence has risen in Pakistan since security forces stormed the radical Red Mosque in the capital , Islamabad , earlier this month following a week long standoff .
More than 100 people were killed .
A written statement purportedly from Taleban leader Mullah Omar mourns the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , and vows to keep fighting in Afghanistan .
In the statement that surfaced Friday in Pakistan , Omar said Zarqawi 's death - described as " martyrdom " - would not weaken the resistance movement in Iraq or stop the battle in Afghanistan .
The authenticity of the statement could not be confirmed .
An international conference on world food security and climate change is taking place in Rome .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is there , along with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Experts say global warming is having an impact on the world 's food supply and may impact it even more in the future .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti explains .
Bulgaria has criticized Libya 's Supreme Court for postponing a ruling on the appeal of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor sentenced to death on charges of deliberately infecting children with AIDS .
Bulgarian President Georgi Parvanov says the court 's decision to delay the ruling until January 31st prolongs the tragedy of the detainees .
Relatives of some of the infected children fought with riot police when the postponement was announced .
The court gave no reason for putting off its decision .
The defendants deny the charges , and human rights groups say Libyan police used torture to force them to confess .
Here in Washington , State Department spokesman Adam Ereli repeated U.S. calls for the defendants ' release and said establishment of normalized relations with Libya depends on Libyan progress on human rights .
Indian opposition leader Lal Krishna Advani says he will resign as head of the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) .
In a statement issued Sunday in Chennai , Mr. Advani pledged to step down after the party 's next plenary meeting in December .
This is the second time the former deputy prime minister announced his resignation .
Mr. Advani first offered to step down in June after returning from a visit to Pakistan .
His praise for the Islamic nation 's founder Mohammed Ali Jinnah angered staunch Hindu nationalists , who blame Mr. Jinnah for the violent partition of the subcontinent in 1947 .
The rift within the party that Mr. Advani 's comments provoked was temporarily patched over .
Saudi officials say security forces have killed a suspected militant in the western city of Jeddah after the man tried to use a hand grenade against them .
Officials said the incident took place Saturday after security forces surrounded the man 's vehicle in the city 's Jamia district .
They said police found guns , ammunition , hand grenades , pipe bombs , and money in the car .
Saudi officials have blamed al-Qaida militants for a wave of violence that has claimed dozens of lives in the kingdom since May of last year .
A major earthquake jolted a largely empty area of the southern Atlantic Ocean Monday morning , between Antarctica and Argentina .
Seismologists around the world are on alert , but there is no sign of any tsunami triggered by the earthquake , which was measured at a magnitude of at least 7.3 .
The U.S. National Earthquake Information Center says the earthquake was centered about 10 kilometers below the ocean floor , nearly 350 kilometers southeast of the South Sandwich Islands .
It hit shortly after six hours , Universal Time .
Scientists in Japan and Finland said they measured the quake 's strength at magnitude 7.5 and 7.4 , respectively .
Britain administers the South Sandwich Islands , an uninhabited chain roughly 4,000 kilometers southeast of Buenos Aires .
Argentina also claims the islands .
Afghanistan 's Health Ministry has confirmed the presence of bird flu in eastern Nangarhar province .
Health Ministry Deputy Faizullah Kakar told VOA that the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu virus was confirmed by officials Friday .
A team of doctors also suspected a human case of bird flu in the region but discovered the person was suffering from malaria .
The area has been quarantined , and the Health Ministry says officials have begun an information campaign .
Earlier this week , Afghan authorities ordered the slaughter of birds in both Nangarhar and Kunar provinces , suspecting an outbreak of bird flu .
Last year , Afghanistan discovered cases of the H5N1 virus in birds , but not humans .
The deadly strain of the bird flu virus has killed at least 160 people worldwide since 2003 .
Nepal 's parliament has voted to abolish the country 's centuries-old monarchy and change to a republic .
Friday 's vote was part of negotiations between former Maoist rebels and six other political parties .
The Maoists bolted from the interim government in September after demanding election reform and an immediate end to the monarchy .
The final vote was 270 - 3 .
King Gyanendra will still remain on the throne until parliamentary elections are held in April .
Under the plan , voters will elect 240 assembly members by direct vote , and 335 other candidates based on proportional representation .
The vote brings to an end a decade-long effort by the Maoists to replace the monarchy .
The rebels which fought a bloody civil war that left some 13,000 Nepalese dead .
U.S. President George Bush is encouraging all Americans to vote in national elections Tuesday and prove to the world that self-government can endure .
During his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush said U.S. elections serve as a model , especially to young democracies such at Georgia , Ukraine , Afghanistan and Iraq .
The president said Americans have demonstrated that for two centuries a free people have been able to choose their own leaders .
He said the nation has flourished because of its commitment to trusting the wisdom of the people .
President Bush also called on voters to recall the sacrifices made by generations of Americans in uniform to preserve America 's way of life .
President Bush has dispatched the State Department 's new undersecretary for public diplomacy to help shore up America 's image in the Middle East .
Karen Hughes , a long-time advisor to the president , is slated to arrive in Egypt Sunday as part of what she says is a campaign to counter a terrorist message of hate with one of freedom and hope .
Sworn in earlier this month , she says one of her primary roles is putting a human face on American policy .
During her five-day trip , which includes stops in Saudi Arabia and Turkey , she will meet with senior government officials , students and religious leaders .
Her trip comes as numerous polls indicate a surge in anti-Americanism in Europe , the Middle East and Asia .
Australia has announced plans to buy 100 state-of-the-art U.S. jet fighters and double the size of its small submarine fleet to keep pace with an Asian military buildup .
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd launched the government 's defense white paper for the next 20 years onboard the HMAS Stuart in Sydney Harbor Saturday .
Mr. Rudd said the government will increase annual defense spending by three percent over the next decade .
Under the plan , Australia will buy 12 submarines fitted with cruise missiles , eight warships and 100 F-35 Lightning Joint Strike Fighter jets .
Opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull criticized the plan , saying the government has failed to explain how it will pay for the project .
The paper predicted that China will be the strongest Asian military power and said Beijing should assure its neighbors that it is not a threat to their sovereignty .
Japanese prosecutors have indicted a U.S. sailor in connection with the death of a Japanese woman .
William Oliver Reese , 21 , is accused of robbing and fatally beating 56-year-old Yoshie Sato on January 3 .
Japanese authorities say the attack occurred near the U.S. Navy base in Yokosuka , southwest of Tokyo .
Reese is stationed on the USS Kitty Hawk aircraft carrier .
The homicide has rekindled concerns about crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in Japan .
In 1995 , Japanese citizens protested against the U.S. military presence after the rape of a schoolgirl in Okinawa .
This latest incident comes during a crucial time as Washington and Tokyo discuss the reorganization of U.S. troops in Japan .
Roughly 50,000 American troops are stationed in Japan .
The U.S. military in Iraq says it is releasing more than 400 Iraqi detainees , including five women prisoners .
A military statement says the prisoners are being freed Thursday and Friday , after reviews of their cases determined there was no reason to keep holding them .
Iraqi and U.S. officials have stressed the move has nothing to do with American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped earlier this month .
Her kidnappers threatened to kill her by last Friday unless all Iraqi women detainees were released .
The deadline passed with no word on her fate .
Separately , the U.S. military says one American soldier was killed and another wounded in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad Wednesday .
A similar bomb blast north of the capital killed three Iraqi soldiers and wounded four others .
The U.S. government is working to bolster troubled banks at a time when officials worry the recession may get worse and hit financial companies even harder .
The U.S. Treasury department and other financial regulators say they will ease the repayment terms of hundreds of billions of dollars worth of aid they have given to banks and make it easier for banks to use government help in the future .
This week , regulators will check banks to see if they have the reserves needed to " provide the credit necessary to restore economic growth . "
Those banks that can not raise the needed capital from private sources could get additional government help .
After Monday 's announcement , the share prices of two major banks , Citigroup and the Bank of America , rose .
Those firms had seen shares plunge last week after investors grew worried that the banks could not cope with rising credit losses .
Church bells have begun tolling across Rome and throughout Italy , signaling the death of Pope John Paul II .
As news of his death spread , Roman Catholics around the world began mourning and offering prayers for the death of the spiritual leader of the 1.1 billion-member Roman Catholic Church .
In his native Poland , people in the pope 's hometown of Wadowice fell to their knees and wept at the end of a special Mass in the church where he worshipped as a boy .
Special masses are being held around the world , including Latin America , home to nearly half of the world 's Roman Catholics .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli troops killed two Palestinian militants after a gunbattle near the West Bank city of Bethlehem early Friday .
The Israeli military says two Islamic Jihad members were killed after they opened fire on Israeli special forces operating in the area .
Separately , Israel carried out an air strike on a metal workshop in Gaza City .
Palestinians say three people were wounded in that attack .
The incidents occurred hours after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Palestinian militant groups have agreed to suspend attacks on Israel .
Mr. Abbas says all Palestinian factions agreed to cease actions that may give others an excuse to retaliate .
Israel has carried out a nearly two-month-long Gaza offensive in an effort to stop cross-border rocket fire and to press for the release of a captured Israeli soldier .
Nearly 200 Palestinians , many of them militants , have been killed in the Israeli offensive .
The public memorial for the late United States Chief Justice William Rehnquist is under way at the Supreme Court building in Washington .
Mr. Rehnquist died of cancer Saturday at the age of 80 .
President Bush paid his respects to the late chief justice Tuesday , pausing for a moment of silence beside his flag-draped coffin in the Great Hall of the high court .
The public memorial continues until noon Wednesday , when he will be buried in a private ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery .
The conservative chief justice was first appointed to the nine-member court by President Nixon in 1972 .
President Reagan appointed him chief justice 14 years later , in 1986 .
U.S. Supreme Court justices are appointed for life-long terms .
President Bush has nominated federal appeals court judge John Roberts to be the next chief justice .
Senate confirmation hearings for Mr. Roberts are scheduled to begin Monday .
U.S. National Intelligence Director John Negroponte has singled out Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez for criticism during a hearing on homeland security .
Negroponte told a Senate committee Tuesday that Mr. Chavez is seeking closer military and economic ties with Iran and North Korea .
Negroponte also said Mr. Chavez is expected to deepen his relationship with Fidel Castro , president of communist Cuba and an outspoken critic of President Bush .
He added that Venezuela has recently scaled back its counternarcotics cooperation with the United States .
Negroponte also accused Mr. Chavez of spending millions of dollars on what he termed an extravagant foreign policy , at the expense of the Venezuelan people .
He said Mr. Chavez is investing considerable sums of money in politics in other Latin American countries .
Wall Street 's most famous stock index , the Dow Jones Industrial Average , set a record closing high on Thursday , ending above 12,000 for the first time .
However , the closing figure of 12,012 points was below the record level of 12,049 points reached during trading Wednesday .
The market was driven by investor optimism about corporate earnings after strong earnings reports from soft-drink giant Coca-Cola and the two largest U.S. providers of phone service , AT&T and Verizon .
Investors seemed to discount some new reports that indicated a weakening of the overall U.S. economy .
Both the broad market S&P 500 index and NASDAQ Composite Index also showed gains .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a measure of the share value of 30 top U.S. companies .
The State Department says it will ask Congress for $ 75 million in additional funding this year to promote democracy in Iran .
Officials say the money would be used for radio and television broadcasts to Iran and exchange programs for Iranian students .
They say Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice plans to request the funds when she appears before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Wednesday .
Rice is expected to face questions from the panel on the Bush administration 's policies on Iran , which is facing growing international pressure to abandon its controversial nuclear program .
Russian and French leaders Tuesday called on Tehran to stop all uranium enrichment .
China urged more diplomatic efforts to ease growing tension over the program , which the West says is aimed at developing a nuclear weapon .
Reports from Darfur say an air raid by the Sudanese army has killed at least 13 people and wounded others , including children .
Aid groups and rebel representatives say a Sudanese military plane bombed the village of Shegag Karo in North Darfur state on Sunday .
The Sudanese army has not commented .
Five years of fighting in Darfur between rebels , the Sudanese government and government-backed militias has killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced some 2.5 million others .
Witnesses say at least 15 people have been killed in two days of ongoing clashes between rival Islamist groups in central Somalia .
Clashes in the town of Wabho mainly involved fighters from the al-Shabab group and its rival the , Ahlu Sunna Wajama .
Residents say many civilians have been injured since the violence erupted Saturday .
Reports say the pro-government Ahlu Sunna Wajama reportedly attacked the Shabab-held village .
The two sides have fought repeatedly for control over the region .
" I SEE quite a number of rings on your tail , " said an Alderman to a Raccoon that he met in a zoological garden .
" Yes , " replied the Raccoon , " and I hear quite a number of tales on your ring . "
The Alderman , being of a sensitive , retiring disposition , shrank from further comparison , and , strolling to another part of the garden , stole the camel .
Indonesia has begun withdrawing government forces from Aceh province , the first major step in a new peace agreement between the government and separatist rebels to end a three-decade conflict .
Military officials say more than 1,200 soldiers shipped out Monday as part of the peace deal signed last week in Finland .
The agreement is intended to end 29 years of bloodshed between the Indonesian government and Free Aceh Movement rebels costing 15,000 lives .
The peace deal calls for Indonesia to pull out non-local army and police forces , and for rebels to demobilize .
Indonesia will grant amnesty to rebels , except those jailed for common crimes .
Aceh will be allowed to manage its own natural resources and keep 70 percent of revenues .
The province will also be allowed to have local political representation .
In Pakistan local officials say Pakistani troops have killed at least eight militants in clashes in the northwest region of the country .
The French news agency reports that two underground hideouts used by militants were also captured in Sunday 's operation in the restive Orakzai tribal district .
Pakistan 's military launched an offensive against Taliban insurgents in Orakzai in March , to target militants who are believed to have fled an earlier military offensive in South Waziristan .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez is asking the National Assembly to grant him special powers over the country 's electrical and telecommunications industries .
In a televised speech , Mr. Chavez said he would nationalize some electricial companies and the country 's largest telecommunications company , CANTV .
The leftist leader promised to take a more radical turn toward socialism after he was re-elected by a wide margin last month .
He will begin a second six-year term as president on Wednesday .
Mr. Chavez has said he hopes to merge all the political parties supporting him into one party .
He also wants to re-write the constitution .
Israeli health authorities say they have found the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu in dead chickens at a kindergarten petting zoo .
The Israeli Agriculture Ministry says 18 chickens were found dead Thursday at the kindergarten in the northern town of Binyamina .
The ministry says tests later confirmed they were infected with the H5N1 virus that is potentially lethal to humans .
Israeli authorities alerted hospitals in the area to look out for any children or adults with high fever , the most common symptom associated with the virus .
Authorities also are checking for other bird flu outbreaks within a 10-kilometer radius of the kindergarten .
Israel culled more than one million chickens and turkeys in March 2006 after the H5N1 virus infected poultry at several communal farms .
Migratory birds are thought to have spread the virus from Asia to the Middle East and Europe .
The Nigerian city of Maiduguri was quiet Sunday as police and military patrolled the day after 15 people were killed in rioting over cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
Muslims went on a rampage Saturday , attacking Christians and burning churches and shops owned by Christians before troops and police restored order .
On Sunday the secretary general of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs , Lateef Adegbite appealed to Christians not to retaliate , saying the riot was a misguided adventure by Muslims who acted against the tenets of Islam .
The Maiduguri riot was the latest outbreak of Muslim anger over cartoons originally published in a Danish newspaper last year .
Many Muslims believe depiction of the Prophet Muhammad is blasphemous .
The U.S. military says U.S.-led forces in Iraq have captured a prominent militant linked to al-Qaida ally Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
A military statement issued Saturday says Abdul Aziz Sa'dun Ahmed Hamduni -- also known as Abu Ahmed -- was detained on December 22 .
The military says Abu Ahmed was the deputy of Abu Talha , commander of a Zarqawi terrorist group in the northern city of Mosul .
Last week , the Iraqi government announced the capture of two other Abu Talha leaders in late December .
The developments come as Iraq prepares for elections on January 30 .
President Bush says the U.S. military will do its best to give every Iraqi citizen a chance to vote .
On Friday , the president confirmed reports he is sending a team to Iraq to assess the country 's security situation .
Pirates have hijacked a Greek-owned cargo vessel in the Gulf of Aden , off the coast of Somalia .
The Greek merchant marine ministry says pirates seized the MV Saldanha early Sunday , as it headed toward Slovenia with a load of coal .
The ministry says the ship was carrying 22 crew members , their nationalities unknown .
Somali pirates have received millions of dollars in ransom payments during a hijacking spree over the past year .
The attacks have continued despite increased naval patrols by the U.S. , European Union and other world powers .
Officials in Japan say the death toll from a typhoon that swept across the island-nation now stands at 75 .
Authorities say 15 people are still missing in the aftermath of Typhoon Tokage , which battered Japan earlier this week .
Rescue crews are searching through flooded towns and the rubble of collapsed homes .
Tokage has since moved out to sea east of Japan .
It is the latest in a record number of typhoons to hit Japan this year .
Japan says the number of casualties from Tokage was the worst from a typhoon since 1979 , when 115 people died or went missing from a similar storm .
Insurgents in Iraq killed at least 11 people Monday , including a U.S. soldier , in a series of bombings and shootings five days before a referendum on the country 's proposed new constitution .
The soldier died in a suicide bombing at a checkpoint outside Baghdad 's heavily fortified Green Zone .
Elsewhere in the capital , gunmen opened fire on a convoy carrying delegates from the Arab League .
There were reports of casualties among guards assigned to the convoy .
The attacks came as negotiators from Shi'ite and Kurdish factions that dominate parliament continued talks aimed at winning last-minute Sunni Arab backing for the draft constitution .
U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad was also attending the Baghdad talks .
Participants say the negotiators remain far apart on several key issues , including federalism provisions that Sunnis Arabs fear will give too much economic and political power to Iraq 's Shi'ites and Kurds .
Venezuela is blaming the United States for deteriorating relations between the two countries .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel responded Wednesday to charges by U.S. officials that Caracas is seeking closer military and economic ties with Iran and North Korea .
Rangel said any moves Caracas makes are responses to what he called Washington 's aggressions in the region .
A day earlier , U.S. National Intelligence Director John Negroponte criticized Venezuela for its growing relations with Iran , North Korea and Cuba .
Negroponte also accused Mr. Chavez of spending millions of dollars on what he called an extravagant foreign policy , at the expense of the Venezuelan people .
He said Mr. Chavez is investing considerable sums of money in politics in other Latin American countries .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says his country will produce nuclear fuel on an industrial scale soon .
Speaking in a provincial city Wednesday , Mr. Ahmadinejad did not specify when .
He said Tehran will not be intimidated by what he called bullying powers who want to deprive Iran of its nuclear ambitions .
In December , the U.N. Security Council passed economic sanctions against Iran for its controversial nuclear enrichment program .
Since then , Mr. Ahmadinejad has called the UN sanctions " invalid , " insisting that Iran will continue its program .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator said Tehran would begin working on installing 3,000 uranium-enriching centrifuges at a plant in Natanz .
The U.S. and its Western allies believe Iran is developing nuclear technology for weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
Producing nuclear fuel that could be used in a power plant would be another step in mastering the nuclear fuel cycle .
A wave of bomb attacks across Iraq killed at least 22 people Sunday .
Two explosions near a Shi'ite Muslim mosque in Baghdad killed 15 people and wounded 60 others .
Many of the casualties were caused by a suicide attacker who drove into a crowd of people helping victims of the first bomb , then detonated his vehicle .
A separate roadside bomb blast in eastern Baghdad Sunday killed an American soldier .
To the north , in Tikrit , two suicide bombers killed six people , including four policemen , outside a police academy .
In other developments , Pakistani officials say kidnappers have released a Pakistani embassy employee who was abducted earlier this month in Baghdad .
And , Iraq 's political leaders are continuing efforts to form a government .
Negotiations among major groups have yet to yield a Cabinet , nearly three months after the country 's historic elections , on January 30 .
Iran 's state-run television says President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has named a new head of the country 's Supreme National Security Council , the agency that oversees Iran 's nuclear policy .
The new nuclear chief , Ali Larijani , has served as an aide to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and is known as a hardline conservative .
He is also a former head of Iranian state radio and television .
Mr. Larijani 's appointment comes as Iran faces intense pressure to stop its nuclear activities or face the possibility of international sanctions .
Some observers are concerned that he will take a tougher stance on Iran 's nuclear ambitions Iran resumed uranium conversion last week after rejecting a European Union proposal offering economic and political incentives in exchange for suspending nuclear fuel processing .
Iran insists its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes .
U.S. media reports say the United States is investigating possible Iranian involvement in a recent attack in the Iraqi city of Karbala , in which five American soldiers were killed .
The reports in the New York Times and CNN television quote unnamed U.S. officials as saying the Defense Department is trying to determine whether Iranians or Iranian-trained operatives carried out the attack on a U.S. military compound last Saturday .
The U.S. military has said the attack was well coordinated , with assailants dressed in U.S. military-style uniforms and driving vehicles similar to those used by U.S. troops .
The White House said Wednesday that it would not comment on what it called " speculation " about Iranian involvement in the Karbala attack .
But spokesman Tony Snow repeated U.S. warnings to respond " forcefully " to anyone trying to kill U.S. troops in Iraq or destabilize the country .
Iran 's new hard-line nuclear negotiator says Tehran will offer new proposals in its standoff with the West over its nuclear program .
Ali Larijani made the announcement Friday in Vienna , after a meeting with International Atomic Energy Agency , IAEA , chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
Mr. Larijani told a news conference that Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will need about a month to lay out new proposals .
He said Tehran has not ruled out further talks with the European Union , even though the EU has broken off the talks to protest Iran 's resumption of nuclear fuel work that could lead to atomic weapons .
Mr. Larijani said Iran has too much power in its region to worry about U.S. and European threats to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council .
Details of Mr. Larijani 's talks with the IAEA were not immediately known .
Mehmet Ali Talat holding an olive branch after voting Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat has won Sunday presidential election in the breakaway enclave .
With all the votes counted , Mr. Talat had more than 55 percent of the vote , while his nearest rival won just under 23 percent .
Nine candidates were running .
Mr. Talat will replace 81-year-old Rauf Denktash , who has led the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state for decades and did not seek re-election .
When the vote result was announced , Mr. Talat immediately called for new reunification talks with Greek Cypriots .
Cyprus has been divided between Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities since 1974 .
Turkish Cypriots voted last year in favor of a U.N. reunification plan , but Greek Cypriots rejected it .
President Bush has called for civility in the congressional debate over immigration reform , saying the United States does not have to choose between being a compassionate society and a society of law .
He spoke Friday at the National Catholic Prayer Breakfast in Washington , D.C. Mr. Bush said the immigration system should not force people into the shadows of society or leave them prey to criminals .
The Senate last week began a contentious debate over immigration reform , one that looks as though it will not be finished before Congress breaks for a two-week recess , Friday .
Mr. Bush also referred to abortion , something both he and the Catholic Church oppose .
He drew applause from his audience when he said God 's hope shines on every child , born and unborn .
He added the United States is working to expand the protections of unborn children .
Russia and France have agreed on a six-point plan for a permanent truce in Georgia .
The plan , which awaits Georgian approval , includes provisions for what officials are calling an " international discussion " on the future status of South Ossetia and Abkhazia - the two pro-Russian breakaway regions of northern Georgia .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev said the plan also includes : provisions for the renunciation of force by all parties , a halt to military action , unhindered access to humanitarian aid , the return of Georgian forces to their pre-conflict positions , and the continued presence of Russian peacekeepers in the two rebellious territories .
The leaders of Chad and Sudan have signed a peace accord , pledging to deny refuge to each other 's rebel groups .
Presidents Omar al-Bashir of Sudan and Idriss Deby of Chad reached the agreement Wednesday at a summit hosted by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in Tripoli .
Their accord calls for Sudan and Chad to work toward normal relations , and to not use their territories to support harmful activity against each other .
Chad has accused Sudan of harboring rebels opposed to Mr. Deby , while Sudan has said that Chad is backing rebels fighting Sudanese government forces in war-torn Darfur .
The accord calls for the creation of an African force to preserve security on the Chad-Sudan border .
Which countries will supply troops and finance the force has not been determined .
President Bush has nominated the acting administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to be its new head .
At the White House Friday , the president asked Congress to promptly approve Steve Johnson for the position .
Mr. Johnson is a professional scientist and a career EPA employee .
Mr. Bush also asked Congress to get his proposed " Clear Skies " legislation to his desk for signing this year .
He called the proposal , which aims to dramatically reduce power plant emissions , a " common sense , pro-environment and pro-jobs " initiative .
However , environmental groups have criticized the proposed legislation , saying it would actually weaken existing air pollution regulations , known as the " Clean Air Act . "
The Olympic Flame rode in style Saturday in a Ferrari as the torch continued its trek toward Turin for the Winter Games .
Luca Badoer , the test driver for Ferrari 's Formula One team , received the flame from a torchbearer and drove it slowly through the company 's headquarters in a red Ferrari F-430 Spider .
From Maranello , the torch moved towards Reggio Emilia and Parma , where the day 's travel ended .
The torch moves east toward Venice Sunday and will continue traveling through Italy until it ignites the Olympic Cauldron at the Opening Ceremonies February 10th in Turin .
Rivalry between French and Italian interests in Tunisia culminated in a French invasion in 1881 and the creation of a protectorate .
Agitation for independence in the decades following World War I was finally successful in getting the French to recognize Tunisia as an independent state in 1956 .
The country 's first president , Habib BOURGUIBA , established a strict one-party state .
He dominated the country for 31 years , repressing Islamic fundamentalism and establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation .
In November 1987 , BOURGUIBA was removed from office and replaced by Zine el Abidine BEN ALI in a bloodless coup .
Street protests that began in Tunis in December 2010 over high unemployment , corruption , widespread poverty , and high food prices escalated in January 2011 , culminating in rioting that led to hundreds of deaths .
On 14 January 2011 , the same day BEN ALI dismissed the government , he fled the country , and by late January 2011 , Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI announced the formation of a " national unity government " with the head of the Chamber of Deputies , Fouad M'BAZAA , as the interim president .
German police have conducted a series of raids against individuals suspected of gathering donations to finance radical Islamic activities abroad .
Officials say police made no arrests , but raided 33 apartments and four businesses in Wednesday 's operation , which took place primarily in the southern state of Bavaria .
They said officers seized computers and propaganda materials during the raids .
Officials said the operation targeted 24 people , including citizens of Lebanon , Iraq , Egypt , Jordan and Tunisia .
Tuesday , an Italian court charged two suspected Islamic militants with terrorism , while police in Spain arrested four Moroccans allegedly linked to last year 's deadly Madrid train bombings .
Also Tuesday , British authorities released an Egyptian terror suspect held for more than three years without charge , citing a lack of evidence .
The U.S. space agency NASA says its Phoenix probe has touched the surface of the planet Mars with its robot arm .
Officials said Sunday that operators were testing the arm , which will be used to scoop up samples of Martian soil and ice for testing in the lander 's onboard laboratory .
NASA released a photograph of the disturbed soil where the arm touched the ground , leaving behind a footprint-shaped impression .
A camera attached to the arm also took photographs of the area beneath the lander .
The Phoenix probe arrived on Mars a week ago .
It is on a three-month mission to analyze samples of Martian soil and subsurface ice , to study the history of water on Mars and to determine whether the planet could support life .
Phoenix was launched last August and traveled 679 million kilometers to reach Mars .
President Bush welcomes Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo to the White House Thursday for talks expected to focus on the situations in Sudan and Ivory Coast .
Mr. Obasanjo is current chairman of the African Union , which has been working to end internal fighting in both countries and the humanitarian crisis in Sudan 's Darfur region where 1.6 million people have been driven from their homes .
The United Nations says the war between rebels and pro-government forces in Darfur has also killed some 70,000 people .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mr. Obasanjo plan to discuss the A.U. role in regional defense and security issues .
It says the two leaders will also review U.S.-Nigerian relations and opportunities for trade and investment .
Later in the day , Mr. Obasanjo will meet with U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell .
After almost four decades under US administration as the easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands , the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a Compact of Free Association .
Compensation claims continue as a result of US nuclear testing on some of the atolls between 1947 and 1962 .
The Marshall Islands hosts the US Army Kwajalein Atoll ( USAKA ) Reagan Missile Test Site , a key installation in the US missile defense network .
Indian police say the lone surviving gunman in the deadly Mumbai attacks will be formally charged in the case on Wednesday .
Police say Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab will be charged with " waging war " in the November attacks .
Authorities say several other suspects will also be charged for allegedly helping to plan the assault .
The Mumbai attacks were carried out over a three-day period , killing more than 170 people .
The attacks have raised tensions between India and neighboring Pakistan , both nuclear-armed countries that have fought three wars .
India has blamed the attacks on a Pakistan-based militant group , Lashkar-e-Taiba and has accused Pakistan of not doing enough to bring those responsible to justice .
Pakistan has admitted that the Mumbai attacks were partly planned in Pakistan .
But Pakistan denies India 's charge that elements in Pakistan 's intelligence services may have been involved .
Thousands of Iranians have gathered outside the former U.S. Embassy in Tehran to commemorate the 27th anniversary of the seizure of the building by Islamic radicals .
The demonstrators , mostly students , carried banners and shouted slogans proclaiming " Death to America " and Death to Israel . "
Islamic radicals stormed the U.S. Embassy on November fourth , 1979 , and held American diplomats for 444 days .
The takeover came shortly after the Islamic Revolution led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini that toppled the Shah of Iran .
The United States and other Western nations are trying to persuade the U.N. Security Council to impose sanctions on Iran because of its nuclear program .
The West says Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is meant to provide electricity .
The U.S. Defense Department says 52 detainees at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , are on a hunger strike to protest their continued detention .
In a statement Thursday , Pentagon officials said the hunger strike began three days ago and appears to be temporary .
The Pentagon says some detainees have abandoned the strike .
But , the Los Angeles Times reported Thursday that two prisoners recently released from the facility say there are 180 prisoners on hunger strike , demanding better conditions and more information on their cases .
Many of the some-500 terrorism suspects at Guantanamo have been held for more than two years without charge .
This week , the Pentagon said it was resuming a series of military trials for some prisoners .
A bomb exploded Tuesday near a Kurdish party 's office in northern Iraq , killing at least three Iraqi soldiers .
Reports from Mosul said a car bomb went off close to the office of the Kurdistan Democratic Party .
No one claimed responsibility for the attack , which occurred in a city considered one of the last urban strongholds of al-Qaida in Iraq .
In central Baghdad Tuesday , a bomb blast struck a convoy carrying a senior Iraqi official .
Major General Ahmed al-Attiya , who heads the nation 's customs agency , escaped injury , but three of his security guards were wounded .
Violence has been on the rise in the days leading up to provincial elections this Saturday .
The Russian justice ministry says it will sell off part of oil giant Yukos in order to cover the company 's outstanding back taxes .
Ministry officials said Tuesday the value of a Yukos subsidiary Yuganskneftegaz has been established so the government can prepare for the sale .
Officials say Yukos has been taking too much time in paying its back taxes .
A Russian court ruled Monday the embattled company must pay nearly all of the $ 1.34 billion in fines connected to its 2001 tax bill .
Yukos is already struggling to pay $ 3.4 billion in taxes and fines for 2000 , and $ 2.7 billion in taxes for 2001 .
Government critics charge the actions against Yukos are in retaliation for support the firm 's former chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave to the political opposition .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say three policemen have been killed and at least 11 people were wounded in two separate incidents Thursday .
The authorities say the police officers died when suspected Islamic militants ambushed their patrol north of Jammu .
Two policemen are missing .
In the town of Awantipora , north of Srinagar , suspected militants hurled a grenade at a busy intersection , wounding at least 11 pedestrians .
Police sealed-off the area and are looking for the attackers .
Militant separatists continue their attacks against government targets in Kashmir , saying they oppose the ongoing peace process between India and Pakistan .
Kashmiri militants have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
Police in Sweden say one person was killed and two others wounded in two almost simultaneous explosions in central Stockholm Saturday .
The police say the first blast occurred in a car near a busy shopping street and left two people hurt .
Shortly afterward , a second explosion was heard on the same street , and police later found one person dead at the scene .
A police spokeswoman says it is unclear what caused the blasts and if they are linked .
The Associated Press quotes a rescue services spokesman as saying the car that exploded first contained gas canisters .
No other details were immediately available .
A series of attacks by suspected Taleban insurgents has left eleven Afghans dead and an election candidate seriously wounded .
Three policemen guarding a convoy transporting supplies to U.S. bases were killed late Saturday during an ambush in the southern province Zabul .
Another policeman was killed and two were wounded early Sunday in an attack on a police checkpoint on the main highway linking the southern city of Kandahar with Kabul .
Also Sunday , in the southern Helmand province , suspected rebels attacked a district police chief , killing him , three of his bodyguards and his son .
Two militants were also killed when the police returned fire .
Hours later , in the same province , a bomb blast seriously wounded a candidate in the September 18 parliamentary elections .
Israel has moved a step closer to the creation of a moderate , new government .
An ambitious plan to draw Israel 's final borders by 2010 is topping the agenda .
Interim Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's centrist Kadima Party and the Dovish Labor party have signed a coalition agreement .
It includes a pledge to withdraw from large parts of the West Bank over the next four years .
Under Mr. Olmert 's plan , about 70,000 Jewish settlers would be removed from their homes .
At the same time , Israel would annex big West Bank settlement blocs .
Mr. Olmert says he would prefer to do this as part of an agreement with the Palestinians .
But he believes that is impossible because the Islamic militant group Hamas , which seeks Israel 's destruction , now heads the Palestinian Authority .
Mr. Olmert says if there is no Palestinian peace partner , Israel will withdraw unilaterally .
" We will have to act on the basis of a broad national consensus in Israel and work towards fixing of the permanent border lines even without an agreement . "
Former Palestinian legislator Sabri Saddam says expanding settlements and annexing land will only bring more conflict .
" The unilateral withdrawal is not a solution at all but rather a false disengagement , " he said .
" What we 're looking for is a final , just and fair peace . "
In addition to Palestinian opposition , Mr. Olmert faces another obstacle to implementing the pullout plan .
His coalition with Labor does not give him a majority in the 120-member Knesset or parliament .
Therefore , he will have to bring the ultra-Orthodox Shas party into the coalition , and Shas opposes the pullout plan .
Analysts say the government could collapse in two or three years , when the time comes to remove tens of thousands settlers from their homes .
Burmese state media say security forces have seized drugs , drug-making equipment and weapons near Burma 's border with China , where troops recently targeted rebel militias .
Media reports say troops found tens of thousands of stimulant narcotic pills along with weapons during a raid this week in Kokang , a mainly ethnic-Chinese region in Burma 's northeastern Shan state .
The region is known for drug smuggling .
Burma launched an offensive against the rebel Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army last month , forcing more than 30,000 people to leave their homes and cross into China 's southern Yunnan province .
Many Burmese refugees have since returned home .
Burma has been pressuring ethnic militia members to give up their arms and become border guards , ahead of the country 's national elections set for next year , the first in nearly two decades .
The United Nations ' new envoy to Somalia has held his first talks with President Abdullah Yusuf and other officials in Mogadishu .
Upon arriving in the capital , Ahmedou Ould Abdallah called the humanitarian and human rights situation in Somalia " the worst on the continent . "
Abdallah , a Mauritanian diplomat , was appointed to the post September 12 .
The envoy 's meeting with top leaders came as two explosions ripped through Mogadishu 's Bakara market , a site of frequent attacks in recent months .
Both explosions went off as government forces drove through the area .
Witnesses say at least five police officers were wounded in one of the attacks .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has sent new year 's greetings to 80-year old Vassily Kononov , a Soviet partisan in World War II who was convicted in Latvia of war crimes .
Mr. Putin said heroes should not be slandered .
Mr. Kononov was convicted last year of murdering Latvian civilians in 1944 in a trial that angered many Russians , who view him as a legitimate war hero .
Mr. Putin 's letter saluted Mr. Kononov 's contribution to the defeat of the Nazis in World War II , noting that 2005 will mark the 60th anniversary of the end of the war .
Relations between Russia and its Baltic neighbor have been strained in recent years , in part because Latvia decided to join the NATO alliance .
We 're sorry .
You have reached an imaginary number .
Please rotate your phone 90 degrees and try again .
Russia has called on Iran to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency and clear up remaining questions about its nuclear program .
The Russian foreign ministry made the comments in a statement Saturday evening after the U.N. nuclear agency 's board found that Iran failed to comply with international nuclear safeguard agreements , but did not vote to refer the matter to the U.N. Security Council .
Russia , which is helping Iran build a nuclear power plant , was one of 12 nations that abstained from voting on Saturday 's IAEA resolution .
Reports from southern China 's Guangdong province say armed police have sealed off a village after opening fire on a group of protesters and killing at least two people this week .
Witnesses say police fired into a crowd late Tuesday in Dongzhou village , where at least 1,000 people were protesting inadequate compensation for land taken for the construction of a power plant .
Local residents are quoted by Reuters and the French News agency as saying Chinese authorities have surrounded the village and are not allowing them to leave .
The deputy Asia Director for Amnesty International Catherine Baber has described the reports from Guangdong as " chilling , " and called for an immediate independent investigation .
The Chinese government has not commented on the matter .
At least 20 people in Baghdad have been killed in a series of attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Iraqi authorities said two bombs exploded minutes apart Tuesday at the main Shurja market in central Baghdad , killing 10 and injuring 69 others .
The latest violence underscores the security crisis facing Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki as he attempts to halt what many analysts see as a slide towards civil war .
Much of the violence has been blamed on sectarian militias .
About 6,000 additional Iraqi troops and 3,500 U.S. troops are being deployed in the Iraqi capital to help stem the violence .
In another development , the U.S. military says the Fourth Iraqi Army division has officially assumed the lead in its area of responsibility from the 101st U.S. Airborne division .
The area includes the cities of Kirkuk and Tikrit .
A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls , Kiribati has few natural resources and is one of the least developed Pacific Islands .
Commercially viable phosphate deposits were exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in 1979 .
Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and exports .
The economy has fluctuated widely in recent years .
Economic development is constrained by a shortage of skilled workers , weak infrastructure , and remoteness from international markets .
Tourism provides more than one-fifth of GDP .
Private sector initiatives and a financial sector are in the early stages of development .
Foreign financial aid from the EU , UK , US , Japan , Australia , New Zealand , Canada , UN agencies , and Taiwan accounts for 20-25 % of GDP .
Remittances from seamen on merchant ships abroad account for more than $ 5 million each year .
Kiribati receives around $ 15 million annually for the government budget from an Australian trust fund .
The United Nations has once again urged the kidnappers of one of its officials to make direct contact and called for his immediate release .
American citizen John Solecki , the head of the U.N. refugee agency ( UNHCR ) in Quetta , Pakistan , was abducted two weeks ago , on February 2 , in southwestern Baluchistan province .
A previously unknown group , the Baluchistan Liberation United Front , is threatening to kill Solecki if Pakistan 's government does not release Baluch prisoners .
On Monday , the group extended a 72-hour deadline it had given for its demands to be met .
In a statement , the United Nations appealed for his immediate and safe release and asked for the kidnappers to initiate contact with U.N. officials .
Last week , a local news agency in Pakistan broadcast what appeared to be a video of Solecki pleading for his release .
Greenland , the world 's largest island , is about 81 % ice capped .
Vikings reached the island in the 10th century from Iceland ; Danish colonization began in the 18th century , and Greenland was made an integral part of Denmark in 1953 .
It joined the European Community ( now the EU ) with Denmark in 1973 but withdrew in 1985 over a dispute centered on stringent fishing quotas .
Greenland was granted self-government in 1979 by the Danish parliament ; the law went into effect the following year .
Greenland voted in favor of increased self-rule in November 2008 and acquired greater responsibility for internal affairs in June 2009 .
Denmark , however , continues to exercise control of Greenland 's foreign affairs , security , and financial policy in consultation with Greenland 's Home Rule Government .
Belarus security forces say they have uncovered a plot to seize control of the government on the day of the March 19 presidential elections .
Belarus security ( KGB ) chief Stepan Sukhorenko says officials found fake exit polls from an unregistered non-governmental organization to be released by the opposition election day .
He says the polls showed opposition candidate Alexander Milinkevich beating incumbent President Alexander Lukashenko by approximately 54 percent to 41 percent .
Sukhorenko says the opposition planned to detonate explosives in a crowd of their own supporters as they protested what the opposition would insist were fraudulent official election results .
Mr. Lukashenko is running for a third term .
The United States has branded him Europe 's last dictator for suppressing human rights and free speech .
Milinkevich says he has planned a rally Thursday in Minsk without the permission of authorities .
The Iranian foreign minister says the three American hikers held in Iran after crossing the border with Iraq will stand trial .
Manouchehr Mottaki did not say when the proceedings would begin during a news conference Monday in Tehran .
He said the Americans entered Iran with " suspicious aims . "
Iran has accused them of espionage .
The three U.S. citizens were detained on July 31 for entering Iran illegally , after they apparently strayed across the border while on a hike in northern Iraq .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said Washington believes there is no evidence to support any charge against the hikers .
She has appealed to Iranian authorities to exercise compassion and free the trio .
Iran and the United States have no diplomatic relations , and are embroiled in a dispute over Iran 's nuclear program .
Crude oil prices continued their surge Thursday hitting a new record high of nearly $ 106 a barrel .
Prices for crude for future delivery went as high as $ 105.97 before easing slightly .
The latest record high for oil follows another record low for the dollar compared to the euro .
Dollar-priced raw materials like oil gain from the weak greenback because the fall in the dollar makes them cheaper for buyers using other , stronger currencies .
The price spike is also related to Wednesday 's decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to hold oil production steady rather than raise output as requested by Washington .
Some oil-importing nations say more oil would help ease prices , but OPEC officials say the markets are well-supplied with crude .
Burma is rejecting a U.S. human rights report that condemns the military-run country 's rights record .
The official New Light of Myanmar quoted Burma 's Foreign Ministry Saturday as saying that the report carries a number of unfounded and unsubstantiated allegations of human rights violations that are aimed at smearing the country 's image .
On Tuesday , the U.S. State Department released its Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2006 .
In it , Washington categorized Burma , as well as countries including North Korea , China and Russia , as some of the world 's worst human rights offenders .
The report accused Burma of using executions , rape , torture , random detentions , and forced relocation of entire villages , particularly of ethnic minorities , to maintain its grip on power .
The U.S report also says that surveillance of political activists continues in Burma and notes that 1,100 political prisoners remain behind bars .
The Russian gas monopoly Gazprom has approved a plan to bid for a main production unit of the troubled giant oil firm Yukos .
The company 's board of directors Wednesday also approved obtaining outside financing for the December 19 bidding on the unit , Yuganskneftegaz .
Government officials say they want to recover billions of dollars Yukos owes in back taxes .
Bids are to start at $ 8.6 billion , far below what independent assessors say the unit is worth .
The Interfax news agency quotes a source close to Yukos saying authorities questioned a member of the firm 's legal department for eight hours Tuesday in a probe of financial wrongdoing .
The report says the interrogation ended only after the man lost consciousness .
Russian officials have pledged to fight corporate corruption and today gave mobile phone operator VimpelCom a tax bill for nearly $ 160 million for 2000 .
Syrian officials say they are willing to cooperate with a U.N. investigation into the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The French Press Agency , AFP and Reuters quote an unnamed Syrian official as making that statement Friday , one day after a top U.N. official said Damascus has ignored requests to help with the probe .
Undersecretary-General for Political Affairs Ibrahim Gambari said Damascus has not responded to requests for documents and for interviews with witnesses .
The U.N. Security Council later urged all countries - especially those who it said have " yet to respond adequately " - to cooperate fully .
Friday 's news reports say the head of the probe , German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , will meet shortly with a Syrian representative .
Many in Lebanon have accused Syria of being behind Mr. Hariri 's February 14 assassination - a charge Damascus denies .
St. Nicholas is the main Claus .
His wife is a relative Claus .
His children are dependent Clauses .
Their Dutch uncle is a restrictive Claus .
As a group , they 're all renoun Clauses .
Santa 's elves are subordinate Clauses .
U.S. military officials say wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi recently escaped capture by U.S. troops in Iraq , but he left behind several key pieces of intelligence .
A covert military unit tasked with finding the leader of Iraq 's insurgency says Zarqawi jumped from a moving vehicle near a checkpoint on February 20 , not far from the western city of Ramadi .
Troops gave chase and stopped the vehicle , which they say contained the terrorist leader 's laptop computer and about $ 100,000 in euros .
At least one Zarqawi associate was arrested .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters in Washington Tuesday that Zarqawi 's network may be small , but is very lethal and has carried out a large number of attacks .
The United States is offering a $ 25 million reward for Zarqawi 's capture .
Syria says it has arrested kidnappers suspected of killing a Kurdish Muslim cleric , as thousands of Kurds gathered to mourn his death .
An unnamed official in the Interior Ministry told Syrian state media Wednesday that a criminal gang was believed to have kidnapped Sheikh Mohammad Maashouq al-Khaznawi three weeks ago .
Officials from the Yekiti Kurdish Party say hospital officials in northeastern Syria found signs of torture on the cleric 's body , after it was recovered .
Meanwhile , thousands gathered in the northeastern town of Kameshli for a funeral for the sheikh , who disappeared after leaving the Islamic Studies Center in Damascus .
The incident sparked a march last month by Kurds demanding to know Mr. al-Khaznawi 's whereabouts .
Kurdish leaders accused Syrian officials of holding the sheikh .
Authorities denied the charge .
Officials in India say a blast on a packed train that killed at least 12 people and left dozens wounded was apparently caused by a bomb .
The explosion occurred Thursday near the town of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh state .
The train was traveling from the eastern city of Patna to New Delhi at the time of the explosion .
Local news media reported Friday that bomb experts found traces of the explosive substance RDX ( also known as Hexogen ) in the train .
A local official told the French News Agency the blast came from an unclaimed suitcase near a toilet .
RDX , which forms the base of a number of common military explosives , has been used by Islamic militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , as well as by separatist rebels in the troubled northeast region , who frequently target trains .
A top Hamas leader says the Palestinian militant group is willing to discuss options for statehood in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as well as a truce with Israel .
Hassan Youssef , the top Hamas official in the West Bank , is quoted by news agencies as saying the group could accept a long-term truce and the creation of an independent Palestinian state within the 1967 borders , a reference to lands Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War .
The comments may indicate a shift in Hamas ' long-standing policy of destroying Israel and replacing it with a Palestinian state .
Meanwhile , earlier Friday , Israeli troops shot dead a member of the Islamic Jihad militant group in the West Bank .
Israeli army officials say the militant was carrying a weapon when he was shot .
The trial of Saddam Hussein and seven co-defendants has resumed in Baghdad after a five-day break .
The prosecution is presenting experts Monday , in an effort to confirm signatures of the former Iraqi leader and his co-defendants on documents related to the crackdown on Shi'ites in the 1980s .
The chief judge , Raouf Abdel Rahman , ruled last Wednesday that Saddam 's handwriting was authentic on documents related to the incident .
The ousted Iraqi dictator and the seven co-defendants are on trial for the 1982 killing of more than 140 Iraqi Shi'ites in the village of Dujail .
The U.S. military says it expects an increase in insurgent attacks in Iraq as its newly elected government forms and final results from last month 's general elections are released .
Brigadier-General Don Alston says insurgents will use Iraq 's transition to a new government as an opportunity to try to derail the democratic process .
He spoke Thursday as Iraq was in a relative period of calm during the Muslim holiday of Eid Al-Adha .
Meanwhile , lawyers for former Iraqi deputy prime minister Tareq Aziz say he is in poor health and may have just weeks to live .
They say Aziz , one of the most recognizable figures of Saddam Hussein 's former regime , is suffering from numerous ailments .
But U.S. officials say Aziz has suffered no serious deterioration while he has been in U.S. custody .
The European Union 's Court of Human Rights has fined Russia for banning homosexual parades in Moscow .
The Strasbourg-based court ruled Thursday that gay rights organizer Nikolai Alexeyev was discriminated against based on sexual orientation .
It ordered Russia to pay more than $ 41,000 in damages and court costs to Alexeyev .
Alexeyev told the court he and other organizers were denied permission to hold gay pride marches in 2006 , 2007 and 2008 .
The European rights court said the risk of a disturbance stemming from a demonstration was not sufficient to justify banning the parade .
Former Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov once described gay parades as " satanic . "
He was fired last month by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev .
Pakistan says the commander of its paramilitary Frontier Corps was wounded when his helicopter came under rocket attack in troubled Baluchistan province Thursday .
Officials say Major-General Shujaat Zamir Dar was on an inspection flight when he was hit in the leg by shrapnel from the exploding rocket .
The helicopter 's pilot flew the aircraft safely back to its base .
Wednesday , rebels fired eight rockets during a visit to southwestern Pakistan by President Pervez Musharraf .
No one was injured in the attack , which was claimed by the separatist Baluchistan Liberation Army .
President Musharraf was laying the foundation for a military garrison outside the town of Kohlu , ( 300 kilometers ) east of the provincial capital , Quetta .
Baluch rebels have been fighting a low-level insurgency against Pakistan 's central government for years .
They want more jobs and higher royalties from Islamabad in return for their region 's natural resources .
Iranian media report that Iran 's supreme leader has told President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to dismiss his chosen top deputy , after the selection angered conservative Iranians .
Semi-official news agencies in Iran quote the deputy speaker of the parliament Mohammad Hassan Aboutorabi-Fard as saying Ayatollah Ali Khamenei sent Mr. Ahmadinejad a letter calling for the removal of the first vice president .
Esfandiar Rahim Mashaie has been sharply criticized for stating last year that Iran is a friend of all people in the world , including Israelis .
Iran does not recognize Israel .
To this point , Mr. Ahmadinejad has refused to back down on his selection of Mashaie , despite pressure to do so .
Leading conservative Iranian cleric Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami also has called on Mr. Ahmadinejad to reconsider Mashaie 's appointment , saying it defies the president 's constituency .
Mashaie and Ahmadinejad have family ties .
Mashaie 's daughter is married to Mr. Ahmadinejad 's son .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Iran is a very dangerous state with dangerous policies .
In a television interview on CNBC 's Closing Bell Friday , Rice said while Washington is committed to a diplomatic solution , Iran must know " there are coercive elements " to U.S. policy as well .
She said that with Iran becoming " increasingly dangerous , " the United States and its allies are discussing new sanctions to further curb Tehran 's access to the international financial system .
She said that despite two U.N. Chapter 7 resolutions - the U.N. 's most serious Security Council resolution - Iran continues to pursue technologies that could lead to a nuclear weapon .
When asked if the United States should consider military retaliation , Rice said President Bush " is never going to take his options off the table . "
Tehran denies it is trying to build a nuclear weapon .
Argentine media is reporting that a Cuban dissident has sought refuge at the Argentine embassy in Havana .
The Argentine newspaper La Nacion reported Thursday renowned brain surgeon Hilda Molina and her 84-year-old mother had entered the embassy to request political asylum .
Dr. Molina has been petitioning the Cuban government to allow her to travel to Argentina to see her son , who lives in exile there .
Earlier this month , Argentine President Nestor Kirchner wrote to his Cuban counterpart , Fidel Castro , asking him to allow Dr. Molina to visit Argentina .
Mr. Castro responded that Dr. Molina 's family should visit her in Cuba .
Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia has asked the United States for help in stopping Israel from expanding its largest West Bank settlement .
In Ramallah Thursday , Mr. Qureia asked visiting envoys Elliott Abrams and David Welch for a " clear and firm " U.S. position on Israeli plans to build 3,500 new homes in the Maale Adumim settlement near Jerusalem .
The Israeli plan appears to clash with the U.S.-backed " road map " peace blueprint , which calls for a halt to settlement expansion on all Palestinian land captured by Israel in the 1967 war .
Analysts say the latest expansion is aimed at linking Maale Adumim to greater Jerusalem , which Israel claims as its eternal capital .
Palestinians want Arab East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state .
Wednesday , the two U.S. diplomats asked Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to clarify the expansion plans .
European Union Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso is expected in Moscow Thursday to prepare for next month 's summit between Russian President Vladimir Putin and EU leaders .
The EU Commission says Mr. Barroso 's talks with President Putin aim at finding ways to improve cooperation with Russia .
The summit , on May 10 , will take place one day after ceremonies in Moscow commemorating the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe .
The two sides are trying to create four major areas of cooperation : the economy ; freedom , security and justice ; external security ; and research , education and culture .
However , officials say there remain areas of disagreement , including on the introduction of a more liberal visa policy between the EU and Russia .
The international press freedom watchdog group , Reporters Without Borders , is condemning what it calls a " climate of violence " against the media in Afghanistan .
In an open letter to President Hamid Karzai Thursday , the group expressed concern about recent violence and disciplinary actions against media outlets in the country .
The organization cited an incident Wednesday in which media representatives were barred from parliamentary proceedings after a legislator complained of video that showed her asleep during debates aired on national television .
The letter also addresses alleged acts of violence against reporters and the government 's detention of a radio journalist for more than seven months without evidence .
A spokesman for the Afghan embassy in Washington , Ashraf Haidari , told VOA Thursday that the country 's constitution guarantees freedom of expression .
He said the growth of private radio stations and hundreds of newspapers illustrates the Afghan government is protecting the media .
Shi'ite negotiators in Iraq have announced a compromise deal that will place 25 more Sunnis on the pan-Iraqi committee drafting a new constitution .
Thursday 's agreement breaks weeks of deadlock over the size and conditions of Sunni participation on the drafting committee .
Under the deal , 15 Sunnis will join two others already on the committee .
The remaining 10 Sunnis will serve as advisors .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani , a Sunni Kurd , last week backed Sunni Arab demands for 25 seats on the panel .
But Prime Minister Ibrahim Jaafari and fellow Shi'ites argued that any more than 15 Sunni seats would create an imbalance on the 55-member panel .
Both the United States and the European Union have backed calls for greater Sunni participation on the committee , which has four months to write a permanent constitution before a referendum set for October .
Peru 's President has urged the use of the military to destroy jungle factories that produce cocaine .
Alan Garcia said Monday in Lima that Peru should use its military attack aircraft to bomb and machine-gun coca processing facilities and the airports used to transport drugs .
Mr. Garcia announced Sunday that Peru would resume the destruction of coca crops in Peru 's Amazon region .
Officials had previously agreed to allow farmers to produce coca , a key raw material in the production of cocaine .
A United Nations report released last year said Peru is the world 's second largest cocaine producer behind Colombia .
According to the report , Peru produces some 30 percent of the world 's cocaine .
Burma has opened a three-day World Buddhist Summit , which has been marred by the pullout of its main sponsor .
Burmese Prime Minister General Soe Win joined monks , officials and other delegates from several countries at Thursday 's opening ceremony in Rangoon .
Chinese state-run media report Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and Lao Prime Minister Bounnyang Vorachit also attended the ceremony .
Japan 's Nenbutsushu Buddhist sect announced last month that it will not provide funding for the summit .
The pullout came after October 's ouster of Burmese Prime Minister General Khin Nyunt .
Previous World Buddhist Summits have been held in Japan , Thailand and Cambodia .
African Union observers say Sudan has failed to meet a deadline to abide by a cease-fire and stop attacking rebels in the western Darfur region .
AU officials reported fresh fighting Sunday , after mediators in Nigeria threatened to take Sudan and the rebels to the U.N. Security Council .
Unknown gunmen also fired Sunday at an African Union helicopter in Darfur .
There are no reports of casualties .
Sudanese Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman had earlier announced an immediate halt to all military operations in Darfur and asked the United Nations to make the same demand of the rebels .
But a rebel spokesman told the Reuters News Agency that Sudan has failed to keep earlier promises to stop attacks .
Fighting between largely Arab pro-government militias and non-Arab rebels in Darfur has left tens of thousands dead , including many civilians .
Chad 's parliamentary election has been postponed for two years as part of a deal between the government and the opposition parties that boycotted last year 's presidential election .
President Idriss Deby and a coalition of about 20 opposition parties called " Coordination for the Defense of the Constitution " signed the agreement Monday after six months of negotiations .
The new accord delays elections until December 2009 to allow for the creation of computerized and tamper-proof electoral lists , as well as biometric voting cards to prevent fraud .
In the meantime , members of the opposition will have more of a role in the current government .
Some analysts say the agreement will do little to change Chad 's political climate , considering President Deby has managed to keep a firm hold on power .
Opposition parties boycotted the 2006 presidential balloting that led to Mr. Deby 's re-election .
They accused the ruling party of electoral corruption .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has reduced to 40 years the life prison term of a former Bosnian Serb mayor convicted of overseeing detention camps for Croats and Muslims .
The appeals chamber of the Hague-based court Wednesday said Milomir Stakic 's conviction would stand , but cut his prison term .
The court said the lower judge had made errors in the sentencing procedure , but called the impact of the problem limited .
In 2003 , Stakic was the first person to be sentenced to life in prison by the tribunal .
He was convicted of helping to set up three prison camps near the town of Prijedor , in northwestern Bosnia-Herzegovina where he was mayor .
The court acquitted him of genocide charges .
More than 20,000 Bosnian Muslims and Croats were driven from their homes in Prijedor , and more than 15,000 were killed .
A U.S. military helicopter has crashed northwest of Baghdad .
There is no immediate word on casualties .
The U.S. military confirmed that an Apache attack helicopter with two pilots on board went down around 11 a.m. local time in a field , and that an investigation is under way to determine the cause of the crash .
In Baghdad , authorities say two Iraqi civilians were killed in a roadside bomb blast near a police station in a Sunni district of the city .
Elsewhere in the capital , at least two people , including a child , were killed in a drive-by shooting , and the U.S. military says a soldier was killed by small-arms fire while investigating a burning vehicle .
Sunday , at least 30 people , including many policemen , were killed in a series of car bombings in the northern city of Mosul .
Millions of Americans are gathering with family and friends Thursday , to reflect on their blessings for the Thanksgiving holiday .
In towns and cities across the United States , Thanksgiving is marked by parades , charity events and traditional turkey dinners .
The American Automobile Association estimates that some 37-million Americans will travel 80 kilometers or more from home this holiday , a slight increase over last year .
After several weeks of almost non-stop travel , President Bush is spending the holiday at his ranch in Crawford , Texas to spend a few quiet days with his family .
Mr. Bush said Wednesday he is thinking of American military personnel serving abroad , as well as their families .
He said Americans are thankful for their sacrifices .
Thanksgiving is observed each year on the fourth Thursday in November .
It dates back to 1621 , when European settlers and native American Indians ate together to celebrate a bountiful harvest .
Taiwan 's future president , Ma Ying-jeou , is a U.S.-educated lawyer who served as minister for justice and minister without portfolio during the 1990s .
Mr. Ma unseated Chen Shui-bian , the current president , as Taipei mayor in 1998 .
Last August , Mr. Ma was cleared of corruption charges filed against him .
The charges prompted his resignation as party chairman .
Prosecutors accused him of misusing $ 365,000 in government funds while Taipei mayor .
Mr. Ma has vowed not to provoke China with independence moves , so the two sides can co-exist and promote economic integration .
He has said he wants to open direct air and shipping links with China .
Police in Chile have used water canons and teargas to disperse student demonstrators calling for educational reform .
About 1,000 students attempted to march through downtown Santiago Monday .
They were met by police who broke up the protest .
Students threw rocks at police vehicles and tried to block roads with burning tires .
The protest was smaller than one conducted last week by some 800,000 students .
The students demanded free public transportation and fee waivers for college entrance exams .
They also wanted reform of the education law created under former dictator General Augusto Pinochet .
Negotiations between the students and the government ended Friday with no agreement .
President Michelle Bachelet has promised to reduce fares for student bus passes , but rejected demands for free transportation , saying it is too costly .
The price of crude oil dropped more than two percent in New York trading Wednesday , falling to the lowest level in about a month .
The price of a barrel of crude oil for future delivery was off nearly $ 2 and went as low as $ 73.83 .
The decline came as a government report said the total supply of crude oil and refined fuels in the United States was more than 1.1 billion barrels , the highest level in at least two decades .
An abundant supply of petroleum products generally pushes prices downward .
Ukraine has denied reports there are secret prisons run by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency on Ukrainian territory .
Foreign Ministry spokesman , Vasilily Filipchuk Tuesday called a Swiss media report saying Ukraine allowed the covert U.S. interrogation centers on its soil " absurd . "
Russia 's Novosti news agency says Ukraine 's penitentiary and security service officials also dismissed the Swiss report .
The Swiss newspaper Sonntags-Blick says Swiss security officials intercepted an Egyptian government document mentioning secret CIA prisons in several eastern European nations , including Ukraine , Romania , Macedonia , Bulgaria as well as in Serbia 's province of Kosovo .
Iran 's foreign minister has postponed a visit to Saudi Arabia , which was to be part of a tour of Gulf States aimed at gathering support for Iran 's controversial nuclear program .
Manouchehr Mottaki was to hold talks with his Saudi counterpart Prince Saud al-Faisal in Jeddah Wednesday .
Instead he traveled to the United Arab Emirates , following talks in Oman .
Iranian and Saudi officials said the meeting was postponed because of differences in the men 's schedules , and the two would meet in the future .
They also dismissed reports of tension between the two nations sparked by the Iraq war .
Prince Saud has expressed concerns over Iran 's alleged interference in Iraq , including the entry of people , money and weapons to Iraq .
Iran has denied the allegations .
Members of a delegation from the Congress of South African Trade Unions ( COSATU ) say they have been denied entry to Zimbabwe as they arrived in the capital , Harare for a fact-finding mission early Wednesday .
The delegation members told reporters they were met at the airport by Zimbabwean officials who turned the group back .
The delegation is expected to return to Johannesburg later today .
Zimbabwe 's government expelled a similar delegation last October and had warned the COSATU members that they would be deported or jailed .
The labor group said it intended to investigate Zimbabwe 's political climate ahead of general elections scheduled for next month .
US officials say an al-Qaida leader killed in a drone attack in northwestern Pakistan was not Osama bin Laden .
U.S. officials say a top al-Qaida leader has been killed in a drone attack in restive northwestern Pakistan .
The officials did not identify the person killed , but they said it was not al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
A U.S. television network , NBC , first reported the drone attack earlier this week .
The exact date of the attack is unclear .
Earlier this week , Pakistani officials said a suspected U.S. drone attack killed at least three people in northwestern Pakistan .
Intelligence officials say the pace of attacks by drones ( unmanned aircraft ) has increased under the Obama administration .
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar In Afghanistan , 17 members of the Hezb-e-Islami militant group have laid down their arms and surrendered to authorities in the southeast of the country .
The Hezb-e-Islami is led by former Afghan prime minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar , who is on the United States ' most wanted list of terror suspects .
The governor of Khost province , Merajudeen Patan told reporters the 17 men are from different districts of Paktia and Khost provinces , and that they have returned from Pakistan to join the political process and help rebuild war-torn Afghanistan .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai offered an amnesty to rank-and-file Taleban fighters last year .
He said all but a hard core of 150 militants wanted for human rights violations would be able to rejoin the political process .
Police have broken up a Europe-wide child trafficking ring involving mostly Bulgarian children trained in petty crime .
Italian police led the operation , arresting 41 Bulgarian nationals in Italy , Bulgaria , Austria , and Germany .
Investigators said Monday impoverished Bulgarian families sold more than 100 children to the traffickers who then smuggled them across Europe to carry out such petty crimes as picking pockets .
The investigators said the suspects shared some of the stolen money with the parents .
Police also said some of the children were sexually abused .
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the Tortoise , who replied , laughing :
" Though you be swift as the wind , I will beat you in a race . "
The Hare , believing her assertion to be simply impossible , assented to the proposal ; and they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the goal .
On the day appointed for the race the two started together .
The Tortoise never for a moment stopped , but went on with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course .
The Hare , lying down by the wayside , fell fast asleep .
At last waking up , and moving as fast as he could , he saw the Tortoise had reached the goal , and was comfortably dozing after her fatigue .
Slow but steady wins the race .
China 's state-run media say a 19-year-old Chinese soldier has been hospitalized with bird flu .
It is not immediately clear if the soldier has been infected with the often deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Fifteen people have died in China since the outbreak in 2003 .
Worldwide , the virus has killed 186 people , mostly in Southeast Asia .
The virus is mainly passed on to humans through contact with infected poultry .
But experts fear the virus could spark a pandemic if it mutates into a form easily transmissible upon human to human contact .
Indian authorities say at least 32 people have been killed in two road accidents in northern and western parts of the country .
Officials in Indian Kashmir say at least 15 people died when a bus veered off a steep mountain road and plunged into a gorge .
Reports from the area say at least 15 other people were injured but survived Wednesday 's accident .
Survivors say the driver lost control of the bus on a sharp curve , and the vehicle plunged 250 meters down a mountainside .
Villagers and police used ropes to reach the wreck .
Hours later , in western Gujarat state , a truck carrying sacks of salt and 19 people overturned and crashed into a flooded ditch .
Local officials say 17 people did not survive the plunge .
AN OWL , in her wisdom , counseled the Birds that when the acorn first began to sprout , to pull it all up out of the ground and not allow it to grow .
She said acorns would produce mistletoe , from which an irremediable poison , the bird-lime , would be extracted and by which they would be captured .
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax , which men had sown , as it was a plant which boded no good to them .
And , lastly , the Owl , seeing an archer approach , predicted that this man , being on foot , would contrive darts armed with feathers which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves .
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words , but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad .
But afterwards , finding her words were true , they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds .
Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things , while she no longer gives them advice , but in solitude laments their past folly .
The U.S. embassy in Iraq says a rocket attack on Baghdad 's heavily fortified Green Zone has killed three people and wounded 15 others .
The embassy said those killed in the attack Thursday include two Ugandans and a Peruvian .
All of the victims were working for an American security contractor .
The Green Zone is home to Iraqi government buildings as well as the U.S. embassy .
Elsewhere in Iraq Thursday , gunmen killed at least two people in separate attacks , including a Sunni cleric .
Police say the cleric ( Fathi al-Nuaimi ) was killed in the northern city of Mosul .
In another attack in the city , gunmen killed a bystander after opening fire on a policeman .
Police say the officer and another civilian were wounded in the attack .
Mosul has remained an active area for insurgents , even as security in other parts of the country has improved and violence has diminished .
A bad economy can impact people 's health as well as their wealth .
Carol Pearson reports on the impact plunging stock markets are having on Americans .
Spain 's National Court has sentenced a Spanish citizen , released last year from the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , to six years in prison for membership in al-Qaida .
The court announced the sentence in the case of Hamed Aberrahman Ahmed Wednesday .
Prosecutors say Mr. Ahmed had gone to Afghanistan to train with Osama bin Laden 's followers .
He has denied al-Qaida membership .
Mr. Ahmed was arrested in Pakistan in late 2001 .
Pakistani authorities later handed him over to U.S. forces , who sent him to the military detention facility at Guantanamo Bay .
U.S authorities turned him over to Spain in February of last year .
An Israeli television station has broadcast the first video images of Israel 's controversial Dimona nuclear facility .
The privately owned station , Channel 10 , showed the video Friday as part of a documentary about the plant .
It did not explain how the video was obtained , but it said the showing had been authorized by Israeli military censors .
The Israeli government has prohibited journalists from viewing the Dimona plant and has denied safety inspections by foreign nuclear experts .
In 1986 , the first still pictures of the facility were released by former technician , Mordechai Vanunu .
He was later jailed for 18 years on treason charges .
Foreign experts say Dimona is being used to produce nuclear warheads .
Israel has neither acknowledged nor denied having a nuclear arsenal .
Venezuela 's National Assembly has approved new joint venture deals with foreign oil companies , months after the companies were forced to give up their majority stakes to government control .
The agreements approved Tuesday create mixed companies consisting of Venezuela 's state oil company and foreign minority partners ( France 's Total , Norway 's Statoil , Britain 's BP , and U.S.-based Chevron ) .
As part of the deals , the foreign companies will make multi-million dollar payments .
This money will be subtracted from the amount Venezuela owes the companies for taking over their majority stakes in oil fields and refining plants .
Chevron 's agreement does not include a monetary contribution clause .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez seized majority control of the oil operations in the Orinoco Basin in May , offering foreign companies minority stakes .
The Committee to Protect Journalists says it is alarmed by Niger 's attempt to censor coverage of hunger and malnutrition in parts of the West African nation .
In a statement from New York , the media rights group was reacting to the Niger government 's move revoking permission for a local BBC team to report on hunger issues .
The CPJ said the government was putting its desire to protect its image ahead of the desperate needs of its own citizens .
It called on the government to allow full coverage of the humanitarian needs of the local population .
On Wednesday , a Niger government spokesman , Ben Omar , told VOA Hausa service that journalists were giving incorrect impressions about the country 's food situation .
Aid agencies say that some three million people suffered from severe food shortages in Niger in 2005 .
A top U.N. official says indirect talks between the Ugandan government and northern rebels have provided the best chance for peace in 18 years of conflict .
U.N. Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland praised the Ugandan government Wednesday for its renewed efforts to seek dialogue .
Mr. Egeland says the conflict has forced up to 90 percent of the population in some areas of northern Uganda from their homes , adding that hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake .
Rebels from the Lord 's Resistance Army are notorious for attacking civilians and kidnapping children for use as soldiers or sex slaves .
Over the last few weeks , the rebels and the Ugandan government declared a temporary cease-fire and held talks through mediators .
The government says it is extending the truce for another week in the hopes of starting formal peace talks by then .
German Defense Minister Karl Theodor zu Guttenberg says Army Inspector General Wolfgang Schneiderhan failed to provide adequate information about the incident in which civilians were killed .
Germany 's top army officer has resigned over an investigation into a September air strike in Afghanistan in which civilians were among those killed .
German Defense Minister Karl Theodor zu Guttenberg announced Thursday that General Wolfgang Schneiderhan had resigned .
Guttenberg told parliament that Schneiderhan failed to provide adequate information about the incident .
An Afghan government-appointed commission said 30 civilians were killed in the September 4 air strike in northern Kunduz province .
A commission investigator says 69 Taliban members were also killed after a German commander ordered the NATO strike on militants who had seized two fuel trucks .
Initial NATO investigations indicated that civilians were among the victims .
Bangladesh is planning what a U.N. agency calls the biggest measles vaccination campaign in history , hoping to inoculate 33.5 million children between the age of nine months and 10 years .
Officials in Dhaka say the three-week program , organized with the United Nations Children 's Fund , will help curb the disease that kills an estimated 20,000 Bangladeshi children every year .
The U.N. agency 's spokesman says the campaign will start on February 25 and will end on March 16 .
The agency says the program will involve approximately 50,000 skilled vaccinators and 750,000 volunteers .
The Bangladeshi government developed and adopted the plan of action to control measles in accordance with the current World Health Organization and UNICEF Global Measles Reduction strategy .
The U.S. State Department says it is encouraged by Nicaragua 's decision to ratify the Central American Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA ) .
In a statement issued Tuesday , Deputy Spokesman Adam Ereli called the economic pact " Nicaragua 's best opportunity " to gain the benefits of trade and investment .
He also said Nicaragua has taken positive political steps since Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick visited last week .
President Bush has said the deal will strengthen democracy and reduce poverty in the Latin American nations that have signed the bill .
The economic deal removes trade barriers between the United States and Costa Rica , El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras , Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic .
In the United States , supporters of the plan say it will open new markets for U.S. goods and services .
Critics say it will send U.S. jobs to Central America , where labor is cheaper .
News reports quote American officials as saying police in Zambia have detained a man whom U.S. authorities suspect of involvement in the deadly July 7 bombings in London .
The reports Thursday by CNN Television and The Los Angeles Times newspaper identify the man as Haroon Rashid Aswat , a British citizen of South Asian descent in his early 30s .
The reports say U.S. and Zambian officials are holding talks to determine where to prosecute Mr. Aswat .
Reports say Mr. Aswat came to the attention of U.S. authorities in connection with alleged attempts to set up an al-Qaida training camp in the western United States several years ago .
Separately , British police are still conducting a nationwide manhunt for the three remaining fugitive suspects in last week 's failed bomb attacks on the London transit system .
Police arrested a fourth suspect Wednesday .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says he expects the Bosnian Serb government to follow up its apology for the 1995 Srebrenica massacre with a drive to arrest and prosecute those responsible for the killings .
Mr. Annan 's spokesman , Fred Eckhard , says the UN chief welcomes last week 's Bosnian Serb apology and condolences to the relatives of Srebrenica massacre victims .
The Bosnian Serb government has acknowledged that Bosnian Serb forces killed almost 8,000 Muslim men and boys in July 1995 , after overrunning the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica .
Following the apology , Bosnian Serb President Dragan Cavic urged indicted war crimes suspects to surrender to authorities , saying it is crucial for the future of the Bosnia Serb Republic .
In connection with the massacre , the U.N. war crimes court in The Hague has indicted several Bosnian Serb officials and commanders , some of whom remain at large .
Pakistani officials say security forces have killed at least 23 militants in fighting that took place during a search operation in the country 's northwest .
The clash took place in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday , a day after militants launched a suicide bomb attack near a paramilitary base , killing one soldier .
Officials say Tuesday 's gunbattle began when militants opened fire on troops searching the area .
Pakistan 's military carried out a major offensive against the Taliban in Lower Dir and neighboring Swat Valley last year .
Russian officials say they are destroying thousands of domestic birds in an effort to contain the spread of a bird flu outbreak that began in Siberia and has spread west to the Ural mountains region .
Health officials and the Emergency Situations Ministry say the outbreak of the highly potent H5N1 strain of virus could pose a threat to humans .
They also say it could spread to the Mediterranean area and the Middle East as birds migrate westward to avoid the harsh Russian winter .
Officials say the illness , which can be fatal , has not yet spread to humans in Russia .
At least 60 people in southeast Asia have died from bird flu since 2003 .
On Monday , authorities said the virus had been discovered in the Chelyabinsk region , but it is not clear whether it was the H5N1 strain .
Indonesian health officials say a 16-year-old boy who had tested positive for bird flu has died .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization , the death would be Indonesia 's 43rd from the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus .
Health Ministry officials say the patient had been in contact with sick chickens in the West Java district of Bekasi .
Officials say samples from the boy are being sent to a laboratory in the United States for secondary testing .
Health experts are closely watching Indonesia .
Seven members of a single family died in a north Sumatra village last May .
The deaths were the largest cluster of its kind since the global outbreak began in 2003 , and raised concerns about human-to-human transmission of the virus .
Egypt says it will build a nuclear power plant to meet its growing energy needs .
The country 's energy minister Hassan Younes told the state-owned newspaper Al-Ahram that Egypt plans to build a 1000 Megawatt nuclear power plant on the Mediterranean coast .
He said the project will cost $ 1.5 billion and that the government will seek foreign investment .
The announcement comes three days after President Hosni Mubarak said Egypt should create a nuclear program for peaceful uses .
Egypt abandoned plans for nuclear energy in 1986 after the accident at the Soviet nuclear plant in Chernobyl .
Cairo has been largely silent on the dispute between Iran and major powers over Tehran 's nuclear enrichment activities .
The U.S. believes Iran is trying to build a nuclear weapon .
Egypt has long called for a Middle East free of nuclear weapons .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is in Turkey , for talks on the stalled Middle East peace process and the impact of a European freeze on aid to the Hamas-led Palestinian government .
Mr. Abbas is to meet with Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan during his two-day visit .
He visits Norway , Finland and France later this week .
The United States and the European Union cut off direct aid to the Palestinian government earlier this year , after Hamas refused to renounce violence and recognize Israel .
Turkey maintains close ties with both Israel and the Palestinians , and has frequently offered to mediate their long-standing conflict .
In February , the Ankara government angered Israel when it hosted a Hamas delegation for talks described as a push to persuade Hamas to renounce violence .
South Africa has offered a higher wage increase to public service workers in an effort to avert a strike by some 900,000 members of the civil service .
The public services ministry announced Thursday it has offered to raise salaries by 7 percent .
The previous offer was 6.5 percent , but unions are demanding an 8.6 percent raise .
The ministry said its offer of about $ 86 ( 630 rand ) for a housing allowance had not changed .
Unions have asked for nearly $ 140 ( 1,000 rand ) .
One union , the 210,000 member Public Servants Association , had threatened to begin its strike Thursday .
The other workers have threatened to walk off their jobs next week .
Public Service and Administration Minister Richard Baloyi has called for any strikes to be delayed until he is able to meet with union leaders Thursday .
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations is dismissing charges by Venezuela 's foreign minister that he was mistreated by New York airport security , calling the diplomat 's protest " street theater . "
U.S. envoy John Bolton said Monday , there was no incident at the John F. Kennedy airport , where Venezuela 's Nicolas Maduro was detained by authorities Saturday .
Maduro says officials frisked and physically threatened him .
Bolton said Maduro purchased his plane ticket in a time and manner that raised security concerns , and instead of complying with a secondary screening , Bolton says Maduro called reporters about the incident .
Bolton labeled Maduro 's actions " propaganda . "
Maduro rejected a U.S. apology for the incident , which capped a tense week for U.S.-Venezuelan relations .
At the U.N. General Assembly last week , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez called President Bush " the devil . "
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is headed to Washington to meet with President Bush Wednesday .
The two leaders are expected to focus on the international response to Iran 's controversial nuclear program .
Germany has held months of negotiations with Tehran , alongside Britain and France .
This is Ms. Merkel 's second trip to the United States since she took office last November .
Ms. Merkel will travel to New York for several hours on Thursday for economic meetings , and will return to Washington later that day to speak at the American Jewish Committee , which works to safeguard Jews and Jewish life worldwide .
Some officials in Washington and Berlin view the visits as a chance for the two allies to re-build ties that were strong during the Cold War , but frayed over differences between President Bush and former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder over the Iraq war .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has described as ridiculous a message by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden that calls on European nations to stop supporting the U.S.-led mission in Afghanistan .
A statement from Mr. Karzai 's office said bin Laden 's remarks are contrary to Islamic culture and human values .
It also said bin Laden is the reason terrorism plagues the country and blamed the al-Qaida chief for causing the deaths of thousands of innocent Afghans .
On Thursday , excerpts of a recorded message said to be the voice of Bin Laden was broadcast on the Arabic television network Al-Jazeera .
On it , bin Laden says he is responsible for the September 11th , 2001 , attacks on the United States , and that the Afghan people had nothing to do with them .
He also calls on Europeans to stand against Washington and allied governments that are fighting extremists and overseeing reconstruction projects in Afghanistan .
Zimbabwe 's main labor union says two South African-based trade union workers were deported Wednesday shortly after they arrived in Harare where they were planning to discuss the establishment of a trade union school .
The Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions ( ZCTU ) said immigration officials told Bobbie Marie and Vihemina Prout to return home , because they did not have a clearance from the Ministry of Labor to meet union officials .
ZCTU secretary-general Wellington Chibebe said the latest deportation proves that Zimbabwe is a nation " under seige . "
Last week , Zimbabwe expelled a delegation of the South African trade union COSATU , which tried to conduct a fact-finding mission in the country .
African Union leaders have convened their summit in Khartoum Monday with host Sudan 's bid to head the continental bloc casting a cloud over the meeting .
Five African leaders have appealed to Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir to withdraw his bid to hold the AU chairmanship because of ongoing violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Tens of thousands of people have been killed and two million displaced since fighting broke out in 2003 between government-backed Arab militias , known as Janjaweed , and rebel forces .
Militia fighters are accused of carrying out atrocities against civilians .
The United States has accused Mr. al-Bashir 's government of committing genocide in Darfur .
Human rights group have also been very critical of Sudan , and Darfur rebels have threatened to boycott AU-sponsored peace talks if Khartoum assumes chairmanship of the 53-nation African Union .
Bolivia 's elections court has confirmed that President Evo Morales ' party won more than half the seats in the nation 's constituent assembly election last week .
The official count released Tuesday shows that Mr. Morales ' Movement Toward Socialism ( MAS ) party won 137 of the assembly 's 255 seats .
That result leaves MAS short of the two-thirds needed to control the assembly , which will rewrite the constitution .
Coming in second was the main opposition PODEMOS alliance with 60 seats .
A referendum held at the same time on whether the national government will grant Bolivian states greater autonomy failed in a majority of states .
Burma 's state-run media say the military government has dismissed eight deputy Cabinet ministers and one supreme court judge , without giving reasons for the moves .
Those dismissed include the Deputy Minister of Defense , Major-General Khin Maung Win , and Deputy Minister of Industry Thein Thun .
The dismissed Supreme Court judge was Khin Maung Aye .
New appointments to fill the posts were not announced .
Since assuming power in 1988 , the leaders of the present regime and its cabinet have undergone a number of changes .
Last month , the government dismissed two Cabinet ministers and appointed four new ministers and four new deputy ministers .
Oil prices fell more than two percent Wednesday as the U.S. government reported a bigger-than-expected rise in crude supplies .
The price of oil fell $ 1.16 from Tuesday 's close ( or 2.2 percent ) to $ 52.82 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange .
A U.S. government report said U.S. crude supplies rose by 3.3 million barrels in the week that ended March 20 to a total of 356.6 million barrels .
Analysts had expected a rise of just over one million barrels .
Oil prices had jumped to a 3-month high of $ 54 a barrel Monday on expectations that a U.S. government plan to help ailing banks will trigger an economic recovery and boost energy demand .
Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair has called for automatically deporting foreigners who commit crimes , following criticism of the country 's deportation program .
Mr. Blair spoke in the House of Commons Wednesday , saying that the government 's deportation system has been failing for years .
He added that Home Secretary Charles Clarke is working to fix those problems and ensure that foreigners are sent to their home countries after serving their prison sentences .
But opposition lawmakers are calling for Clarke to resign .
They say he is to blame for the failure to deport more than 1,000 former prisoners since 1999 , including some violent criminals .
Recent media reports say a suspect in the killing of a police officer last year is a Somali man who was not deported after an earlier prison term .
The criticism of the ruling Labor Party comes ahead of local elections on Thursday .
Opinion polls indicate Labor candidates will fare poorly .
An international meeting set to begin in Ethiopia on Thursday will focus on how to reverse African poverty and gain greater support from developed nations , including more debt relief .
The British-sponsored Commission for Africa is intended , in part , to map out an African policy agenda for Britain to press when it heads the G8 and European Union in 2005 .
The commission aims to propose action from the West on boosting aid , making trade rules more fair for African exporters , and obtaining more debt relief .
Industrialized nations at meetings of the G7 nations on Friday and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank Saturday and Sunday failed to agree on a strategy for reducing the heavy burden of debt faced by some of the world 's poorest nations .
Palestinian officials say security forces have arrested two Palestinian militants over rocket attacks on Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip .
Authorities said Friday the members of the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades were detained for questioning .
The group is loosely affiliated with the ruling Fatah movement .
An al-Aqsa spokesman confirmed that two of the group 's militants had been detained .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas recently vowed to use an " iron fist " against militants to enforce a truce between Israel and the Palestinians .
Tibetan leader cancels foreign travel .
Tibetan exiles in India fasted and prayed for peace on Saturday , and their spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , joined in from a hospital bed in Mumbai .
The 73-year-old Tibetan Buddhist leader is being treated for abdominal pain .
But a spokesman says he still joined in the 12-hour fast after doctors gave him permission to do so .
The Dalai Lama canceled two upcoming foreign trips to undergo medical tests , after experiencing discomfort during recent travels .
He spends several months a year traveling to promote Tibetan causes , and recently returned to India after a visit to France .
A spokesman says he expects the Tibetan leader to return to his home in Dharamsala , in northern India , in a day or two .
The Sultanate of Brunei 's influence peaked between the 15th and 17th centuries when its control extended over coastal areas of northwest Borneo and the southern Philippines .
Brunei subsequently entered a period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal succession , colonial expansion of European powers , and piracy .
In 1888 , Brunei became a British protectorate ; independence was achieved in 1984 .
The same family has ruled Brunei for over six centuries .
Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and natural gas fields , the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs in Asia .
The United Nations has condemned the killing of a U.N. security officer in southern Somalia .
Mohamuud Musse Gurage , a Somali national , was shot by two unidentified gunmen Monday night in the port town of Kismayo in Somalia 's Lower Juba region .
The United Nations says it has evacuated its staffers from the area .
Foreigners and Somali nationals with international ties have been targeted by assassins in Somalia , which has been ruled by warring factions since the collapse of the government in 1991 .
A fragile transitional administration is now in place following peace talks in Kenya but security concerns continue .
In July , prominent Somali peace activist Abdulkadir Yahya Ali was gunned down in the capital , Mogadishu .
And a journalist with the British Broadcasting Corporation was murdered outside her hotel in the capital in February .
Spain 's King Juan Carlos has defended the country 's parliamentary monarchy as a guarantor of national stability .
The monarch told university students in the northern city of Oviedo that the monarchy had contributed to the longest period of stability and prosperity in democratic Spain .
His speech came more than two weeks after separatists in Catalonia burned posters of the king and his wife , Queen Sofia , in the town of Girona , northeast of Barcelona .
The separatists also shouted pro-independence slogans , such as " Catalonians have no king . "
Both the Socialist government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and the opposition Popular Party have defended and backed the monarch .
Outside Catalonia and the Separatist Basque region to the west , Juan Carlos remains extremely popular .
Many Spaniards respect him for helping to thwart a rightist military coup in 1981 and strengthening democracy in the country .
The list of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 's confessions released by the Defense Department , ranges from real terror attacks to plots that never happened .
One claim was censored .
Mohammed claimed responsibility for beheading Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl in Pakistan in 2002 .
He also took responsibility for a " shoe-bombing " plot to bring down two U.S. airplanes .
Mohammed said he planned dozens of other attacks that never happened , including plots to kill former U.S. presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton , the late Pope John Paul II , and Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
He also said he planned to blow up the Panama Canal , and to destroy U.S. embassies in Indonesia , Australia and Japan .
The World Health Organization is urging greater cooperation among nations to tackle the growing number of cross-border threats to public health .
To mark World Health Day Saturday , the WHO issued a report that warns of emerging international threats to health security .
The report says infectious diseases such as HIV / AIDs , Ebola , the SARS ( Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ) outbreak in Asia , and human cases of the H5N1 bird flu have emerged in unprecedented numbers .
The WHO says natural disasters , environmental change , bioterrorism and chemical spills also pose major challenges .
WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said countries have to share responsibility and take pre-emptive action against such threats .
As part of that effort , the Geneva-based U.N. body has revised its international regulations to help countries identify and respond earlier to health challenges .
A report from the investigative arm of the U.S. Congress says a new tracking system is needed to see if economic sanctions against Iran are effective .
The Government Accountability Office , GAO , says several U.S. agencies need to measure if sanctions are helping to curtail Iran 's alleged support of terrorist groups .
The report says the agencies also need to assess the status of Iran 's controversial nuclear program .
The United States imposed economic sanctions on Iran in 1987 , but this new report from the GAO says the impact of those long running sanctions is difficult to determine .
The report comes as President Bush completes a visit to the Middle East aimed , in part , at securing support for increased pressure on Iran .
The Sudanese army has strongly denied involvement in a series of raids on villages and a displaced persons camp in Darfur in which at least 44 people were killed .
On Saturday , the African Union accused Sudanese government forces of coordinating attacks with pro-government militiamen , known as the Janjaweed , of launching attacks in the western region over the past two weeks .
The Sudanese army says the information provided by A.U. Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe is incorrect and unreliable .
Meanwhile , the Sudanese government and two Darfur rebel groups began face to face talks in Nigeria Monday for first the first time since opening the latest round of negotiations in mid-September .
The proceedings began with a condemnation of the recent violence from the African Union 's chief mediator , Salim Ahmed Salim , who said attacks on civilians and continued banditry in Darfur are not understandable .
Officials Wednesday said Savo Todovic requested more time to fully comprehend the 18 charges against him .
He was extradited to the tribunal after surrendering to police in the Bosnian Serb Republic on Saturday .
Prosecutors indicted Mr. Todovic for his role as deputy commander of a notorious Serb prison , The Dom , in the city of Foca in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina .
They say he selected detainees for killings , beatings , interrogations and forced labor .
Mr. Todovic is the first suspect the Bosnian Serb government has handed over to The Hague war crimes tribunal .
International officials have been pressing the Bosnian Serbs to cooperate with the court in the arrest and extradition of war crimes suspects as required by the Dayton Peace Accord that halted the Bosnian conflict .
Chinese President Hu Jintao is offering aid to some of the world 's poorest countries - but made much of the deal contingent on the state 's recognition of China over Taiwan .
Addressing the U.N. General Assembly Wednesday in New York , President Hu said China will eliminate tariffs on most products from the 39 least-developed countries with diplomatic ties to China .
He also announced a series of aid measures for poor countries that includes job training , medicines , debt forgiveness and a $ 10 billion loan program .
He did not make clear whether all the aid measures he mentioned would apply only to China 's diplomatic partners .
Beijing does not allow countries to recognize both China and Taiwan , which it sees as a renegade province .
Millions of Muslims across South Asia have celebrated the annual Eid al-Fitr Islamic holiday , marking the end of the month-long Ramadan .
And millions of them will celebrate it on Wednesday because of different sightings of the new moon at different places .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai called on the world 's Muslims to help his country rid itself of insurgents .
In New Delhi , government offices closed , and thousands packed into the main 17th-century mosque known as " Jama Masjid " Tuesday morning to pray .
Eid was also celebrated Tuesday in the eastern Indian states of Bihar and West Bengal , and southern Karnataka and Kerala states .
But in other parts of the country it will be observed on Wednesday .
In Bangladesh , Eid will also fall on Wednesday .
In Pakistan , the official day of Eid will be Wednesday , though in some parts people celebrated it on Tuesday .
Night time curfews have gone into effect in more than 30 French cities and towns , and the country 's worst unrest in decades is showing signs of abating .
Police say 482 vehicles were burned across the country overnight , and 203 people were arrested .
But there were no reports of injuries , and police say the number of violent incidents has dropped since the curfews took effect .
Police say a school in the eastern town of Belfort was destroyed overnight and vandalism at an electricity station caused a power blackout in Lyon .
The area around Paris was reported quiet , despite the absence of curfews there .
Muslim youths of North African descent have mainly been responsible for the two weeks of riots .
The government has promised to address what many French say are the causes of the violence - unemployment , poor schools and housing , and racism .
The United Nations human rights envoy for Burma is calling on that country 's government to substantially improve human rights before the 2010 elections .
In a report Wednesday , envoy Tomas Ojea Quintana said that if the elections take place in an atmosphere in which human rights are fully respected , the vote will be seen as credible .
He outlined a series of measures that Burma should take , including amending laws that limit fundamental rights , such as freedom of expression , opinion and peaceful assembly .
The U.N. envoy said political prisoners should be released .
He said such a move would inspire political participation in the upcoming elections .
The envoy also suggested a number of changes for Burma 's judiciary , including guaranteeing due process and setting up mechanisms to investigate human rights abuses .
An Iranian official says his country will continue cooperating with the U.N. nuclear agency to prevent the imposition of more Security Council sanctions .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini made the comment Sunday .
On Friday , world powers meeting at the U.N. agreed to put off until November efforts to approve new sanctions .
But , the United States , other permanent Security Council members and Germany said they will seek a third round of sanctions against Iran unless diplomacy can resolve the dispute by November .
The United States and its allies accuse Tehran of trying to build atomic weapons under the cover of a civilian nuclear program .
Iran denies the charge .
The United States , France and Britain favor imposing new sanctions on Iran for its refusal to suspend sensitive nuclear activities .
Russia and China say Tehran should be given more time before further sanctions are imposed .
Palestinians in Israel and Lebanon turned out Friday to mark what they call the Naqba , or " catastrophe " of Israel 's creation 62 years ago .
Demonstrators staged protests in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip and in Beirut .
Lebanon is home to thousands of Palestinian refugees .
Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat released a statement saying the Naqba continues .
He accused Israel of refusing to recognize the " basic rights " of Palestinians .
More than 700,000 Palestinians are estimated to have fled , or were forced from their homes during the Arab-Israeli war , which began in 1948 .
Meanwhile , authorities in Israel say a Palestinian teenager in the West Bank was found dead Friday from a gunshot wound .
Palestinians allege Jewish settlers shot the teenager after he threw rocks at their cars .
President Barack Obama calls on Congress to provide new incentives to encourage Americans to make homes more energy-efficient .
U.S. President Barack Obama is calling on Congress to provide new incentives that would encourage Americans to make their homes more energy-efficient .
Speaking Tuesday at a large hardware store near Washington , Mr. Obama said the incentives would help consumers cut their energy costs enough to pay for the changes they make .
He also said it would help the economy by boosting consumer spending , and would put a lot of people to work in the construction industry , which has high unemployment .
The plan is part of a program the president previously announced to spur job creation .
It also calls for tax cuts for business and more spending on roads , broadband networks and other infrastructure .
Seven & I Holdings , the Japanese company that owns 7-Eleven convenience stores in the U.S. , Japan and elsewhere , has reached a deal to take over department stores Seibu and Sogo .
The $ 1.1 billion acquisition will make Seven & I the largest retailer in Japan by sales .
Under the deal announced Monday , Seven & I will buy a 65 percent stake in Millennium Retailing , which runs the Seibu and Sogo chains .
Millennium is currently controlled by an affiliate of Japanese brokerage Nomura Securities .
Seven & I plans to buy up the remaining shares of Millennium by March of next year .
The takeover of Seibu and Sogo will help 7-Eleven 's parent company expand into the luxury retail market , at a time when Japanese consumer spending is surging .
More than 200,000 people have been left without electricity in Spain 's Canary Islands after a powerful tropical storm ripped through the area , killing at least seven people .
Local officials say tropical storm Delta struck the region Monday , hitting the islands of Tenerife and La Palma the hardest .
The storm forced ports and airports to close .
The victims were a man who fell from his roof as he attempted to repair it and six migrants who drowned when their boat sank while it was trying to reach the islands from Africa .
Weather officials say the storm is expected to weaken as it heads toward northwestern Africa .
Turkish authorities say troops killed 10 Kurdish rebels in two operations since Monday .
The officials say seven rebels were killed in fighting with soldiers in Siirt province .
Three other rebels were shot and killed in Van province .
Authorities believe the three entered the area from Iran .
Turkey 's military has recently intensified operations against the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 .
The United States , the European Union and Turkey classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and from the Central American Federation in 1839 .
A 12-year civil war , which cost about 75,000 lives , was brought to a close in 1992 when the government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that provided for military and political reforms .
First inhabited by Arawak and later by Carib Indians , the Virgin Islands were settled by the Dutch in 1648 and then annexed by the English in 1672 .
The islands were part of the British colony of the Leeward Islands from 1872 - 1960 ; they were granted autonomy in 1967 .
The economy is closely tied to the larger and more populous US Virgin Islands to the west ; the US dollar is the legal currency .
Officials in Thailand say at least 47 Burmese refugees have left a camp on the Thai-Burma border this week to begin life in the United States .
The officials say the group of ethnic Karen refugees are the latest to leave the Than Him camp since the resettlement operation began August 15 .
The U.S. government has agreed to allow at least 2,500 of the refugees to resettle in the United States by the end of this year .
The refugees fled to escape fighting between Karen guerrillas and the Burmese army .
Some have been in the overcrowded camp for more than 20 years .
The United States issued a waiver to its immigration laws in May to allow many of the refugees to apply for resettlement in the U.S.
U.S. border officials have found a tunnel under the U.S.-Mexican border in southern California and say they suspect it was used to smuggle drugs or people .
A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency says the tunnel is near the border town of San Ysidro , south of San Diego .
She says the tunnel is about 11 meters long and one meter square in diameter .
She says trash and other evidence was found in the tunnel indicating it had been used recently .
Each year , thousands of people illegally enter the United States from Mexico .
U.S. lawmakers recently ordered construction of security fencing along the border to curb illegal crossing .
The largest civil rights organization of American Sikhs has expressed outrage at a new U.S. airport security policy that allows random searches of turbans .
The Sikh Coalition said it had been informed by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration that under new guidelines the religious headdress could be subject to pat-downs even if the turban wearers had passed a metal detector test .
On its website , the Coalition says it is concerned that the new policy amounts to religious profiling .
The organization urged Sikhs to sign a petition to the TSA to demonstrate grassroots concern with the new procedures .
It also asked all Sikhs to document their experience with the new headgear screening procedures .
The TSA said on its website it does not conduct ethnic or religious profiling .
French workers at a U.S.-run manufacturing plant in southeastern France have detained four managers , to protest plans to cut hundreds of jobs .
The workers at a Caterpillar heavy equipment plant in Grenoble were refusing Tuesday to let the managers , including the factory director , leave the premises .
Caterpillar is set to cut 733 workers at two plants in France .
The seizures , on the eve of the G20 global economic summit in London , mark the third time in recent weeks that French workers have hijacked executives to protest job losses .
Police did not intervene in the earlier incidents , and the hostages were released unharmed .
The French news agency quoted a union official , Benoit Nicolas , as saying a deal resulting in the release of the latest captives was within reach .
British film director Mike Leigh has canceled a trip to Israel to protest against a proposed loyalty oath .
Israel 's Cabinet last week passed a bill that would require non-Jewish immigrants to pledge loyalty to a " Jewish and democratic " state - language seen as discriminatory toward Israel 's Arab minority .
Leigh , the award-winning director of Naked and Secrets & Lies , said he was no longer prepared to take part in the " great masters " program at the Sam Spiegel Film & Television School in Jerusalem .
In a letter to school director Renen Schorr , Leigh , who is Jewish , said he opposed Israel 's policies toward Palestinians and called the loyalty oath the " last straw . "
The United States has rejected a North Korean demand to lift sanctions against Pyongyang as a condition for resuming nuclear disarmament talks .
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Tuesday the two issues are not related .
He said he does not see why the sanctions are preventing the North Korean government from rejoining six-party talks .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Tuesday the North Korean demand is another pretext to delay the talks .
Tuesday , North Korea said it will not return to the talks until the United States ends economic sanctions against Pyongyang .
In October , Washington blacklisted eight North Korean companies allegedly involved in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction .
U.S. officials also accuse Pyongyang of counterfeiting , money laundering and drug trafficking .
Aided by peace and neutrality for the whole of the 20th century , Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of living under a mixed system of high-tech capitalism and extensive welfare benefits .
It has a modern distribution system , excellent internal and external communications , and a skilled labor force .
In September 2003 , Swedish voters turned down entry into the euro system concerned about the impact on the economy and sovereignty .
Timber , hydropower , and iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy heavily oriented toward foreign trade .
Privately owned firms account for about 90 % of industrial output , of which the engineering sector accounts for 50 % of output and exports .
Agriculture accounts for little more than 1 % of GDP and of employment .
Until 2008 , Sweden was in the midst of a sustained economic upswing , boosted by increased domestic demand and strong exports .
This and robust finances offered the center-right government considerable scope to implement its reform program aimed at increasing employment , reducing welfare dependence , and streamlining the state 's role in the economy .
Despite strong finances and underlying fundamentals , the Swedish economy slid into recession in the third quarter of 2008 and growth continued downward in 2009 as deteriorating global conditions reduced export demand and consumption .
Strong exports of commodities and a return to profitability by Sweden 's banking sector drove the strong rebound in 2010 .
Iraqis living outside the country can begin voting Tuesday in the country 's parliamentary elections .
Expatriates will be able to cast ballots through Thursday , the day when Iraq itself holds the elections .
Fifteen countries have set up polling stations for Iraqis living abroad .
Authorities in Iraq are preparing tough security measures for Thursday 's elections .
The country 's borders will be closed , road traffic will be restricted except for vehicles with special permits , and night-time curfews will be extended starting tonight .
Early voting was held in Iraq Monday for soldiers , prisoners and hospital patients .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say gunmen shot dead a leading Sunni Muslim Arab politician .
Mizhar al-Dulaimi of the Free Progressive Iraqi Party was killed while campaigning in Ramadi , the capital of western Anbar province .
He had been urging Iraqis to vote in the parliamentary election .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , who is on a tour of the Middle East , met with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak Wednesday .
Rice and Mr. Mubarak were to discuss the aftermath of the militant group Hamas 's victory in the Palestinian elections .
She also met with Egyptian democracy activists Wednesday .
Few details were given about those meetings .
Rice 's Middle East tour is aimed at convincing Arab governments to take a stance against a Hamas-led Palestinian government .
Her next stop will be Saudi Arabia and then she will wrap up her tour in the United Arab Emirates .
On Tuesday , Rice met with Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit in Cairo .
During their meeting , Rice said Hamas must choose between terrorism and politics if it wants to successfully lead a Palestinian government .
The European Parliament has started its own investigation into reports of CIA secret prisons in Eastern Europe .
The lawmakers agreed Thursday in Brussels to set up a 46-member committee to look into the matter .
Several EU countries have set up their own probes .
The committee will recommend what political action should be taken against any country deemed to be involved .
Reports saying the CIA has secret detention centers in Europe first appeared in November in the Washington Post newspaper .
Human rights groups subsequently singled out Poland and Romania as possible sites for such facilities .
Both countries denied any involvement .
Meanwhile , Bulgaria 's Foreign Minister Ivaylo Kalfin has denied there are secret CIA prisons in his country .
His comment comes after a Swiss newspaper said local security officials had intercepted an Egyptian government document mentioning CIA prisons in several eastern European countries including Bulgaria and Ukraine .
Iraqi officials say two suicide bombers killed at least four people and wounded 17 in an attack outside a Shi'ite mosque in the northwestern city of Tal Afar .
Police say security forces fired at the bombers , who still managed to blow themselves up during prayer services Friday at the mosque .
In other news , the U.S. military says troops detained two suspected al-Qaida in Iraq fighters allegedly linked to a fatal roadside bombing on January 29 .
A military statement says one of the suspects was the " number one high value " target of the U.S. brigade that captured him .
The statement says five other al-Qaida members suspected of facilitating roadside bombings in Taji Qada , northwest of Baghdad , were also detained .
Heather Mills vows she 's ready to hit the dance floor on U.S. television .
The model-turned-activist , currently divorcing her husband of four years , Paul McCartney , says her decision to compete on the popular U.S. TV series Dancing With The Stars is no publicity stunt .
Mills , who lost her left leg below the knee in a 1993 motorcycle accident , will be the show 's first contestant with an artificial limb .
She will dance with a sleeve over her prosthesis to prevent it slipping off , and says she also has a spare if necessary .
Heather Mills plans to donate her appearance fee to the animal rights organization Viva .
One of the highest-rated shows on U.S. television , Dancing With The Stars begins its fourth season on March 19 .
President Bush plans to meet Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Washington next month for talks on cooperation in the war against terrorism .
The White House released a statement Tuesday that said the talks will be held October second and will include discussion on how to counter Kurdish rebels in Turkey .
The statement said the two leaders also will discuss ways to advance freedom in Lebanon , Iraq and other parts of the Middle East .
And they will talk about political and economic reforms in Turkey , as well as U.S. support for Turkey 's efforts to join the European Union .
The United Nations torture investigator says he has been blocked from visiting Cuba to look into allegations of human rights abuses .
Manfred Nowak said Wednesday he was disappointed when Cuba informed him they would be unable to accommodate his mission before his term ends several months from now on October 30 .
Nowak said Cuba had issued a " clear invitation " to allow him to assess the torture situation on the ground , but repeated attempts to schedule the trip had been blocked .
There was no immediate comment from Cuba .
Last week , the U.S.-based human rights group Freedom House named Cuba among the top 20 worst human rights abusers in the world , saying it and the other listed countries severely suppress political opposition , independent organization , and criticism of the state .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard says the apparent killing of international aid worker Margaret Hassan in Iraq is shocking and inhumane .
Mr. Howard also told the parliament Thursday in Canberra that the body of a woman found in Fallujah appears to be that of Ms. Hassan .
However , when questioned by reporters afterwards , Mr. Howard would not elaborate on the statement , saying only that Ms. Hassan 's killers have not returned her body .
On Sunday , U.S. Marines in Fallujah found the mutilated body of what appeared to be a Western woman .
Days earlier , Arabic television network al-Jazeera had said it received a video that appeared to show the killing .
Unidentified kidnappers abducted Ms. Hassan last month and called on Britain to withdraw its troops from Iraq .
Ms. Hassan headed Iraqi operations of the international charity CARE , as an employee of the group 's Australian branch .
President Bush was in the state of Tennessee Friday , to highlight some of his administration 's environmental accomplishments .
He stopped there after bad weather forced him to cancel an Earth Day visit to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park .
The president said Earth Day is an opportunity for Americans to recommit themselves to good stewardship of the land .
He said that since the 1970s , " the air 's cleaner , the land is better ... and the economy is growing . "
He added that ozone levels have dropped , said he has enacted provisions to cut emissions from heavy diesel engines by 90 percent , and described how his administration is aggressively restoring , improving and protecting a total of three million acres of wetlands .
But critics chide him for , among other things , allowing companies to sidestep anti-pollution regulations and seeking to open public lands to timber , oil and gas exploration .
Egypt 's health ministry says a teenage girl who tested positive for the H5N1 avian flu has died -- raising the number of deaths from the disease in Egypt to 14 .
The health ministry said the 15-year-old girl died at a Cairo hospital late Tuesday , despite being treated with the antiviral drug Tamiflu and being placed on a respirator .
The girl was hospitalized last week .
Officials say none of her family members was found to have the deadly form of bird flu .
The Egyptian government and the World Health Organization say 34 Egyptians , including several children , have contracted the H5N1 form of avian flu .
Fourteen of them have now died died .
Egypt has the largest number of human bird flu cases outside of Asia .
A suspected U.S. missile strike has killed two people in Pakistan 's North Waziristan tribal region .
Pakistani intelligence officials say the strike Saturday hit a house near the region 's main town of Miran Shah .
The Pakistani government has strongly condemned the suspected U.S. strikes in the country , saying they undermine Pakistan 's counter-terrorism efforts .
Pakistan 's defense minister , Ahmed Mukhtar , says officials will meet in early December to discuss the strikes , which allegedly are carried out by unmanned ( drone ) U.S. aircraft .
Iraq 's interim defense minister says one of Saddam Hussein 's closest aides , Ali Hassan al-Majid - better known as Chemical Ali - will be the first member of the ousted regime to go on trial for war crimes .
The minister , Hazem Shaalan , told reporters in Baghdad Wednesday , the trial could begin as early as next week , and that he did not expect it to be a long process .
On Tuesday , interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi announced that trials against Saddam 's top deputies would start next week , but did not specify which officials would appear in court .
Meanwhile , campaigning for Iraq 's January 30 election officially got under way Wednesday .
Mr. Allawi was among the first to officially announce his candidacy Wednesday , appealing to the country 's diverse ethnic and religious groups .
A relatively strong earthquake rocked southeastern Iran , Saturday , a day after a 5.7 magnitude quake shook a northeastern province , injuring at least 170 people .
Iranian state media say Saturday 's quake had a 5.7 magnitude .
The U.S. Geological Survey says it had a magnitude of 5.3 .
The quake jolted the Negar region of Kerman province around mid-morning , local time .
There have been no reports of damage or injuries .
The U.S. Geological Survey says Friday 's quake was centered near the northeastern city of Torbat-e-Heydariyeh .
Iran is located on major seismic fault lines .
The worst recent quake in Iran occurred in 2003 , killing about 30,000 people and destroying much of the ancient southern city of Bam .
United Nations peacekeepers in Haiti say they will increase patrols to prevent possible kidnappings when schools reopen next week .
In a statement , U.N. officials said troops and Haitian police will conduct vehicle searches and other security measures .
A U.N. spokesman told the Associated Press that officials fear that kidnappers may seek new victims as students return to class .
The U.N. Children 's Fund has condemned recent abductions of children in and around the Haitian capital , Port-au-Prince .
Since 2004 , the U.N. force in Haiti has been working to restore security and battle impunity in the impoverished nation .
The top U.S. presidential candidates say the latest unemployment numbers make it much more important for Congress to act quickly and responsibly to address the country 's financial crisis .
Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack Obama released statements Friday , calling on the House of Representatives to pass a financial bailout package for troubled financial institutions .
Both candidates are U.S. senators , and voted in favor of a revised rescue plan earlier this week .
McCain says Friday 's jobs report from the Labor Department shows the nation 's economy is on the wrong track .
He says if elected president he will " clean up the mess " created by the greed of financial firms , and fix the root causes of the crisis .
Obama says if elected he will rebuild the middle class and create millions of new jobs by investing in the country 's infrastructure and in renewable energy .
Ceremonies are being held Wednesday in the United States to mark the 64th anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , which drew America into World War II .
One ceremony is taking place at the USS Arizona Memorial , the site at Pearl Harbor where that battleship was sunk in the attack .
Guests at the memorial observed a moment of silence at the same time the Japanese attack began on December 7 , 1941 .
The attack killed more than 2,400 people and destroyed most of the U.S. Pacific fleet , which was based at Pearl Harbor .
In a speech Wednesday in Washington , President Bush honored Americans who fought in World War II , saying the United States did not waver in the cause for freedom .
Mr. Bush also said the victory by Allied forces in the war laid a foundation of peace for generations .
A Nigerian militant group has released the nationalities of seven hostages abducted Sunday from an offshore oil rig in Akwa Ibom state .
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta said Friday its hostages are two Americans , two French nationals , one Canadian and two Indonesians .
MEND says they are in good health .
The seven were abducted during an attack on a rig operated by Afren .
At least two of the rig 's crew members were wounded in the attack and left on the rig .
U.S. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said earlier this week that the United States is working with Nigerian officials to secure freedom for the hostages .
The Niger Delta is home to criminal gangs that steal oil and take hostages for ransom .
The region also has militants who say they are fighting for a fairer distribution of oil wealth .
Leaders of Germany 's two main political parties will hold a special meeting Thursday to determine who should lead a so-called " grand coalition " government , after last month 's general election ended without a clear winner .
The announcement followed Wednesday 's third round of coalition talks between Christian Democratic leader Angela Merkel and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder , who heads the ruling Social Democrats .
Ms. Merkel , who is battling to become chancellor , told reporters she is more optimistic than pessimistic .
The Social Democrats have insisted that Mr. Schroeder remain in office even though the Christian Democrats hold a slight lead in parliament after recent elections .
Both parties failed to win enough seats to govern with their respective small party allies .
A poll released Wednesday shows 34 percent of Germans supporting Ms. Merkel as chancellor and 26 percent for Mr. Schroeder .
India and Pakistan have begun a trial run of a bus service linking the Sikh holy city of Amritsar in India with the Pakistani city of Lahore .
Indian transport officials were on board the yellow bus as it left Amritsar Sunday for the 60-kilometer journey to Lahore .
The bus crossed into Pakistan at Wagah .
A Pakistani bus will carry out a trial run to Amritsar on December 13 , and the full twice-weekly passenger service between the two cities is expected to begin on December 23 .
The bus link is part of efforts started two years ago to ease decades of hostility between India and Pakistan .
In early April , buses started running across divided Kashmir to reunite families , some of whom have been separated for almost 60 years .
Mauritania has extradited to Mali a Malian national convicted of kidnapping three Spanish aid workers last year .
Mauritanian authorities say Omar Sid-Ahmed Ould Hamma was extradited late Monday .
No further details were released .
Ould Hamma was sentenced in July to 12 years in prison for organizing the kidnapping of the aid workers and for handing them over to an al-Qaida-linked group in the region , al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb .
The three Spanish aid workers were seized last November on a road that links the Mauritanian capital , Nouakchott , with the city of Nouadhibou to the north .
One of the captives was released in March , but the other two are still being held in an unknown location in the vast Sahara desert .
The region stretches through Mauritania , Mali , Algeria and Niger , all countries struggling to contain Islamist militant groups .
Water levels are receding in India 's desert state of Rajasthan and relief workers there have stepped up efforts to rescue thousands of stranded villagers .
Officials say floods caused by monsoon rains killed at least 140 people in the past week , most of them in the district of Barmer .
More than 700,000 people have been stranded .
In western and southern India , more than 500 people have been killed and millions left homeless since the annual monsoon rains began in June .
Floods have also killed at least 31 people in neighboring Nepal in the past three days .
Soldiers have been using helicopters and rubber boats to rescue hundreds of people .
Officials say most of the deaths came in the worst-hit seven districts in the plains of western Nepal .
A leading American newspaper says police and security forces in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk have abducted hundreds of Arabs and Turkmens - sometimes with the knowledge of U.S. forces in the region .
Citing U.S. government documents and victims ' families , the Washington Post said the men have been abducted in raids led by Kurdish political parties and the detainees transferred secretly to prisons in Kurdish cities in northern Iraq .
The newspaper says it has obtained a confidential U.S. State Department cable addressed to the White House , the Defense Department and the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad that raises concern about the unlawful detentions and transfers .
Kirkuk is claimed by three Iraqi ethnic groups - Kurds , Arabs and Turkmens .
There has been a sharp rise of violence and tension in the oil-rich city in recent months
Russia 's natural gas firm Gazprom is seeking at least a threefold increase in the price for gas sold to Belarus next year .
The firm 's deputy chairman , Alexander Ryazanov , said Tuesday that the two sides will negotiate a price but stressed that the hike would be an economic decision , not a political one .
He said Belarus is the only member of the Commonwealth of Independent States not paying market prices for Russian gas .
Ryazanov said Belarus now pays about $ 47 for 1,000 cubic meters of gas .
The world price stands at about $ 230 per 1,000 cubic meters .
Earlier this year , Gazprom temporarily shut off gas supplies to Ukraine when Kiev initially refused to pay a sharp hike in prices .
Burma 's prime minister , General Thein Sein , will make official visits to Indonesia and Singapore later this month .
Burma 's state-owned New Light of Myanmar newspaper said the prime minister would make the visits in the near future .
It gave no further details of his plans .
However , Burmese officials said on condition of anonymity that General Thein Sein will depart Sunday for Indonesia .
Burma , Indonesia and Singapore all belong to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian nations , which held a summit in Thailand earlier this month .
During that meeting , Southeast Asian leaders encouraged Burma 's military government to release political detainees and open up next year 's election to more political parties .
The military has ruled Burma since 1962 .
The government has created a " roadmap to democracy , " but critics say it further strengthens the generals ' grip on power .
N.V. DSM said net income in the third quarter jumped 63 % as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program .
The Dutch chemical group said net income gained to 235 million guilders ( $ 113.2 million ) , or 6.70 guilders a share , from 144 million guilders , or 4.10 guilders a share , a year ago .
The 32 % state-owned DSM had eight million guilders of extraordinary charges in the latest quarter , mainly to reflect one-time losses in connection with the disposal of some operations .
The charges were offset in part by a gain from the sale of the company 's construction division .
Last year , DSM had 71 million guilders of extraordinary charges for the restructuring program and other transactions .
The earnings growth also was fueled by the company 's ability to cut net financing spending by half to around 15 million guilders .
Also , substantially lower Dutch corporate tax rates helped the company keep its tax outlay flat relative to earnings growth , the company added .
Sales , however , were little changed at 2.46 billion guilders , compared with 2.42 billion guilders .
Police in southern Kyrgyzstan say a clash between protesters and security guards outside a hotel in the city of Osh has injured four people .
Local authorities say security guards fired at the demonstrators with automatic weapons to disperse them .
The hotel is believed to be owned by prominent politician , Bayaman Erkinbayev , who survived an attempt on his life by unknown assailants six weeks ago .
Monday 's clash in Osh follows a similar incident at a market place in the border town of Kara-Suu Thursday , which Mr. Erkinbayev says belongs to his wife .
Kyrgyzstan , a mountainous Central Asian country , has been unstable since President Askar Akayev 's ouster in March .
Presidential elections to replace Mr. Akayev are scheduled for July 10 .
Mr. Erkinbayev is one of the candidates .
Two suspected Taleban members blew themselves up while strapping on explosives in southern Afghanistan .
The blast occurred Thursday near a market in an Afghan town near the Pakistani border .
Afghan officials say no one else was hurt in the explosion .
The blast came a day after a roadside bomb ripped through a U.S. military vehicle in the eastern province of Kunar , killing one soldier and wounding two others .
Suicide attacks have increased in Afghanistan in recent months , primarily in southern and eastern regions where U.S.-led coalition forces are hunting Taleban and al-Qaida fighters .
Trial began in Amman Monday , for an Iraqi woman charged with taking part in a triple bomb attack that killed 60 people in the Jordanian capital last year .
Sajida Mubarak al-Rishawi was captured when her explosives belt failed to detonate during the suicide attack at three hotels on November 9 .
Al-Rishawi , whose husband blew himself up in the bombings , is the only defendant in custody .
Jordanian-born terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the accused mastermind of the attacks , and others were charged in absentia .
Al-Zarqawi 's al-Qaida in Iraq group claimed responsibility for the attacks , which were aimed at foreign visitors but wound up killing mostly Jordanians .
Former world number one women 's tennis player Kim Clijsters of Belgium has beaten Russia 's Vera Douchevina at the Eastbourne , England grass court tennis tournament to claim her third tournament title this year .
Clijsters , seeded seventh , ousted Douchevina in straight sets , 7-5 , 6-0 .
Earlier this year , Clijsters won tournaments at Indian Wells , California , and Miami , Florida .
Douchevina was the 2002 junior champion at Wimbledon and had beaten top-seeded Amelie Mauresmo of France on her way to the finals .
The grass court tournament is a key warm-up for the Wimbledon championships , which start Monday in London .
Cuban state media say former President Fidel Castro will appear at a special session of parliament Saturday for the first time since 2006 , when he ceded power to his younger brother , Raul .
The reports said Wednesday that the Cuban National Assembly will debate several issues relating to the international situation , but did not elaborate .
The elder Castro said last week that he would ask for such a session to discuss his concerns that a nuclear war involving the United States and Iran will erupt in the near future .
The former president , who turns 84 later this month , has increased his public appearances in recent weeks following a long period of seclusion , resulting from an illness suffered in 2006 .
Fidel Castro underwent intestinal surgery that year and turned over power on a provisional basis to his brother , who formally assumed the presidency in February 2008 .
Turkey has detained 10 people with suspected links to the al-Qaida terrorist network .
Among those arrested was a lawyer who identified himself as the leader of the group in Turkey .
The official Anatolia news agency said Saturday the suspects were detained in simultaneous operations begun in November in the capital , Ankara , Istanbul and the western city of Izmir .
Turkey has suffered several attacks blamed on al-Qaida .
In November 2003 , more than 60 people were killed in bombings of two synagogues , the British Consulate and a bank office in Istanbul .
Pakistan and India have opened a fifth and final crossing point along the Line of Control in the divided Kashmir region to exchange earthquake relief aid .
Officials say permission to people to cross the de~facto border will be given at a later date .
Meanwhile , British military helicopters have joined the airlift of relief supplies from the capital of Pakistani Kashmir , Muzaffarabad , to remote villages devastated by October 8 quake .
Aid agencies and governments are trying to help quake survivors before the harsh Himalayan winter sets in .
Donors are to meet in Islamabad on Saturday .
President Pervez Musharraf has appealed for more than five billion dollars for quake relief and reconstruction .
He also says the disaster presents an opportunity for Pakistan and India to resolve their long-running dispute over Kashmir .
The Pakistani president said the final and most accurate death toll in the quake now stands at more than 73,000 .
The European Union has announced a $ 195 million humanitarian aid package for 10 African nations , including Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo .
EU Development Commissioner Louis Michel says millions of Africans remain vulnerable to " silent tsunamis " such as droughts , floods and armed conflicts .
Nearly $ 57 million has been earmarked to help displaced persons return to Sudan 's violence-plagued Darfur region , while $ 45 million will be spent to improve health care for women and children in the war weary Congo .
The rest of the money will fund aid efforts in Uganda , Burundi , Comoros , Liberia , Ivory Coast , Madagascar , Chad and Tanzania .
The money will be funneled through several humanitarian aid organizations , including the United Nations and Red Cross .
Oil prices hit new record highs Tuesday on heightened concerns about a potential Turkish incursion into northern Iraq to pursue Kurdish rebels .
The price of U.S. crude for November delivery settled up $ 1.48 at a record $ 87.61 per barrel .
Earlier , the price climbed as high as $ 88.20 .
Dealers say there is concern that an escalation of fighting along the Turkish-Iraqi border could affect oil production and pipelines in northern Iraq .
They say another factor driving up the prices is low supplies of oil in the United States and other consumer nations heading into winter .
In a statement Tuesday , the chief of powerful oil cartel OPEC , Abdullah Al-Badri , said the group does not favor higher prices , and insists the market is well-supplied .
One time I had to go to a funeral at 6 AM .
I should n't have been there .
I 'm not a mourning person .
American Andy Roddick , Czech Tomas Berdych and Spaniard David Ferrer have claimed the remaining qualifying spots for the Association of Tennis Professionals ( ATP ) World Tour Finals in London .
The players will be joining Spaniard Rafael Nadal , Swiss Roger Federer , Serbian Novak Djokovic , Scott Andy Murray and Swede Robin Soderling in the eight-man tournament that takes place from November 21 - 28 .
It will be the first appearance at the season finale for 2010 Wimbledon finalist Berdych .
The final spots were decided when Frenchman Gael Monfils scored a third-round victory over Spain 's Fernando Verdasco at the Paris Masters .
Verdasco needed to reach the final to have any hope of qualifying for the elite indoor hard-court tournament .
Russian Nikolay Davydenko defeated Argentine Juan Martin del Potro to claim the 2009 title .
Neither will be playing in this year 's edition .
The U.S. military says it has not found the pilot of an F-16 fighter jet that crashed in Iraq Monday .
Officials say the pilot was not at the crash site northwest of Baghdad when U.S. ground forces arrived .
The Air Force says it can not confirm whether the pilot is alive or dead .
Military officials say fighter aircraft spotted insurgents in the area of the crash site immediately after the warplane went down .
Air Force officials say the cause of the crash is being investigated but that it is unlikely the jet was shot down .
French authorities say violence flared for the 13th night in several cities despite night-time curfews , but the number of attacks dropped sharply .
Official say rampaging youths burned more than 600 vehicles across the country , about half the number set aflame night before .
Police say 204 people were arrested in the latest violence , which has been carried out mainly by Muslim youths of North African descent .
A state of emergency went into effect at midnight permitting such cities as Amiens , Orleans and the Paris suburb of Savigny-sur-Orge to declare curfews .
In the southern city of Lyon , officials shut the entire subway system after a firebomb exploded in one station late Tuesday .
No injuries were reported .
Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin Tuesday announced a number of measures to address what many French say are the main causes of the riots - youth unemployment , poor schools and discrimination .
Afghan police say Taliban militants attacked a police patrol in southern Helmand province overnight Saturday , killing four officers and wounding seven others .
The local police commander , Khair Mohammad Shuja , said the attack took place in the Gereshk district and that his forces detained wounded Taliban at the scene early Sunday .
News reports say two additional attacks took place in Afghanistan Sunday resulting in more police and civilian deaths but details are still emerging about those incidents .
Regulators say they will publish results of a special examination of the 19 largest U.S. banks on May 4 .
Worries that the large banks might not be strong enough to cope with a deepening recession prompted officials to institute a series of " stress tests . "
Experts looked over the banks ' assets and tried to figure out if they would need financial help if unemployment rose even higher or other economic conditions deteriorated .
Hong Kong police have released 944 protesters detained after sometimes violent demonstrations during last week 's World Trade Organization meetings .
More than 1000 anti-free trade protesters were arrested .
Most of them were South Korean farmers .
On Saturday , the demonstrators attacked riot police with bamboo poles , pipes and bottles as they tried to force their way into the conference hall where trade ministers were meeting .
Hong Kong police say they are charging 14 people with unlawful assembly .
Nearly 200 of the demonstrators had been released earlier .
South Korea 's Deputy Foreign Minister Lee Kyu-hyung arrived in Hong Kong Monday to express his government 's regret over the violence .
John Bolton appearing before Senate President Bush 's choice for U.S. ambassador to the United Nations is fielding tough questions at his confirmation hearing Monday .
In his opening statement , John Bolton pledged to work with other countries to make the United Nations stronger and more effective .
But Senate Democrats remain clearly opposed to Mr. Bolton , who has in the past condemned the world body and bluntly criticized a number of countries .
Democrats today raised questions about an incident in which Mr. Bolton pressured State Department intelligence analysts who challenged his assertion that Cuba possessed banned weapons .
In testimony , Mr. Bolton admitted that he tried to have the men moved to other jobs .
Senator Christopher Dodd called that " dreadfully wrong . "
Mr. Bolton currently serves as undersecretary of state for arms control .
His hearing continues through Wednesday .
Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair has called a national election for May 5 .
Mr. Blair made the announcement Tuesday after asking Queen Elizabeth for permission to dissolve parliament , in line with pre-election protocol .
The prime minister had been expected to call the election , with Britain enjoying a strong economy .
Several opinion polls published today show Mr. Blair 's Labor Party with a lead of two to five percentage points .
The main opposition parties hope to overcome that lead by highlighting Mr. Blair 's support for the war in Iraq , which remains largely unpopular in Britain .
The Labor Party enters the race with a commanding 161-seat majority in parliament .
Mr. Blair will be seeking his third term in office , following landslide victories in 1997 and 2001 .
South Korea 's Defense Ministry says the country will draw up plans by the end of June to withdraw its remaining troops from Iraq .
The ministry said Friday , that a plan on the termination of the mission will be sent to parliament .
Speaking in Seoul Thursday , visiting Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said South Korea can begin reducing its troops in northern Iraq next month , after Iraqi forces take over security in the Kurdish region .
South Korea sent nearly 3600 soldiers to Iraq in 2004 - the third-largest contingent after the United States and Britain .
Seoul has been gradually withdrawing its troops since then .
Mr. Maliki is the highest-ranking Iraqi official to visit South Korea since the Iraqi government took office last May .
During his three-day visit , he also urged South Korean companies to take part in his country 's postwar reconstruction projects .
China has confirmed that senior envoys from the United States , North Korea , and China met in Beijing this week in an effort to restart six-nation talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear program .
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman said Thursday Wednesday 's talks included the top U.S. envoy to the nuclear negotiations , Christopher Hill .
Further details were not provided .
Wednesday , North Korea 's official news agency confirmed leader Kim Jong il recently visited China , and held talks with Chinese President Hu Jintao .
It said during the talks Mr. Kim reaffirmed a commitment to rid the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons and pursue the six-party talks .
Pyongyang has demanded that the United States first lift economic sanctions against North Korea as a precondition for returning to the stalled talks .
Washington has rejected the demand .
Haiti 's government says it is seeking the arrest of ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on corruption charges .
Prime Minister Gerard Latortue announced Friday that formal instructions have been sent to the Justice Ministry for an arrest warrant to be issued as quickly as possible .
Mr. Aristide is in exile in South Africa .
Mr. Latortue made the remarks as the government opened a commission to investigate the charges against Mr. Aristide , who fled Haiti during an armed uprising in February .
Mr. Aristide 's Miami-based lawyer , Ira Kurzban , says the allegations are politically motivated and have no basis in fact .
Mr. Kurzban also tells VOA the charges are a public relations ploy to divert attention from a government he says was not elected and that is engaged in gross human rights violations .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and his Colombian counterpart , Alvaro Uribe , have held talks that included the diplomatic dispute between Colombia and Venezuela .
The two presidents met in a Colombian town to discuss the rift over Colombia 's capture of a FARC rebel leader in Caracas last month .
Brazil and Mexico have offered to mediate the rift , which began after Colombia acknowledged paying bounty hunters to capture Rodrigo Granda .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says Colombia violated his country 's sovereignty .
Last week , Venezuela froze trade relations with Colombia and recalled its ambassador from Bogota .
The Colombians say they plan to send Caracas proof that Colombian guerrillas are in Venezuelan territory .
Colombia is mired in a long-running civil war involving leftist rebels , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands dead each year .
Iraq 's defense ministry says security forces have arrested 93 suspects in an al-Qaida crackdown in the western Anbar province .
A defense ministry spokesman , Major General Mohammed al-Askari , said Thursday the arrests included 60 wanted men .
He said the detentions resulted from a series of raids launched late Tuesday that included help from police , the army , pro-government tribal forces and members of an anti-al-Qaida militia .
Earlier this week , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki named security as one of his top priorities after parliament approved cabinet ministers for his new government .
Meanwhile , Iraqi officials say gunmen using silencers have killed a brigadier general and wounded a police lieutenant colonel .
Both incidents occurred late Wednesday in Baghdad .
Russian lawmakers have voted to extend presidential term limits from four to six years .
The lower house of parliament overwhelmingly approved the measure during its first reading Friday .
It will need to pass through two more readings to change the constitution and become law .
The lower house has fast tracked the measure , which was announced by President Dmitri Medvedev last week .
Opponents say the measure could allow former Russian President Vladimir Putin , who now is Russia 's prime minister , to quickly seek to return to the presidency .
Mr. Medvedev has also proposed extending the term of the State Duma from four to five years .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb has exploded in northern Baghdad , killing at least seven people .
Authorities say the blast in the Kadhimiya district on Wednesday evening injured at least 14 others .
Bomb attacks and other violence Wednesday in Iraq killed about 50 people overall , many in the Baghdad area .
The attacks included a roadside bomb blast that killed five police officers in Samarra , north of the capital , while gunmen killed four policemen in an ambush near Kirkuk .
In other news , the U.S. military says a high-level al-Qaida leader , Mehmet Yilmaz , and his associate Mehmet Resit Isik were killed in a coalition raid Saturday south of Hawija .
A military spokesman described the men as dangerous and significant international terrorists .
The military also announced the combat-related deaths of two U.S. troops , one in eastern Baghdad Wednesday and the other in al-Anbar province on Tuesday .
A scientist watches a rocket carrying CARTOSAT-1 and HAMSAT on a screen just before the take-off at Sriharokota , India India has launched a rocket carrying two satellites , as part of the country 's ambitious space program that aims to send a probe to the moon .
The indigenous high-tech rocket , called the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle , or PSLAV blasted off from India 's spaceport of Sriharokota on the coast of the Bay of Bengal Thursday .
Among the two satellites , the heavier CARTOSAT-1 is designed to supply high-resolution pictures for more precise maps for a wide range of uses , including water resources management , town planning and environmental assessment .
The smaller HAMSAT communication satellite will provide high radio frequencies .
Indian space scientists say they plan to use a version of the PSLAV rocket for their moon mission which they hope to complete by 2008 .
Medical personnel in the stricken city of New Orleans are desperately trying to continue to aid patients amid depleting supplies and deteriorating conditions .
Hospitals are severely crippled in the flooding that has submerged most of the city .
Some patients , including babies , have been airlifted to other facilities .
The Associated Press says doctors from two hospitals have issued a plea for their facilities to be evacuated , saying conditions are dire and they are nearly out of food and emergency power .
In the streets of New Orleans , corpses are lying in the open and anxious refugees are pleading for water and food .
Field hospitals are overwhelmed with the sick .
U.S. officials say shots have been fired at emergency personnel and the security situation remains a problem .
The New Orleans mayor has issued a desperate SOS ( plea for help ) .
The government of Colombia says it will allow no more international missions seeking the release of hostages held by leftist rebels .
Foreign Minister Fernando Araujo said Monday that the failed mission led by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez left what he called " a bad taste " .
Araujo said Mr. Chavez and the leftist observers came to criticize the government and defend the guerrillas .
In late December Mr. Chavez assembled the observers to oversee the release of three hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC .
On New Year 's Eve , the release collapsed amid accusations from the FARC that Colombian military operations interfered with the release .
It was later learned that one of the hostages , a three-year-old boy , was not under the control of the FARC , but had been released in 2005 .
Senate Democrats are asking President Bush not to choose a hard-line conservative to replace retiring U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid said the president should nominate a candidate " whose views are within the broad constitutional mainstream , " as former President Ronald Reagan did when he nominated Ms. O'Connor .
She was approved by the Senate unanimously .
Senator Ted Kennedy said Democrats will oppose a candidate who , in his words , wants to roll back the freedoms of the American people .
Mr. Bush and Senate Democrats waged an extended political battle earlier this year over several of the president 's nominees for U.S. appeals court positions .
A Supreme Court nominee has to win a majority of Senate votes for confirmation .
Republicans control the Senate by a 55-to-45 margin .
U.S. and Iraqi officials say insurgents killed at least 13 people in several attacks across Iraq Monday .
The officials say two car bombs in western Baghdad killed five people each .
One of the cars exploded near a courthouse .
Insurgents killed at least two people in drive-by shootings outside the capital .
Elsewhere , the U.S. military in Iraq says a roadside bomb killed an American soldier southeast of Baghdad .
And the bodies of two Iraqi journalists were found Monday , one day after they were abducted .
Authorities also found the bodies of three police commandos kidnapped last week .
In a separate statement , the U.S. military says troops killed Ali Wali , an explosives expert and member of the Ansar al-Islam terrorist group , during a counterterrorist raid in ( the Mansur district of ) Baghdad on Saturday .
The human rights group Amnesty International has issued a critical report charging that Israel prevents Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip from receiving adequate water supplies .
The report , issued Tuesday , says Israel is pumping more than its share of water from an aquifer it controls in the West Bank .
According to Amnesty , on a per-capita basis , Israelis use four times as much water as Palestinians , whose water supply is far below the minimum recommended by the World Health Organization .
Israeli officials say the Amnesty report is biased and incorrect .
They contend water shortages result from the Palestinians ' failure to develop their own water infrastructure .
The scarcity of water in Israel and the Palestinian territories has led to steep price increases for all residents .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko met with leaders of parliamentary factions Tuesday in an effort to end a standoff that has prevented the formation of a new government .
Representatives of the country 's pro-Western coalition say talks scheduled for Monday were canceled after Viktor Yanukovych , the leader of the opposition pro-Russian Party of Regions failed to attend .
But a spokesman for the opposition group said the meeting was intended for experts , not top leaders .
The pro-Russian party has been blocking parliamentary proceedings for the past week by barring access to the podium .
Party members are dissatisified with the role they have been offered in the new government .
They contend that because they won more seats in parliament than any other group in the March elections , they deserve a bigger role .
The pro-Western coalition is made up of three parties that led the 2004 Orange Revolution and brought Mr. Yushchenko to power .
The husband of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto says he wants to improve relations between India and Pakistan .
Asif Ali Zardari , leader of the Pakistan People 's Party , says he wants to set aside the dispute over the Kashmir region so the two countries can focus on other issues , including boosting trade .
He made the remarks during an interview broadcast on India 's CNN-IBN television network Friday .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but is claimed in total by both .
The two countries have fought two wars over the disputed territory located in the Himalayan mountain valley .
Zardari says relations between India and Pakistan should not be held hostage to the Kashmir situation , and that both countries can agree to disagree on the issue .
Violence in Indian-controlled Kashmir has declined since India and Pakistan entered into a peace process in 2004 .
The United States Supreme Court has ruled that lawsuits are permitted against tobacco companies who allegedly use deceptive tactics to advertise " light " brand cigarettes .
By a narrow 5-4 vote Monday , the justices said smokers may use state consumer protection laws to sue companies for the way they promote " low tar " or " light " cigarettes .
The case stems from a class action lawsuit from three residents in the northeastern state of Maine who alleged manufacturers hid information that " light " cigarettes are as dangerous as regular ones .
Tobacco companies argued that a federal cigarette-labeling law does not allow states to regulate any aspect of cigarette advertising involving smoking and health .
The high court decision Monday is a blow to Altria Group 's Philip Morris unit and other tobacco companies , who face scores of similar lawsuits across the country .
President Bush said nations around the world need to stand with moderate reformers in the MIddle East .
He said the world must seek stability in the region through the establishment of free and just societies .
Mr. Bush also pledged to continue to support the government of Iraq in its struggle with terrorists .
In addition , the president said Iran must abandon what he called its ambition for nuclear weapons .
He said the United States is working for a diplomatic solution to the issue , and said the U.S. does not oppose a truly peaceful nuclear program for Iran .
Brazilian police have detained two men in connection with the recent theft of nearly $ 70 million from a bank vault in one of the largest bank robberies in history .
Authorities say the men were detained near the southeastern city of Belo Horizonte Wednesday , after police stopped their truck loaded with vehicles that were purchased in cash Saturday from a car dealership .
Officials say they also found a fraction of the stolen money hidden in one of the vehicles .
Police say Saturday 's daring theft at a central bank branch in the northeastern city of Fortaleza was carried out by 10 to 20 people taking three months to dig an 80-meter tunnel from a house where they had set up a phony landscaping company .
The thieves left behind tools used to dig the tunnel and get through the vault 's one-meter thick concrete and steel floor .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say at least 21 Iraqis have been killed in three attacks north of Baghdad .
In the largest attack , authorities say gunmen in two vehicles opened fire on buses taking Iraqis to work at a U.S. facility in Tikrit , killing 17 civilians and wounding 13 others .
Later , officials say a car bomb killed at least three Iraqi National Guardsmen north of Tikrit .
Separately , an Iraqi soldier was killed when a patrol came under attack in Samarra .
In other developments , the U.S. military says its engineers have begun drafting a reconstruction plan for the city of Fallujah .
Much of the flashpoint city west of Baghdad was devastated last month in fighting between insurgents and U.S. forces .
Officials say engineers will first move to restore water and electricity , before rebuilding hospitals , schools and solid waste facilities .
U.S. and Iraqi forces are continuing a major security operation in restive al-Anbar province , west of Baghdad .
American military officials say strict security measures were imposed Sunday on several cities along the Euphrates River , including Ramadi , where a curfew was ordered .
In another development , the Indonesian foreign ministry confirmed Monday that kidnappers in Iraq have freed two Indonesian journalists who were abducted last week .
Meanwhile , Iraqi officials in the northern city of Mosul say an anchorwoman for a regional television station was abducted at gunpoint late Sunday .
A videotape said to come from al-Qaida has been seen on al-Jazeera television .
The tape carries a message in the name of the terrorist group 's No. 2 leader , Ayman al-Zawahiri , denouncing U.S. calls for reform in the Muslim world .
U.S. Government experts are drawing a more complete picture of hurricane damage to the southern United States .
The Commerce Department said Friday , Hurricane Katrina caused $ 100 billion in damage that will not be covered by insurance .
Higher energy prices sparked by hurricanes also helped to depress one measure of consumer spending by about one percent - the steepest drop since the terror attacks in 2001 .
Experts track consumer spending because consumer demand drives most U.S. economic activity .
A separate report from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office on Thursday says the hurricanes will temporarily cut U.S. economic growth by about 0.5 percent .
That is less than first thought , and the CBO says the reduction will probably be offset by a surge of rebuilding activity by early next year .
Iran says it stands by its U.N. commitments not to use violence against another country , amid international criticism over the Iranian president 's call for Israel 's destruction .
The foreign ministry said Saturday Iran has never resorted to , nor threatened to resort to force against another country .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad caused an international outcry on Wednesday by saying Israel should be " wiped off the map . "
He stood by those comments Friday during massive anti-Israeli protests in Tehran .
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said Palestinians have recognized Israel 's right to exist .
He said what the international community should be discussing is adding a Palestinian state to the map , not wiping Israel from it .
Friday , the U.N. Security Council condemned the Iranian president 's remarks .
Until recently , only two autocratic presidents had ruled Gabon since its independence from France in 1960 .
The recent president of Gabon , El Hadj Omar BONGO Ondimba - one of the longest-serving heads of state in the world - had dominated the country 's political scene for four decades .
President BONGO introduced a nominal multiparty system and a new constitution in the early 1990s .
However , allegations of electoral fraud during local elections in 2002 - 03 and the presidential elections in 2005 exposed the weaknesses of formal political structures in Gabon .
President BONGO died in June 2009 .
New elections in August 2009 brought Ali Ben BONGO , son of the former president , to power .
Despite political conditions , a small population , abundant natural resources , and considerable foreign support have helped make Gabon one of the more prosperous and stable African countries .
In January 2010 , Gabon assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2010 - 11 term .
The economy of Saint Barthelemy is based upon high-end tourism and duty-free luxury commerce , serving visitors primarily from North America .
The luxury hotels and villas host 70,000 visitors each year with another 130,000 arriving by boat .
The relative isolation and high cost of living inhibits mass tourism .
The construction and public sectors also enjoy significant investment in support of tourism .
With limited fresh water resources , all food must be imported , as must all energy resources and most manufactured goods .
Employment is strong and attracts labor from Brazil and Portugal .
The United States and Britain have temporarily closed their diplomatic offices in Lagos , Nigeria , citing a security issue .
A public affairs officer , Claudia Annyaso , at the U.S. Embassy in Abuja told VOA Friday that the U.S. consulate in Lagos has been close because of an security issue , which was being addressed by U.S. and Nigerian officials .
The officer would not speculate on when the consulate would reopen , and had no further information on the security situation .
British officials say they also have closed their High Commission offices in Lagos .
In the past , al-Qaida leader Osama Bin Laden has cited Nigeria as a candidate for what he called " liberation . "
Nigeria is a major petroleum producer and Africa 's most populous nation .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is offering to hold an international summit on global finance reform by early December .
The secretary-general Saturday agreed to host the gathering at the U.N. headquarters in the northeastern U.S. state of New York .
Mr. Ban says French President Nicolas Sarkozy , who holds the rotating EU presidency , has agreed to the gathering .
The U.N. chief says it is important to work quickly to reform the global financial system .
In September , President Sarkozy told the U.N. General Assembly the international community has a political and moral responsibility to act quickly .
Mr. Sarkozy called for the creation of global institutions to regulate and rebuild the financial system .
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is calling on the U.S. to abandon ties to President Pervez Musharraf .
During an appearance on Voice of America , Mr. Sharif said Pakistan was going through a major security and political crisis and that President Musharraf should be excluded from the national government .
Mr. Sharif also said the government has done nothing to improve security after the December 27 assassination of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto .
He criticized his own security detail , saying he had not been given a bullet and bomb-proof vehicle .
Mr. Sharif has accused President Musharraf of ordering anti-terror operations that have left the country " drowned in blood . "
The former Pakistani prime minister has been campaigning for his Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party ahead of the February 18 parliamentary elections .
Mr. Sharif has been barred from running .
He was deposed by President Musharraf in coup in 1999 .
Officials say the clinic in Mexico where Coretta Scott King died has been shut down .
The health department in Mexico 's Baja California state announced the closure of the Hospital Santa Monica Thursday because it was performing some procedures without authorization .
The statement said the alternative-medicine clinic , located some 26 kilometers south of San Diego , was performing surgeries , X-rays and unconventional treatments without permission .
It also said unknown substances were found there .
A spokesman for the clinic told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution newspaper Friday that Mrs. King was only receiving nutrition and had not yet started treatments .
She checked into the clinic January 26 , suffering from ovarian cancer and the effects of a stroke and heart attack sustained last year .
Top finance officials of the Group of Eight industrialized nations meet Friday in London in an effort to work out an agreement on debt relief for the world 's poorest countries .
The finance ministers will try to settle differences over the issue before a G8 summit next month in Scotland .
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair said earlier this week after meeting in Washington that they were close to completing a proposal to cancel all debt for the world 's poorest countries .
The New York Times Friday quotes an unidentified senior official in Washington as saying an agreement has been reached .
The report says the plan would free 18 mostly African countries from their entire debt obligation .
However , other G8 countries are sharply divided on how to finance debt relief .
North Korea has rejected a recent United Nations resolution that criticized Pyongyang 's human rights record .
North Korea 's foreign ministry said the report was politically motivated and baseless .
Last week , the 53-country U.N. Human Rights Commission passed a resolution condemning what it called " systematic " violations of human rights in North Korea .
The vote was 30 to nine .
The U.S. State Department says North Korea remains one of the most repressive countries in the world , where an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 people are held in detention camps for political reasons .
It says defectors report many prisoners have died from torture , starvation , disease or exposure .
The U.S. military says a roadside bomb has killed an American soldier in eastern Afghanistan .
The blast in Paktika province wounded another U.S. service member and an Afghan soldier .
In neighboring Zabul province , suspected Taleban insurgents killed an Afghan intelligence officer Thursday .
And in Helmand province , a Muslim cleric was wounded by unidentified gunmen riding a motorcycle .
A purported Taleban spokesman claimed responsibility for those two attacks .
Meanwhile , the United States and Afghanistan agreed in principle to transfer most Afghans in U.S. custody to the Afghan government .
A spokesman for Afghan President Hamid Karzai says prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention center and U.S. facilities in Afghanistan will be among those handed over .
Musician Ted Onulak is passionate about his music .
His playing and singing style are deeply rooted in the blues , and he lists such jazz greats as Charlie Parker and John Lee Hooker as his musical influences .
But his current career only came about when fate intervened in his life .
VOA 's Tetiana Koprowicz recently caught up with him and has more on how this former diplomat turned his loss of eyesight into inspiration .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Bernie Mac says he intends to retire from stand-up comedy after 30 years .
The 49-year-old comic - real name Bernard McCullogh - made the announcement Monday March 19 on David Letterman 's U.S. television talk show .
He says the move will allow him to continue producing and acting in films , while spending more time at home .
Later this year , he 'll release his final performance film , The Whole Truth , Nothing But The Truth , So Help Me Mac .
Bernie Mac 's next film , the sports drama Pride , opens March 23 in the United States .
Lebanese troops have unearthed the remains of 25 bodies from a mass grave in an eastern town near the former headquarters of Syrian intelligence in Lebanon .
Officials Saturday said the bodies were found in the Bekaa Valley town of Anjar .
They say the bodies , one of which was dressed in a Lebanese military uniform , have been buried for years .
The Syrian headquarters was notorious for the arrest and torture of Lebanese prisoners during its nearly three-decade presence in Lebanon .
Authorized by the Arab League , Syria first moved troops into Lebanon in 1976 to try to maintain order one year after the outbreak of the country 's devastating 15-year civil war .
Damascus was forced to withdraw its troops earlier this year under intense domestic and international pressure after senior Syrian officials were implicated in the murder of former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri .
Syria has denied any role in the killing .
Several Burmese government departments reportedly are preparing to move from Rangoon to a more secure location , as protection against what leaders of the military junta fear might be a possible U.S. invasion .
News reports from the Burmese capital quote diplomatic analysts as saying the Ministries of Agriculture , Defense , Energy and Information will relocate to Pyinmana , just over 150 kilometers north of Rangoon , within a few months .
A series of major construction projects in the area already has begun , with office buildings , bunkers , hospitals , underground tunnels and military airstrips reportedly nearing completion .
Pyinmana , in central Burma , was the military headquarters of Burma 's resistance movement against occupying Japanese forces during World War II , and the rugged area also served as a hideout for Communist insurgents .
Some analysts say the ruling generals fear an Iraq-style invasion by the United States and want a defensible fallback position .
Ecuador is substantially dependent on its petroleum resources , which have accounted for more than half of the country 's export earnings and approximately one-third of public sector revenues in recent years .
In 1999 / 2000 , Ecuador suffered a severe economic crisis , with GDP contracting by 5.3 % .
Poverty increased significantly , the banking system collapsed , and Ecuador defaulted on its external debt .
In March 2000 , the Congress approved a series of structural reforms that also provided for the adoption of the US dollar as legal tender .
Dollarization stabilized the economy , and positive growth returned in the years that followed , helped by high oil prices , remittances , and increased non-traditional exports .
From 2002 - 06 the economy grew an average of 5.2 % per year , the highest five-year average in 25 years .
After moderate growth in 2007 , the economy reached a growth rate of 7.2 % in 2008 , in large part due to high global petroleum prices and increased public sector investment .
President Rafael CORREA , who took office in January 2007 , defaulted in December 2008 on Ecuador 's sovereign debt , which , with a total face value of approximately US $ 3.2 billion , represented about 80 % of Ecuador 's private external debt .
In May 2009 , Ecuador bought back 91 % of its " defaulted " bonds via an international auction .
Economic policies under the CORREA administration - including an announcement in late 2009 of its intention to terminate 13 bilateral investment treaties , including one with the United States - have generated economic uncertainty and discouraged private investment .
The Ecuadorian economy contracted 0.4 % in 2009 due to the global financial crisis and to the sharp decline in world oil prices and remittance flows .
Growth picked up to a 3.7 % rate in 2010 , according to Ecuadorian government estimates .
One day after Senator Barack Obama picked up the endorsement of a key Democrat , U.S. media reports say Obama has gained as many as eight delegates .
The reports conflict on how many moved from Senator John Edwards , who endorsed Obama May 14 .
On Thursday , the Democratic Party frontrunner lashed out at the White House , following comments by President Bush in Israel .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has more .
The third smallest state in Europe ( after the Holy See and Monaco ) , San Marino also claims to be the world 's oldest republic .
According to tradition , it was founded by a Christian stonemason named Marinus in A.D. 301 .
San Marino 's foreign policy is aligned with that of the European Union , although it is not a member ; social and political trends in the republic track closely with those of its larger neighbor , Italy .
Military officials in the Philippines say the death toll from a fuel truck explosion in the country 's south has risen to 50 , with more than 40 others injured .
The truck exploded Friday on a road in Zamoanga del Sur province , destroying the tanker , as well as a passenger bus on the opposite side of the road .
Soldiers are still recovering bodies .
There are disagreements as to what the truck was carrying .
Some reports say it was hauling compressed carbon dioxide , while others say it was carrying liquified petroleum gas .
Australian scientists have unveiled fossils of what they say are the largest dinosaurs ever found in Australia .
Fossilized bones of two titanosaurs went on display Thursday at the Queensland Museum in the eastern city of Brisbane .
The 25-meter-long dinosaurs , nicknamed Cooper and George , were found by ranchers in 2005 and 2006 , near the town of Eromanga , in southwest Queensland state .
The discoveries were kept secret until now to allow scientists to dig them up and study them .
A single leg bone from one of the titanosaurs measures 1.5 meters long , and weighs 100 kilograms .
The titanosaurs were among the largest and heaviest prehistoric animals ever to roam the Earth , with extremely long necks and tails .
The titanosaurs were plant-eating dinosaurs , called sauropods , that lived more than 100 million years ago .
Colombia has rejected asylum requests by former Venezuelan military officers accused of plotting a 2002 coup against Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
A Colombian government official said Tuesday the requests for refugee status had been denied but also said the decisions are being appealed .
Venezuelan former Admiral Hector Ramirez told Colombian television Tuesday that he and at least seven other former top officers face persecution if they go back to Venezuela .
The group has been in Colombia since late last year .
Mr. Ramirez was named defense minister during the two-day long coup which temporarily deposed President Chavez .
Venezuelan business leader Pedro Carmona , who served as president during the coup , has been granted asylum by Colombia .
Military officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say rebel fighters have attacked an army camp in the eastern Ituri region .
There were few details about Saturday night 's raid , but army officials said at least two militia fighters were killed in gunbattles .
Rebel groups regularly clash with military forces in the DRC .
The United Nations says the violence has caused some 170,000 Congolese to flee their homes in recent months .
Some 17,000 U.N. peacekeepers are stationed in Congo to secure the country for nationwide elections July 30 .
On Friday , the head of the notorious Mai Mai militia surrendered to U.N. forces and pledged to disarm his troops .
Officials said it was a major victory for stabilizing the country .
Lindsay Lohan has reportedly checked into a Utah rehabilitation center .
CBS News reports the 21-year-old actress has checked into the Cirque Lodge drug and alcohol treatment center in Sundance , Utah .
It would be her third stint in rehab , following two stays at Wonderland and Promises in the Los Angeles area .
Town and Country Magazine recently named Cirque Lodge as one of the nation 's top substance abuse treatment facilities .
The New York Post reported that Lohan had on August 3 gone to her mother 's home on Long Island .
The exact day of her reported check-in to Cirque Lodge is not known .
Lohan 's representatives did not comment on her whereabouts .
She is due in court in Santa Monica , CA on August 24 , when she faces charges from her July 24 arrest for suspicion of driving under the influence and driving on a suspended license .
She also faces previous DUI-related charges .
The head of the United Nations mission in Kosovo is in Belgrade for two days of talks with top Serbian officials .
U.N. representative Soren Jessen-Petersen met Sunday with Serbia-Montenegro 's Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic .
A statement later issued by Mr. Draskovic 's office said that he had demanded protection for the province 's Serb minority .
On Monday , Mr. Jessen-Petersen is scheduled to meet with Serbian President Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica .
Talks on the province 's future between Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian-led government and Serbian leaders are due to begin later this year .
Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian majority wants independence , while its Serb minority wants the province to remain part of Serbia .
The U.N. has been administering the area since 1999 .
NATO peacekeepers in Bosnia-Herzegovina have raided a business owned by the son-in-law of fugitive Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic .
Alliance officials say the raid on a photography and electronics business in Pale run by Branislav Jovicevic was aimed at gaining additional information about the supply network assisting Mr. Karadzic and was aimed at disrupting it .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has indicted Mr. Karadzic for his role in attacks on civilians during the Bosnian conflict of the 1990s .
He is believed to be hiding in Bosnia or in neighboring Montenegro .
In Bangladesh , the death toll from flooding and mudslides unleashed by monsoon rains reached nearly 100 on Monday .
Bangladeshi officials say worst hit was the southeastern port city of Chittagong , where 84 people died after many hillside homes were swept away or collapsed under tons of mud .
Telephone lines to the rest of Bangladesh are down , and shops and schools in Chittagong are closed .
Another 15 people were reported killed in other parts of the country by thunderstorms and lightning .
Many people are missing , and the death toll is expected to rise as rescue workers search through rubble .
Rescue efforts are being hampered by damaged roads and flooding .
June marks the beginning of the annual monsoon season in South Asia which lasts until mid-September .
The first group of United Nations peacekeepers has left Burundi as part of a gradual 12-month withdrawal plan from the central African country .
U.N. officials say some 170 Mozambican peacekeepers departed Saturday from an airport in the capital , Bujumbura .
The United Nations plans to reduce its 5,500-member peacekeeping force in Burundi by 40 percent by April .
Next to leave will be the Kenyans , followed by the Ethiopians and other nationalities which make up the force .
U.N. peacekeepers have been in Burundi since 2004 , when the government and rebels signed an agreement ending their 12-year civil war .
Some 300,000 people died in the long ethnic conflict between Hutu rebels and the politically-dominant Tutsis .
Two Lebanese soldiers were killed in fighting , as the army continues its assault against Islamic militants holed up inside a Palestinian refugee camp .
Army officials say the soldiers were killed Wednesday inside the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
More than 130 people - including 63 soldiers and at least 20 civilians - have been killed since fighting between Lebanese troops and the militant group Fatah al-Islam broke out at the camp more than three weeks ago .
Tens of thousands of Palestinian refugees managed to flee the area , but thousands more remain inside .
In related news , the U.S.-based rights group Human Rights Watch has accused the Lebanese army of physically abusing and illegally detaining civilians fleeing the camp .
Lebanese officials would not comment on the allegations .
At least 30 people were killed in a theater fire that broke out Monday night in the Egyptian town of Beni Suef , about 100 kilometers south of Cairo .
At least 45 were injured .
Candles being used by performers came into contact with the stage curtains during a play , panicking the crowd of about 1000 people who fled the theater .
Some of the victims are believed to have been trampled underfoot .
Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a close with independence in 1975 .
Large-scale emigration , economic dependence on South Africa , a severe drought , and a prolonged civil war hindered the country 's development until the mid 1990s .
The ruling Front for the Liberation of Mozambique ( Frelimo ) party formally abandoned Marxism in 1989 , and a new constitution the following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market economy .
A UN-negotiated peace agreement between Frelimo and rebel Mozambique National Resistance ( Renamo ) forces ended the fighting in 1992 .
In December 2004 , Mozambique underwent a delicate transition as Joaquim CHISSANO stepped down after 18 years in office .
His elected successor , Armando Emilio GUEBUZA , promised to continue the sound economic policies that have encouraged foreign investment .
President GUEBUZA was reelected to a second term in October 2009 .
However , the elections were flawed by voter fraud , questionable disqualification of candidates , and Frelimo use of government resources during the campaign .
As a result , Freedom House removed Mozambique from its list of electoral democracies .
Tension has flared on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan after the two sides exchanged artillery and machine-gun fire .
There were no confirmed reports of casualties in the clash that took place late Monday in the North Waziristan tribal region .
The clash came a day after mortar rounds fired from the Afghan side of the border killed a Pakistani soldier and wounded three others in the same mountainous border area .
Pakistani military officials say they are still unclear about who was responsible for the firing from the Afghan side of the border .
On Monday , a Pakistani spokesman said he is certain the shelling did not come from American positions , but is asking for a U.S. investigation because coalition forces are responsible for security along the Afghan border .
Pakistani officials say security forces and helicopter gunships have killed at least 21 suspected militants in the northwestern tribal region of Orakzai .
They say troops and aircraft attacked militant compounds in the area on Wednesday , destroying a training center , a bunker and an ammunition dump .
In the past year Pakistani forces have been carrying out anti-Taliban offensives in the country 's northwestern tribal regions , particularly South Waziristan .
U.S. missile strikes in the tribal areas are also targeting Taliban and al-Qaida commanders , often in the North Waziristan region .
Militants based in the region have retaliated by launching gun and bomb attacks against government workers , police and civilians in Pakistan 's cities .
A series of bombings has killed at least 14 people in Baghdad , ahead of the highly anticipated transfer of operational command of Iraq 's armed forces from the U.S.-led coalition to Iraqi authorities .
Officials say more than 30 others were wounded in suicide car bombings and roadside bomb blasts across the city Thursday .
The deadliest attack took place in the Karrada neighborhood , where a suicide bomber detonated his explosives-filled car at the entrance of a gas station for police vehicles .
At least 10 people died and 17 others were wounded in that attack .
Meanwhile , senior Iraqi military officials are preparing for the country 's prime minister to take control of the armed forces at a ceremony that was originally scheduled five days ago .
Separately , the Iraqi government said 27 " terrorists " convicted of killings and rapes were executed Wednesday .
Iraqi authorities say a roadside bomb has killed a police general and his driver near the northern city of Kirkuk .
The victim was Brigadier General Hatim Khalaf , head of the Kirkuk police operations room .
Also in northern Iraq , Kurdish officials say search teams have located a small plane that crashed three days ago near Sulaimaniyah .
They say all six people on board , including at least three German businessmen , were killed .
The developments come a day after roadside bomb attacks in Baghdad killed an American soldier and three Iraqi policemen .
Separately , the U.S. military said Saturday it had freed more than 400 male Iraqi prisoners after an Iraqi-led review board recommended their release .
A STATE Official carrying off the Dome of the Capitol met the Ghost of his predecessor , who had come out of his political grave to warn him that God saw him .
As the place of meeting was lonely and the time midnight , the State Official set down the Dome of the Capitol , and commanded the supposed traveller to throw up his hands .
The
Ghost replied that he had not eaten them , and while he was explaining the situation another State Official silently added the dome to his own collection .
The Internet site of a South Korean stem cell center overloaded Tuesday as it began accepting applications from people with Parkinson 's disease and spinal cord injuries who want to participate in research .
An official at the World Stem Cell Hub said the Web site slowed to a crawl , because there were too many access attempts for about three hours .
The official said normal operation resumed later .
He said computer experts were on standby in case of sabotage by those who oppose stem cell research and cloning technology .
The South Korean stem cell bank opened October 19 with the aim of providing scientists around the world with embryonic stem cells .
These cells are seen as a potential source of replacement tissue for people with a variety of ailments .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has endorsed Nicaraguan presidential candidate Daniel Ortega to win his country 's November election .
Both men appeared on President Chavez 's weekly television broadcast Sunday , where Mr. Chavez told Ortega , " I hope you win . "
The endorsement comes on the heels of a recommendation from the U.S. State Department last week that Nicaraguans reject not only Ortega , but also former Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman , who is also a presidential candidate .
A Department spokesman , Sean McCormack , said that both men are " discredited figures from Nicaragua 's past . "
Ortega led the leftist Sandanista movement against Contra rebels supported by Washington in the 1980s .
The State Department says the U.S. ambassador in Nicaragua is meeting with all parties that have expressed an interest in a " democratic electoral process . "
An attempt to address America 's weight problem has run into trouble in New York .
Health officials are trying to increase the city 's consumption of fruits and vegetables , especially in less affluent neighborhoods where obesity rates are higher .
Given that more than half of New York adults are overweight or obese - and an estimated 700,000 suffer from diabetes - the argument is not over the need for action .
Instead , the issue is the way the city has gone about it .
Paige Kollock has more .
Iraqi officials say two car bombs in the Shi'ite holy city of Karbala have killed at least five people and wounded about 55 .
Police say the first bomb exploded Monday near the Imam Hussein shrine , a holy site for Shi'ite Muslims .
Officials say a second blast went off minutes later in the vicinity , near a provincial office .
Authorities in the western Indian state of Maharashtra say a passenger bus has plunged into a ravine , killing 21 people and injuring 40 others .
The authorities say the accident happened in early afternoon Saturday near Vani town .
They say the injured were transferred to local hospitals and that an investigation is under way .
The accident comes one day after 53 people were killed when an overcrowded bus plunged into a deep gorge in Indian Kashmir .
Also Saturday , in an unrelated development , a moderate earthquake struck near India 's Andaman Islands .
The Hong Kong Observatory and the Indian Meteorological Department say the quake measured 5.8 on the Richter scale and was centered west of the islands .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
Rebel fighters with the Shan State National Army in Burma have joined forces and merged with the Shan State Army , in an effort to reinvigorate their five-decade struggle for independence against Burma 's military government .
The merger effectively breaks a 10-year cease-fire between the Shan State National Army and Rangoon .
Military leaders from the rebel groups agreed to join forces at a ceremony Saturday in Doi Talaeng , a remote Shan State Army base along the Burma-Thailand border .
They called on ethnic Shan people in Burma and overseas to stand united and fight the military .
There was no immediate public comment from the government in Rangoon .
A United Nations worker from Burma was among the three people killed by Saturday 's bombing at an Internet cafe in Kabul , Afghanistan .
U.N. officials said Sunday the victim worked for the U.N. Office of Project Services , but did not release his name .
The man had been living at a guest house connected to the Internet cafe .
The other two men killed were Afghans , and authorities in Kabul suspect one of them was a suicide bomber .
At least five other people were wounded .
The blast destroyed the cafe , which was frequented by foreigners .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad says an Israeli airstrike in the Gaza strip has killed three of its members , including a top commander .
The Israeli army confirmed the strike on a vehicle carrying the militants Thursday in Gaza City .
Earlier Thursday in the southern Gaza Strip , Palestinian medical officials said Israeli forces killed a Hamas militant during a military operation .
The Israeli army said the operation was aimed at preventing terrorist threats .
The area is a source for rocket fire into Israel .
In the occupied West Bank , the Israeli military said a Palestinian man tried to stab a soldier near a Jewish settlement .
It said another soldier hit the attacker in the head , seriously injuring him .
Palestinian witnesses say that during a scuffle an Israeli soldier shot the man , who later died of his wounds .
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has offered protection to the leader of the Lord 's Resistance Army , if the rebel chief agrees to " peacefully end terrorism . "
In a statement , Mr. Museveni promised the safety of Joseph Kony if his rebel group stops fighting by the end of July .
The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Kony and other members of the LRA..
LRA rebels are accused of kidnapping thousands of children and using them as fighters or sex slaves .
Ugandan troops have been fighting the rebels for more than 20 years , forcing the rebels to set up bases in southern Sudan and eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
Some 1.6 million Ugandans have abandoned their homes because of the fighting .
The United Nations has called the situation in northern Uganda a forgotten humanitarian crisis .
A top Democratic lawmaker has called on President Bush to fill the new vacancy on the Supreme Court with a moderate , mainstream justice .
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada charged that President Bush 's far-right allies are spending millions of dollars to pressure him to appoint an extreme conservative .
In the Democratic party 's weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Reid said Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , who announced her retirement last week , was moderate and balanced the court .
He called for her replacement to be someone who will build on consensus and unite the country .
The Senate must approve Mr. Bush 's pick .
Senator Reid also called for the perpetrators of the London bombings to be brought to justice , and called for increased efforts in protecting the United States .
The rising cost of food is becoming a big concern around the world .
Many countries from Ghana to Mexico have started reducing tariffs and taxes on food .
And the World Food Program has requested more than $ 700 million from the international community to help meet basic food needs in developing countries .
But even consumers in developed nations are having trouble with the high cost of food .
Experts say a few simple tips can help consumers anyplace maximize the money they spend on food .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
The head of India 's ruling Congress Party , Sonia Gandhi , has begun her bid to return to parliament in her constituency in northern India , just days after she quit her seat in the legislature .
Gandhi stepped down as a member of the lower house and head of the government 's National Advisory Council last week , following charges that she violated the constitution by holding two paid positions .
Gandhi told thousands of cheering supporters in the city of Rae Bareli she has to give a fitting response to people who brought the charges against her , and that fitting reply will be her re-election .
By-election dates are yet to be announced , but she is expected to easily win back the seat .
The Italian-born Gandhi is the widow of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi , whose mother and grandfather also were prime ministers .
China 's foreign ministry is urging its citizens not travel to Iraq in the wake of the recent kidnapping of eight Chinese nationals by Iraqi insurgents .
Arab TV channel Al-Jazeera broadcast a video showing the hostages Tuesday in which their abductors threatened to kill the men unless China " clarifies its role in Iraq . "
Chinese officials say the men are ordinary construction workers who went to Iraq on their own initiative .
China 's foreign ministry says it is deeply concerned by the kidnapping , noting China has always shown friendship , sympathy and support towards the Iraqi people .
Last April seven Chinese construction workers from Fujian province were kidnapped in Fallujah , but later released unharmed .
Three Venezuelan opposition parties , including major opposition party , Democratic Action , have pulled out of Sunday 's parliamentary elections , saying the electoral council is biased .
Democratic Action leader Henry Ramos Tuesday said election officials favor President Hugo Chavez and can not be trusted to provide a fair vote .
He denied accusations that the opposition is acting in the interests of the U.S. government .
The Project Venezuela and Copei parties also announced their withdrawal from the elections .
Opposition leaders have proposed postponing the vote until they can be assured of a free and fair election .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel has denied the accusations and insists the elections will be fair .
Electoral officials said this week they will remove fingerprinting machines at polling stations , after opposition leaders suggested they could compromise voter privacy .
Israel has re-opened a key Gaza border crossing , ahead of an Israeli-Palestinian summit set for Tuesday in Egypt .
The Israeli army closed the Karni crossing , the main crossing for goods entering and leaving the Gaza Strip , after a militant attack there killed six Israeli civilians last month .
Hundreds of Palestinian trucks carrying produce and fresh-cut flowers were lined up at the crossing Monday awaiting the opening .
Last week , Israel re-opened the Gaza-Egypt border crossing at Rafah , which was closed after another militant attack killed five Israeli soldiers in December .
Meanwhile , Israeli and Palestinian officials met Monday to make final arrangements for the summit in the Egyptian resort of Sharm al-Sheikh .
Egyptian host President Hosni Mubarak and Jordan 's King Abdullah are also set to attend .
The U.S. space agency NASA has displayed the first images from a new satellite that studies the sun .
Researchers released the images and short video clips Wednesday in Washington .
Scientists say they have already learned new things from the Solar Dynamics Observatory but they have yet to release any findings .
The satellite was launched February 11 .
NASA says the new images show never-before-seen details of material streaming outward and away from sunspots .
The new satellite is sending back images that have 10 times better resolution than high-definition television .
The satellite will also examine the sun 's magnetic field and study the role the sun plays in Earth 's atmosphere and climate .
Cancun , Mexico , is hosting both international leaders and vacationing college students this week , as the city slowly recovers from a brutal pounding by Hurricane Wilma .
City officials say only about half of Cancun 's 27,000 hotel rooms are open this year , after Wilma battered the resort city last October .
Winds reached well past 200 kilometers per hour .
Hotel owners say the recovery is going slowly , as they try to meet demands to build stronger structures that can withstand another such storm .
Meanwhile , the city has refurbished many beaches , re-planted vegetation , and repaired bike paths and walkways .
Local residents say the student crowds are smaller this year , but still plenty have come , determined to carry on Cancun 's tradition of spring-break revelry .
A NIGHTINGALE , sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to his wont , was seen by a Hawk who , being in need of food , swooped down and seized him .
The Nightingale , about to lose his life , earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go , saying that he was not big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who , if he wanted food , ought to pursue the larger birds .
The Hawk , interrupting him , said : " I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let go food ready in my hand , for the sake of pursuing birds which are not yet even within sight . "
Indonesian health authorities said Monday an elderly woman who died overnight is the country 's 54th fatal bird flu case .
The 67-year-old woman was from the town of Bandung in West Java .
An 11-year-old boy died from bird flu in a Jakarta hospital Saturday night .
Indonesia has the highest number of bird flu-related deaths in the world .
The disease has killed at least 149 people worldwide over the past three years .
Most victims contract the virus from dead or sick birds .
France has announced that six major powers will meet on Tuesday to discuss possible sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program .
France 's foreign ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei said senior diplomats from the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council plus Germany will meet in Paris .
A European Union representative is expected to join the talks .
The major powers have been working for weeks on possible sanctions against Iran .
France , Germany and Britain have circulated a draft Security Council sanctions resolution .
But Russia and China favor less stringent sanctions .
Iran defied an August 31 U.N. deadline for suspending its nuclear enrichment program .
Tehran says it has a right to develop nuclear technology for peaceful uses .
The U.S. and its allies believe Iran is trying to develop a nuclear weapon .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has accepted the resignation of his top West Bank security chief , a sign that Mr. Abbas is responding to complaints about growing chaos among his security forces .
Ismail Jaber submitted his resignation Friday after gunmen loyal to him fired on Mr. Abbas ' Ramallah compound Wednesday , when Mr. Abbas was there .
The gunmen were defying a presidential request that they either disarm or join the security forces .
Mr. Abbas was elected president in January after Yasser Arafat 's death .
He is struggling to reform his security forces .
The Palestinian news agency , WAFA , reports that he has decided to enforce a month-old law to streamline existing security forces .
A Peacock once placed a petition before Juno desiring to have the voice of a nightingale in addition to his other attractions ; but Juno refused his request .
When he persisted , and pointed out that he was her favourite bird , she said :
" Be content with your lot ; one can not be first in everything . "
Lebanon 's parliament has postponed Monday 's scheduled presidential election , the latest in a series of delays during the country 's political crisis .
Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri announced Saturday that the parliamentary voting session will be moved to February 26 .
Lebanon has been without a head of state since late November when President Emile Lahoud 's term expired .
The leadership vacuum is due to a standoff between the pro-Western governing coalition leader Saad al-Hariri and Syrian-backed opposition leader Michael Aoun .
The two sides have agreed on an Arab League plan calling for the election of army General Michel Sulieman as president .
But they differ on how to form a new national unity government .
The opposition wants a third of the seats in the new Cabinet so it can have veto power .
Forensics experts in Indonesia now say that three of four unidentifiied victims of Saturday 's bomb blasts in Bali were Australian nationals .
A total of four Australians are now confirmed to have died in the apparent suicide bombings that killed 19 people in addition to the three bombers .
One Japanese national was also killed in the attacks .
The remaining victims were Indonesian .
One victim remains unidentified .
Wednesday , Australian officials said Foreign Minister Alexander Downer would travel to Indonesia soon to lobby the Indonesian government to ban the al-Qaida linked Jemaah Islamiyah .
The group is believed to be behind Saturday 's bombings , as well as the 2002 Bali bombings which killed 202 people , including 88 Australians .
Authorities have questioned 94 people in connection with the bombings .
However , no arrests have been made , despite a massive manhunt .
An Iraqi soldier mans a checkpoint in the Saydiyah neighbourhood of south-west Baghdad in Iraq
Suicide bombings and ambushes by insurgents killed at least 21 people in Iraq Sunday as Iraqi security forces began a big security sweep in Baghdad .
The operation is aimed at stopping insurgents who have killed more than 600 people in the last month .
Iraqi soldiers and police began setting up checkpoints on the southern and northern outskirts of the city early Sunday and later began street-to-street sweeps .
A suicide car bomber killed nine Iraqi soldiers at one of the checkpoints about 20 kilometers south of Baghdad .
Other attacks killed at least 12 Iraqi police or civilians in and around the capital .
Leftist coca farmer Evo Morales has been inaugurated as Bolivia 's first indigenous president .
During his inaugural speech Sunday , Mr. Morales said Bolivia 's 500 year-long campaign of indigenous resistance has not been in vain .
Indigenous Bolivians who listened to the speech said they were hopeful he would bring change for the better .
The former congressman won a surprise majority in a single round of voting on December 18 .
A number of heads of state were in the capital , La Paz , to witness Mr. Morales take the oath of office Sunday , including Chilean President Ricardo Lagos , Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez and U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Shannon , the Bush administration 's top official for Latin America .
A CAT , hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing dressed himself up as a physician , and , taking his cane and a bag of instruments becoming his profession , went to call on them .
He knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did , saying that if they were ill , he would be happy to prescribe for them and cure them .
They replied , " We are all very well , and shall continue so , if you will only be good enough to go away , and leave us as we are . "
The Army of Ansar al-Sunna , one of Iraq 's most active terrorist groups , has claimed the assassination of a senior judge , as it intensifies its campaign to intimidate Iraqi voters just days before national elections .
In an Internet statement that has not been authenticated , the group says it killed the administrator of Iraq 's judges and vowed to do the same to what it called other infidels and apostates .
The judge , Qais Hashim Shameri , died in a hail of bullets Tuesday as he drove through Baghdad .
Another person in the car was also killed .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says five soldiers were killed in a vehicle accident north of the Iraqi capital Monday evening .
A sixth soldier died Monday after being seriously wounded in a roadside blast in Baghdad .
Thousands of demonstrators have gathered in Jerusalem to protest any renewal of a Jewish settlement freeze in the occupied West Bank or East Jerusalem .
The protesters , who rallied late Thursday , also voiced support for a letter signed by dozens of Israeli rabbis this month that would forbid the rental of homes to non-Jews .
The protest comes in the wake of increased tensions between Israelis and Palestinians over settlement construction , a key issue in U.S.-mediated peace talks between the two sides .
Direct talks between the two sides broke down after an Israeli freeze on West Bank settlement building expired in September .
Palestinians oppose construction on land they want as part of a future state .
Palestinians want a state that would include the West Bank , Gaza and East Jerusalem -- land captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war .
Israel has not agreed to those conditions .
Typhoon Damrey , now a tropical storm , pounded northern and eastern Vietnam Tuesday , killing at least one person , injuring several others and causing widespread damage .
Vietnamese authorities say Damrey came ashore early this morning in Thanh Hoa province , south of Hanoi , with heavy rain and winds around 100 kilometers per hour .
Officials say some protective dikes along the eastern coastline were seriously damaged , and several provinces lost electricity .
Hanoi Radio said the storm weakened as it moved towards Laos .
Before hitting Vietnam , Damrey slammed into the southern Chinese provinces of Hainan and Guangdong on Monday .
China ' state news agency , Xinhua , said the storm killed at least 16 people on Hainan and caused an island-wide blackout .
Chinese officials said Damrey caused more than $ 1 billion in direct losses , mainly to agriculture .
Leatherback turtles fascinate ocean researchers .
The largest of sea turtles roams the world 's oceans , nesting and feeding in coastal regions .
Scientists say leatherbacks have been doing so for at least 65 million years .
But little else is known to researchers about this species , other than their numbers are dwindling .
Recently , U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration scientists strapped a transmitter on one and were amazed by what they found .
Paul Sisco has more .
President Bush has told Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that he hopes the U.S. Congress will soon approve legislation on a civilian nuclear deal between the two nations .
Despite the support expressed by Mr. Bush during Thursday 's phone conversation , it is unclear whether the U.S. Senate will approve the measure .
The deal would let India buy nuclear fuel and technology from the United States and other suppliers if New Delhi opens its civilian nuclear sites to U.N. inspection .
The Senate took up the measure Wednesday and discussion is expected to continue today .
The House of Representatives has already approved the deal .
Prominent arms control experts have urged U.S. lawmakers to require that India stop producing nuclear fuel that could be used in weapons - before U.S.-India nuclear cooperation begins .
Kenya 's National Commission on Human Rights says both government and opposition leaders planned acts of violence following the country 's disputed presidential election .
Vice Chairperson Florence Jaoko says the commission 's investigation showed the violence was not spontaneous .
The commission says it has collected nearly 1,000 statements recounting more than 4,500 episodes of violence .
Earlier this month , US-based Human Rights Watch accused Kenyan politicians , local leaders , and businessmen of organizing attacks on rival ethnic groups .
It also accused Kenyan police of using excessive force in putting down protests - a charge the police rejected .
More than 1,000 people were killed in riots and ethnic violence following the December 27 election .
The opposition accused President Mwai Kibaki of rigging the vote to stay in power .
Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan helped broker a peace deal that included a power-sharing agreement between Mr. Kibaki and opposition leader Raila Odinga .
British police have charged five men in an alleged terrorist plot to kidnap and behead a Muslim British soldier .
Prosecutors said Friday one suspect is charged with intention to kidnap and kill a member of the armed forces .
The other four suspects also face terrorism charges , including helping to equip and fund the alleged kidnapping plot .
Police arrested a total of nine men last week in Birmingham in what British media have described as a plan to kidnap a British Muslim soldier who had served in Afghanistan , torture and behead him , then post a video of the gruesome events on the Internet .
Iraqi militants have used the same tactic .
Three of the nine suspects have been released , and one other remains in custody and has not been charged .
Thousands of Palestinians across the West Bank voted Thursday in the final phase of municipal elections .
Initial estimates showed turnout was high in the first election since Israel 's withdrawal from parts of the West Bank and all of the Gaza Strip .
The ruling Fatah movement of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is facing stiff opposition from candidates of the militant group Hamas .
Hamas has tried to portray Israel 's withdrawal as a militant victory .
The vote could set the tone for Palestinian parliamentary elections in January .
Israel has said it will not help facilitate those elections if Hamas participates without first disarming .
In a separate development , President Abbas condemned the killing of three militants during an Israeli military raid Thursday in the West Bank .
He called it an escalation that jeopardizes the peace process .
A U.S. diplomatic cable appearing on the Wikileaks website says Syria promoted violent protests against controversial cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad four years ago in which European embassies in Damascus were attacked .
The cable quotes the U.S. embassy charge d'affaires Stephen Seche as saying Syrian Prime Minister Naji al-Otari asked mosque preachers to unleash fiery sermons on the eve of the protests .
The cartoons , including one of the Prophet with a turban resembling a bomb , first appeared in a Danish daily and set off protests throughout the Muslim world .
Many Muslims believe their faith forbids any images of the Prophet .
The embassies of Denmark and Norway were torched in the Syrian protests .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice accused Damascus at the time of inciting the violence .
Syria disputed the charges .
The February 5 , 2006 cable says that Syrian officials seem " to have miscalculated and lost control " of the protests .
A bomb attack on a major oil pipeline in northern Iraq has disrupted Iraqi crude oil exports sent through Turkey .
Civil defense workers are trying to put out a fire caused by the attack at al-Hadhar south of Mosul Thursday morning .
The bomb blew a hole in the pipeline .
Iraqi officials say it will take several days to repair the damage and get oil flowing again .
The pipeline runs from northern Iraq to Ceyhan , Turkey , and typically carries about 420,000 barrels of crude oil per day , a quarter of Iraq 's overall output .
The pipeline was last attacked in December .
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , OPEC , has lowered its 2006 estimate for world crude oil demand .
OPEC 's monthly oil report for August now anticipates daily demand for oil will grow by 1.3 million barrels , slightly less than last month 's forecast .
The 11-nation oil cartel produces more than one third of the world 's crude oil supply .
Analysts say OPEC 's downward adjustment stems , in part , from a slowing U.S. economy which is expected to have an important impact on the crude oil market .
U.S. crude oil prices fell by 20 cents Wednesday to about $ 73 per barrel .
The chief U.S. negotiator to talks in Beijing aimed at dismantling North Korea 's nuclear program says he expects to return home Monday , whether or not an agreement is reached .
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill says an amended draft submitted by China is the best hope so far for bringing all the sides together .
However , he says some phrases in the draft still need clarification .
Japan 's chief delegate to the talks says he believes there is still a chance of reaching an agreement in the six-party talks that also include the two Koreas and Russia .
The delegates met twice Sunday .
North Korea is demanding that it be supplied with a light water nuclear reactor to generate electricity .
Washington has rejected that demand , saying Pyongyang has broken nonproliferation promises in the past .
Federal prosecutors in Germany say police have arrested an Iraqi man suspected of distributing video and audio messages recorded by al-Qaida leaders .
Prosecutors say the 36-year-old Iraqi , identified only as Ibrahim R. , was arrested Tuesday near the western city of Osnabrueck .
He is accused of spreading via the Internet a series of audio and video messages from al-Qaida leaders , including Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri , the number-two leader in the terrorist network .
The man is facing charges including aiding and supporting a terrorist organization .
He will be brought before a judge on Wednesday .
Video and audio message from Bin Laden and Zawahiri have repeatedly threatened western countries , including the United States , with violent attacks .
Before and during the Olympics , the issue of Tibet was frequently in the news .
In March , an anti-government demonstration in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa , turned into a riot .
It catapulted the Himalayan region into the headlines and led to protests that disrupted the Olympic torch relay .
In the closing days of the Beijing Olympics , China showcased a new production of an old propaganda opera that presents an image of Sino-Tibetan harmony .
Stephanie Ho reports from Beijing .
Russia and Iran have signed a landmark agreement for Moscow to supply Tehran with fuel for its first nuclear reactor .
The signing ceremony Sunday at Iran 's Bushehr nuclear power plant , which Russia helped build , had been delayed 24 hours as talks continued .
European and U.S. officials have expressed concern that spent fuel from the reactor could be enriched and used to create nuclear weapons .
Diplomats say there is evidence that Iran has known since the late 1980s how to enrich uranium .
They say Iran obtained the information from a black market network operated by Pakistan 's Abdul Qadeer Khan .
Iran says the purpose of its nuclear program is the generation of electricity , not the development of nuclear weapons .
The new agreement calls for all spent nuclear fuel to be returned to Russia to ease concerns that Iran might reprocess it for use in nuclear weapons .
A published report cites U.S. intelligence officials as saying insurgents in Iraq are receiving more direction from Iraqis now living in Syria than earlier believed .
Wednesday 's Washington Post quotes unnamed officials saying former Saddam Hussein loyalists that have found sanctuary in Syria are collecting money from private sources in Saudi Arabia and Europe to help the insurgency .
U.S. officials say Washington has begun to press Damascus to arrest or expel certain Iraqis .
The newspaper also quoted Syria 's ambassador to the United States Imad Moustapha rejecting the allegations as unfounded .
In Iraq today , Britain 's Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon arrived in the southern city of Basra to visit British troops .
On Tuesday , Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi again insisted that elections should be held as scheduled next month , adding that the vote may be staggered over two weeks for security concerns .
U.S. officials have ordered a recall of 143 million pounds of beef produced by a California processor accused of violating food safety regulations , in the largest recall in U.S. history .
The U.S. Department of Agriculture announced Sunday the recall of frozen beef produced during the past two years by the Westland / Hallmark Meat Company .
Federal officials suspended operations at the plant last week after undercover video showed crippled and sick animals being shoved into the slaughterhouse by a worker on a forklift .
Regulations call for the removal from the food supply of cattle that are unable to walk because they carry higher risk for a number of diseases , including Mad Cow disease .
The USDA said it is extremely unlikely any of the sick animals at the plant had Mad Cow disease .
Police in Mexico say a group of armed men raided a drug rehabilitation facility and opened fire , killing 19 people and wounding several others .
Officials say the rampage took place late Thursday at the Faith and Life center in the northern city of Chihuahua .
The French news agency quotes a police official on Friday as saying 30 gunmen were involved in the attack .
The report says the assailants fired large-caliber weapons at patients and employees before fleeing .
The motive for the attack is unclear .
Mexico 's Chihuahua state , where the city of Chihuahua is located , is home to major drug cartels , and drug-related violence is frequent .
Indonesia 's health ministry says international tests have confirmed that a 30-year old man who died last month had contracted bird flu .
An Indonesian health official , Joko Suyono , says samples from dead man tested positive for the virus at a Hong Kong laboratory affiliated with the World Health Organization .
The man is the 25th Indonesian known to have died of bird flu since 2003 , the second highest death toll of any country after Vietnam .
Officials say the victim was a resident of western Jakarta who had a history of contact with sick poultry .
He died at a Jakarta hospital for bird flu patients April 26 .
U.S. officials say China is willing to send hundreds of engineers to Sudan 's troubled Darfur region as part of a planned United Nations-backed deployment of peacekeepers .
State Department spokesman Gonzalo Gallegos on Monday welcomed China 's decision , calling it a positive development .
But he also called on Beijing to use its significant influence with Khartoum to agree to the full deployment of a hybrid U.N.-African Union force of more than 20-thousand troops as soon as possible .
Sudan has resisted international pressure to allow the peacekeepers , who would strengthen an existing African Union force in Darfur .
Fighting between rebels and pro-government forces in Darfur has killed some 200,000 people since 2003 .
More than two million others have been displaced .
Sudan 's government is accused of arming militias known as Janjaweed that are blamed for most of the conflict .
Iraqis took another historic step toward democracy Wednesday , as their first freely elected parliament in nearly a half-century convened for the first time .
In Washington , President Bush congratulated the Iraqi people and the 275-member interim National Assembly , saying it is a " bright moment " in Iraq 's democratic process .
The assembly was sworn in at the Baghdad Convention Center inside the heavily protected Green Zone .
Its session was mostly ceremonial , as talks are still continuing on power-sharing in the new government .
Insurgents marked the day with several large explosions in Baghdad before and after the assembly session .
No casualties were reported .
North of the capital , in Baquba , a car bomb exploded at a checkpoint , killing at least four Iraqi soldiers .
And the U.S. military said an American soldier was killed in a roadside bomb explosion south of Baghdad .
Liberian election officials have opened hearings into electoral fraud claims by presidential candidate George Weah , who trails by a large margin in the country 's run-off vote .
Mr. Weah has alleged there was cheating , including pre-marked ballots , in last week 's second round election pitting him against former Finance Minister Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf .
He has called for a re-run of the poll .
A final vote count earlier this week showed Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf won 59 percent of the vote to 41 percent for Mr. Weah , a former soccer ( football ) star .
Election officials said the results are considered preliminary until an investigation is completed into Mr. Weah 's allegations .
International observers say there was no evidence of widespread fraud .
And leaders from several African countries praised the run-off as peaceful , transparent , free and fair .
Final results are expected next week .
Czech officials are accusing Russia of interfering in their internal affairs by threatening military action against a planned U.S. missile defense system on Czech soil .
The Czech Defense Ministry Thursday called Russia 's reaction to the defense shield pact inappropriate rhetoric .
Russia has threatened to take military action if the United States deploys missile defense radar in the Czech Republic and interceptor missiles in Poland .
Washington and Prague signed a deal this week .
Talks with Poland are still under way .
Washington says the system is aimed at averting a possible missile strike from Iran .
Russia calls the system a threat to its security .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates says this week 's Iranian missile tests are evidence the missile defense shield is needed .
French President Jacques Chirac has pledged his country 's continued military support for the Afghan government .
The announcement came Monday during his meeting in Paris with Afghan President Hamid Karzai , who arrived on Sunday for a three-day visit .
France currently has about 600 soldiers in the NATO-led international peace-keeping force in Afghanistan .
The Afghan president says he eventually wants to see the NATO peace-keeping forces and the U.S.-led combat troops merged under the unified command of NATO .
President Bush is set to address the country later Wednesday on the national disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina .
Mr. Bush will speak from the White House Rose Garden at 2100 UTC ( 5 pm EDT ) .
During the flight from Mr. Bush 's ranch in Texas , the president 's plane , Air Force One , flew over the hurricane-damaged areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
While passing over the flooded city of New Orleans , White House spokesman Scott McClellan quoted Mr. Bush as saying " It 's devastating .
It 's got to be doubly devastating on the ground . "
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said the president will likely visit the affected region later this week .
The spokesman said Mr. Bush held a video conference with top advisers before leaving his Texas ranch .
The discussion focused on saving lives and developing a long-term plan for dealing with displaced residents .
The White House will ask Congress for an additional $ 70 billion in emergency funds to help pay for the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The money comes on top of $ 50 billion approved late last year .
The funds are intended to keep military operations in those two countries going through this fiscal year , which ends in September .
Since the September , 2001 terrorist attacks , the Defense Department has spent a total of $ 320 billion on campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan , not counting this latest request .
The request follows Congress ' approval Wednesday of slashing $ 39 billion in health , education and other benefits , and as the Senate begins debating a Republican-proposed $ 70 billion tax reduction .
The United Nation 's agricultural organization has praised Burma for its quick response to its latest bird flu outbreaks .
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization says Burma 's response to the outbreaks have been " quick and effective . "
It is providing $ 1.4 million in emergency assistance to help Burma fight the disease .
Burma 's state-run newspaper The New Light of Myanmar reports that 66 pheasants and 60 quail died on two farms on the outskirts of the capital , Rangoon .
The cases are under investigation to determine whether the birds had the deadly H5N1 strain .
Since last month four townships in Rangoon have reported bird flu cases .
Meanwhile , Indonesian Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari says the country wants a legal guarantee that bird flu samples it sends to the World Health Organization will not be used for commercial gain .
Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman says his country has no plans to bomb Iran .
Lieberman told reporters in Moscow Wednesday that Israel does not " need " to carry out attacks on Iran and that Israel is a strong country and can defend itself .
The Israeli foreign minister added that Iran is not just a problem for Israel but the entire Middle East and that Israel will not be the one to solve the problem .
Lieberman made the comments during a visit to Russia .
Israel has repeatedly described Iran 's nuclear program as a threat to its existence .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu raised concerns about Iran during his recent talks with U.S. officials in Washington .
The European Union is condemning Ethiopia 's decision to expel two EU diplomats .
EU Development Commissioner Louis Michel told reporters in Brussels Friday that no reason has been given for the expulsion .
He called the situation " unacceptable " and said he has asked the Ethiopian ambassador to provide an explanation .
It is not clear if the diplomats have already been deported .
Ethiopian state-run television Thursday reported that police detained two foreign diplomats in the south , near the Kenyan border .
The report said the diplomats are accused of trying to smuggle alleged Ethiopian criminals into Kenya .
The European Union is one of Ethiopia 's largest aid donors .
However , EU officials have been critical of the government 's crackdown of opposition leaders and journalists .
America has more than 1,000 art museums , 35 aviation museums , and even a museum dedicated to rock 'n roll music .
Now a new kind of museum is opening its doors in downtown Manhattan .
Its location near the former World Trade Center site is part of an effort to revitalize the neighborhood left economically depressed after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S.
VOA 's Nathan King reports .
The U.S. military says it has released about 1,000 prisoners from Abu Ghraib prison after Iraqi authorities requested they be set free .
In a statement released Saturday , the military said the release represented a major milestone in Iraq 's progress towards democracy and the rule of law .
It said the prisoners had been brought to Abu Ghraib from detention facilities across Iraq , and had been released over the last four days .
A U.S. military spokesman said the released prisoners were not guilty of serious or violent crimes such as bombing , kidnapping , torture or murder and have renounced violence .
The move , the largest prisoner release to date , followed appeals by Sunni representatives for the United States to release thousands of prisoners who have been languishing in jail for months without being charged .
The United Nations says 500,000 people in Indonesia still lack permanent housing nearly one year after the devastating Indian Ocean tsunami .
Officials with the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization 's post-tsunami operations say many areas of the hard-hit western coast of Aceh remain a disaster area and sustainable recovery will be a five to 10-year effort .
Despite the massive building efforts still required , officials were upbeat about the overall progress , saying local economies are rebounding .
Also Thursday , the European Commission released an additional $ 24 million in aid for victims of the disaster , bringing the European Union 's total contribution to $ 148 million .
Officials stressed aid is still desperately needed for the hundreds of thousands of people living in temporary camps .
The U.S. military says a man dressed in an Afghan army uniform has shot and killed two U.S. soldiers outside a top security prison near Kabul .
Military spokesman , Major Sheldon Smith says the gunman wounded two other American soldiers in the shooting Sunday .
The spokesman says the gunman was shot dead by Afghan troops at the prison .
The motive for the attack is unclear .
Earlier , Afghan officials said a remote-controlled roadside bomb killed five policemen in Ghazni province in eastern Afghanistan .
Authorities also said a suicide bomber detonated explosives near police in the western province of Farah , killing only the bomber .
In the past year , Taleban insurgents have dramatically increased their attacks against Afghan authorities and U.S.-led coalition troops .
U.S.-led forces pushed the Taleban from power in late 2001 following the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
A land mine explosion in Nepal Saturday killed at least six bus passengers and injured several others .
Nepalese authorities say the land mine was hidden beneath a barricade blocking a road .
It exploded as passengers were working to dismantle the roadblock in a Kapilvastu district , 325 kilometers southwest of the capital , Kathmandu .
The land mine is believed to have been planted by Maoist rebels , who fought with government troops in the same area on Friday , a battle that killed at least five soldiers and an unknown number of guerillas .
Nepal 's Maoists have been fighting since 1996 to establish a communist republic in the Himalayan kingdom .
Violence has continued unabated since King Gyanendra dismissed a coalition government and seized power six months ago .
Botswana has maintained one of the world 's highest economic growth rates since independence in 1966 , though growth fell below 5 % in 2007 - 08 , and turned sharply negative in 2009 , with industry falling nearly 30 % .
Through fiscal discipline and sound management , Botswana transformed itself from one of the poorest countries in the world to a middle-income country with a per capita GDP of $ 13,100 in 2010 .
Two major investment services rank Botswana as the best credit risk in Africa .
Diamond mining has fueled much of the expansion and currently accounts for more than one-third of GDP , 70-80 % of export earnings , and about half of the government 's revenues .
Botswana 's heavy reliance on a single luxury export was a critical factor in the sharp economic contraction of 2009 .
Tourism , financial services , subsistence farming , and cattle raising are other key sectors .
Although unemployment was 7.5 % in 2007 according to official reports , unofficial estimates place it closer to 40 % .
The prevalence of HIV / AIDS is second highest in the world and threatens Botswana 's impressive economic gains .
An expected leveling off in diamond mining production within the next two decades overshadows long-term prospects .
Turkish warplanes have bombed Kurdish rebel hideouts in northern Iraq .
The Turkish military said Thursday that it targeted 13 facilities belonging to the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) in the Zap region , near the Turkish border .
The military says it is still trying to determine if any rebels were killed .
Turkey has stepped up military operations this year against PKK rebels , both inside Turkey and in northern Iraq .
Earlier this week , the PKK released three German tourists seized during an expedition to Turkey 's Mount Ararat July 8 .
Turkish military officials say a total of 33 PKK fighters were killed during a five-day offensive that ended last week .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey for nearly 25 years .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
The European Union , the United States , Turkey and other countries classify the PKK as a terrorist organization .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has criticized Israeli plans to expand a controversial settlement in the West Bank .
In an interview published Friday by a leading U.S. newspaper , Ms. Rice said Israeli plans to build additional homes in the Maaleh Adumin settlement could threaten peace with the Palestinians and is at odds with American policy .
European Union Foreign Policy chief Javier Solana also expressed concern about the expansion plan , which he said conflicts with commitments Israel made under the internationally brokered 2003 peace plan .
Meanwhile , more than 10,000 Hamas sympathizers gathered in the West Bank towns of Ramallah and Nablus to mark this week 's one-year anniversary of the death of Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin .
The 67-year-old quadriplegic was killed in an Israeli airstrike as he was leaving a mosque in Gaza City last March .
China 's president is making a rare visit to Pyongyang for talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong-il .
State-controlled media from both nations say Mr. Kim greeted Chinese President Hu Jintao on the airport tarmac Friday , as he arrived on a three-day visit .
On arrival , Mr. Hu delivered a statement saying " the China-North Korea friendship is conducive to safeguarding peace and stability and promoting development and prosperity in the region " .
Mr. Hu 's trip precedes the next round of six-nation talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions , set to take place in Beijing early next month .
It is unclear if the nuclear issue is on the agenda during Mr. Hu 's current visit .
During last month 's six-nation talks , North Korea agreed to abandon its nuclear weapons program .
But Pyongyang later said it first wants light-water nuclear reactors for civilian energy production .
Iraqi officials say a suicide bomber has killed three people and wounded at least 10 others in central Baghdad .
Officials say the bomber targeted a police unit Wednesday in the Karradah neighborhood .
Also Wednesday , two Iraqi policemen were killed by a suicide bomber in the northern city , Mosul .
Violence in Iraq has dropped sharply over the past year , but the security situation remains fragile .
The U.S. military has been transferring security responsibilities to the Iraqi government , with U.S. forces scheduled to withdraw from the country by 2011 .
The Brazilian government says it will collaborate with any Palestinian government that wants peace and recognizes Israel 's right to exist .
Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim made the comments Thursday in response to published reports that Hamas - the Islamic group that won last month 's Palestinian elections - would seek financial and political support from Brazil .
But Amorim said Hamas has not contacted Brazil .
The United States and other countries have warned that they will curtail funding to a Hamas-led Palestinian government unless the group renounces violence and acknowledges Israel 's right to exist .
Hamas has said it will not be pressured into recognizing Israel by what it calls international threats of blackmail over aid .
Israel has approved plans to build 3,500 new homes in the occupied West Bank , in a move Palestinians say sabotages efforts to rekindle the Mideast peace process .
The Israeli plan , approved by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , appears to clash with the U.S.-backed " Roadmap " peace plan .
That plan calls for a halt to settlement expansion on all Palestinian land captured by Israel in the 1967 war .
There has been no U.S. comment on the move , which analysts say is aimed at linking the settlement of Maale Adumim to greater Jerusalem .
Israel claims Jerusalem as its eternal capital , while Palestinians want Arab East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state .
Meanwhile , Israeli-Palestinian talks are expected to continue later today on the Israeli handover of security control in the West Bank town of Tulkarem .
Palestinians assumed control of Jericho last week .
Security officials in Iraq say a car bomb has killed at least two people and wounded five in central Baghdad .
Monday 's bombing happened in the capital 's Karrada district .
Also in Baghdad , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in an attack on his patrol .
The military said the soldier was killed by small-arms fire on Sunday .
In other violence Sunday , bomb attacks killed at least nine people and wounded about 70 .
Iraqi officials said a suicide truck bomber attacked a police checkpoint in the northern city of Kirkuk , killing three people .
Another suicide truck bomber struck the northern city of Mosul , killing two people .
A roadside bomb blast hit a minibus in eastern Iraq 's Diyala province , killing three people .
A Turkish human rights group has asked a prosecutor to start legal proceedings against Israel 's defense minister for alleged crimes committed against Palestinians during Israel 's offensive in the Gaza Strip .
The Istanbul-based Mazlum-Der filed the petition on Friday , just two days before Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak is to visit Turkey in a bid to mend ties .
Turkey has been an important ally of Israel , but relations have been strained since the Gaza conflict year ago , which drew criticism from Turkish leaders .
Turkey 's judiciary has thrown out similar complaints against Israeli officials in the past .
Israel launched the offensive in Gaza in December of 2008 to stop Palestinian militant rocket attacks on Israeli towns .
The conflict killed more than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis .
The United Nations says 250 members of Somalia 's transitional parliament are attending a training seminar to help them understand how federal government works .
U.N. officials say the six-day seminar in Somalia 's temporary capital of Baidoa this week will teach lawmakers about how power is lawfully shared between branches of government .
The seminar is one of six U.N. projects backing reconciliation efforts in Somalia .
Other projects include trying to prevent the return of large-scale conflict among militias , reviving the business climate and developing a legal system .
Somalia has been without a central government for 15 years and much of the country remains lawless , including the former capital Mogadishu .
A U.N. development plan for Somalia calls for writing and holding a referendum on a new Constitution by 2009 .
Vera Dushevina of Russia has defeated Ivana Lisjak of Croatia , 7-6 , 6-0 in a first-round match at the Gaz de France indoor women 's tennis tournament in Paris .
Dushevina , ranked 46th in the world , next meets Australian Open champion Amelie Mauresmo of France in the second round Wednesday .
The top-seeded Mauresmo has a first-round bye .
Also with byes into the second round are second-seeded Mary Pierce of France , third-seeded Russian Nadia Petrova and fourth-seeded Patty Schnyder of Switzerland .
In other first round play , Virginie Razzano of France beat Kveta Peschke of the Czech Republic , 6-1 , 6-1 .
Razzano next plays defending champion Dinara Safina of Russia .
Tsvetana Pironkova of Bulgaria needed three sets to beat Lucie Safarova of the Czech Republic , 6-2 , 2-6 , 6-0 .
A fellow hunter who was accidentally shot and wounded by U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney is recovering in stable condition .
A hospital spokesman in Corpus Christi , Texas said 78-year-old attorney Harry Whittington is alert and doing well .
The spokesman said Whittington will undergo more tests Monday , and it is not yet clear when he will be released from the hospital .
The accident happened Saturday while he and the vice president were hunting quail in southern Texas .
A witness to the shooting , Katharine Armstrong , said Cheney fired a shotgun at a flying bird without realizing his companion was in the line of fire .
Whittington was hit with shotgun pellets in his right cheek , neck and chest Cheney visited Whittington in the hospital Sunday before returning to Washington .
The vice president is an avid hunter .
English football star David Beckham will be sidelined for around four weeks after suffering a right knee injury playing for Spanish side Real Madrid on Sunday .
The team announced Monday that the 31-year-old Beckham strained the internal lateral ligament in his right knee when he collided with advertising signs behind the goal after attempting a crossing pass into the goal area .
He continued playing after the collision , but was in obvious pain and limped off the field in the 69th minute .
On January 11 , Beckham signed a five-year , $ 250 million contract to join Major League Soccer 's Los Angeles Galaxy after his contract with Real Madrid expires June 30 .
The MLS has not commented on the injury .
Dozens of demobilized soldiers have taken over the home of ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in a Port-au-Prince suburb .
A spokesman for the former soldiers says they plan to use the home as a base to improve security for people in the area .
The action comes one day after U.N. peacekeepers stormed a stronghold of Mr. Aristide 's supporters to control areas that have been flashpoints of violence .
Meanwhile , the top U.S. diplomat for Latin America , Roger Noriega , Wednesday called on governments and institutions to speed up disbursement of more than $ 1.3 billion pledged to Haiti at a World Bank conference in July .
Mr. Noriega also stressed the need for Haiti 's interim leadership to provide security , prepare for elections , and defend the human rights of Haitians .
Hundreds of Pakistani investors rioted at the Karachi Stock Exchange Thursday demanding a halt in trading after share prices fell for the 15th straight session .
The exchange 's security chief Mohammed Aslam said investors began smashing windows after the administration declined to suspend trading .
Similar protests also broke out in Lahore , where investors burned tires and blocked roads .
The Karachi Stock Exchange index has fallen 14 percent since Monday .
Angry investors blamed the government for the recent volatility , after regulators relaxed curbs on daily stock price movements .
Persistent concerns about economic and political instability have also contributed to a decline in Pakistani stocks .
A relief ship has arrived in northern Sri Lanka to deliver supplies for people cut off by fighting between Tamil Tiger rebels and government forces .
The ship was filled with 1,500 tons of food , medicine and other supplies for civilians in the Jaffna peninsula .
International Committee of the Red Cross officials said both sides to the conflict have promised a safe passage for the ship .
A passenger ferry also was due to arrive in the north Friday to evacuate 150 foreigners caught in the fighting for nearly two weeks .
Meanwhile , Sri Lanka 's military said five rebels were killed late Thursday in a clash with troops in the northeastern Batticaloa area .
The United Nations says 170,000 people have fled their homes to escape the violence .
The fate of at least 8,000 foreign tourists vacationing in Southeast Asia remains unknown , more than a week after a tsunami pounded coastlines and beach resorts in the region .
At least 350 deaths have been confirmed as foreigners .
But officials say that number will likely rise as the identity of victims is sorted out .
In Thailand alone , officials say nearly half of the 5,000 reported deaths were foreign visitors .
Southern Asia was at the height of its tourist season when the tsunami hit .
Sweden and the United States are reporting the most missing citizens .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says as many as 5,000 Americans are unaccounted for .
He adds there is a " distinct possibility " that the U.S. death toll will increase from the 15 confirmed so far .
Swedish officials say nearly 3,000 are still missing .
A lawyer for imprisoned Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky says his client has begun a hunger strike in solidarity with a colleague being held in solitary confinement .
Lawyer Anton Drel says Khodorkovsky began his fast Friday after authorities placed his business partner , Platon Lebedev , in solitary confinement on charges of violating detention center rules and insulting the institution 's personnel .
In May , a Moscow court sentenced the two men to nine years in prison on fraud and tax evasion charges .
Critics of Russian President Vladimir Putin have called the case against Khodorkovsky , the one-time largest shareholder in the Russia 's giant Yukos oil firm , retribution for his support of the political opposition .
The Kremlin has denied the charge .
The islands , which have large bird and seal populations , lie approximately 1,000 km east of the Falkland Islands and have been under British administration since 1908 - except for a brief period in 1982 when Argentina occupied them .
Grytviken , on South Georgia , was a 19th and early 20th century whaling station .
Famed explorer Ernest SHACKLETON stopped there in 1914 en route to his ill-fated attempt to cross Antarctica on foot .
He returned some 20 months later with a few companions in a small boat and arranged a successful rescue for the rest of his crew , stranded off the Antarctic Peninsula .
He died in 1922 on a subsequent expedition and is buried in Grytviken .
Today , the station houses scientists from the British Antarctic Survey .
Recognizing the importance of preserving the marine stocks in adjacent waters , the UK , in 1993 , extended the exclusive fishing zone from 12 nm to 200 nm around each island .
Kyrgyzstan is a poor , mountainous country with a dominant agricultural sector .
Cotton , tobacco , wool , and meat are the main agricultural products , although only tobacco and cotton are exported in any quantity .
Industrial exports include gold , mercury , uranium , natural gas , and electricity .
The economy depends heavily on gold exports - mainly from output at the Kumtor gold mine .
Following independence , Kyrgyzstan was progressive in carrying out market reforms , such as an improved regulatory system and land reform .
Kyrgyzstan was the first Commonwealth of Independent States ( CIS ) country to be accepted into the World Trade Organization .
Much of the government 's stock in enterprises has been sold .
Drops in production had been severe after the breakup of the Soviet Union in December 1991 , but by mid-1995 , production began to recover and exports began to increase .
In 2005 , the BAKIEV government and international financial institutions initiated a comprehensive medium-term poverty reduction and economic growth strategy .
Bishkek agreed to pursue much needed tax reform and , in 2006 , became eligible for the heavily indebted poor countries ( HIPC ) initiative .
The government made steady strides in controlling its substantial fiscal deficit , nearly closing the gap between revenues and expenditures in 2006 , before boosting expenditures more than 20 % in 2007 - 08 .
GDP grew about 8 % annually in 2007 - 08 , partly due to higher gold prices internationally , but slowed to 2.3 % in 2009 .
The overthrow of President BAKIEV in April , 2010 and subsequent ethnic clashes left hundreds dead and damaged infrastructure .
Shrinking trade and agricultural production , as well as political instability , caused GDP to contract about 3.5 % in 2010 .
The fiscal deficit widened to 11 % of GDP , reflecting significant increases in crisis-related spending , including both rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure and bank recapitalization .
Progress in reconstruction , fighting corruption , restructuring domestic industry , and attracting foreign aid and investment are key to future growth .
A Scottish court has denied bail to a Libyan man with terminal cancer who was convicted of the 1988 bombing of a U.S. airliner that killed 270 people .
The former Libyan intelligence agent , Abdel Basset al-Megrahi , is currently serving a life sentence for being part of a group that planted a bomb on a Pan Am 747 that crashed over the Scottish town of Lockerbie .
His lawyers argued he does not have long to live and deserves to be treated with compassion .
The court turned down the man 's application for release saying he stands convicted of a serious atrocity .
It added that his condition is stable and he is receiving full medical care .
Suspected al-Qaida-linked militants have raided a village in the southern Philippines , killing at least 11 people .
Military officials say Abu Sayyaf gunmen , backed by renegade Muslim separatists , attacked a civilian militia detachment early Saturday in the village of Tubigan , Basilan province , on Mindanao island .
Local officials said the villagers were asleep when about 70 attackers began spraying houses with automatic gunfire .
They also set houses on fire .
Ten civilians were killed , including a one-year-old girl .
A member of the local militia also was killed .
At least 17 people , including four children , were wounded by gunfire and blazes before the attackers fled .
Authorities say troops are searching for the culprits .
They say the attack took place hours after a rescue operation freed two Chinese hostages held by Abu Sayyaf since November .
A new poll indicates only a third of Americans believe their members of Congress are honest .
In a poll of 1,000 adults taken October 3 through 5 , the Associated Press reports , 45 percent of those surveyed gave Congress poor marks for honesty and ethics .
One-third of the respondents said congressional ethics are good , and 21 percent said congressional ethics are neither good nor poor .
Only 35 percent said they approved of the way Congress does its job .
That number is down from 44 percent in a similar poll taken in February .
Two top Republican lawmakers are being investigated for ethics issues .
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist is the subject of a federal probe for possible insider stock trading .
Former House Majority Leader Tom Delay was charged in Texas earlier this month with violating campaign finance laws .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy says European Union leaders have agreed on a common approach to reform the world financial system ahead of this month 's summit on the issue in Washington .
The French president , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , told reporters the 27 leaders , meeting in Brussels , had agreed on the need for a fully coordinated political and economic response to the crisis .
Earlier , EU officials acknowledged some disagreement among union members about how involved governments should be in the financial reform .
Members also questioned how much will be accomplished at the Washington summit as the nation prepares to welcome a new presidential administration .
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has said it will take unprecedented levels of global coordination to deal with the financial meltdown .
Leaders of wealthy nations and the heads of major developing economies gather in Washington November 15 to focus on the worldwide economic downturn .
Two top Palestinian militant leaders have been killed in an Israeli airstrike in the northern Gaza Strip .
Authorities say Hassan Madhoun , a senior member of the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , and top Hamas militant Fawzi Abu Kara were killed Tuesday , when an Israeli missile hit their car near the Jabalya refugee camp .
The Palestinian Authority says at least nine bystanders were wounded .
A short while after the attack , spokesmen for Hamas and al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades vowed to retaliate .
Israel says the al-Aqsa militant was wanted in connection with a 2004 bombing that killed 10 people in the Israeli port of Ashdod .
Israel has carried out numerous strikes in Gaza since a Palestinian suicide bomber killed five Israelis in central Israel October 26 .
World oil prices rose Monday as investors waited for results from a meeting between President Bush and Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah in Texas about oil supplies , prices and other issues .
Saudi Arabia is the world 's largest crude oil supplier and the only member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries that could significantly increase oil output soon .
The benchmark price of crude oil rose as high as 26 cents , to $ 55.65 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange .
Analysts blame recent price hikes on a series of refinery breakdowns that make it more difficult to turn crude oil into gasoline to meet expected demand .
Crude oil prices hit a record high of $ 58.28 in early April , then declined for a while before the recent rebound .
The United Nations is appealing for more than $ 180 million next year to help refugees from Sudan 's Darfur region who have fled to neighboring Chad .
The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says that is a 10 percent increase over this year 's budget .
It says the money will be used to provide both refugees and the local population with food and water as well as basic services such as health and education .
The United Nations estimates 200,000 Sudanese have fled to eastern Chad to escape attacks by pro-government Arab militia .
It says the large influx has led to growing tensions between the refugees and the local Chadian population , as the two groups increasingly compete for scarce food , water and land .
This island economy suffers from a poor natural resource base , including serious water shortages exacerbated by cycles of long-term drought and poor soil for agriculture on several of the islands .
The economy is service oriented with commerce , transport , tourism , and public services accounting for about three-fourths of GDP .
Although about 40 % of the population lives in rural areas , the share of food production in GDP is low .
About 82 % of food must be imported .
The fishing potential , mostly lobster and tuna , is not fully exploited .
Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit financed by foreign aid and remittances from its large pool of emigrants ; remittances supplement GDP by more than 20 % .
Despite the lack of resources , sound economic management has produced steadily improving incomes .
Continued economic reforms are aimed at developing the private sector and attracting foreign investment to diversify the economy .
Future prospects depend heavily on the maintenance of aid flows , the encouragement of tourism , remittances , and the momentum of the government 's development program .
Cape Verde became a member of the WTO in July 2008 .
Oil prices in the United States dipped Tuesday after Saudi Arabia 's oil minister said there is no need for further OPEC production cuts .
Ali al-Naimi said in New Delhi that recent OPEC cuts are working well , and a meeting to discuss further cutbacks is unnecessary .
Oil prices fell below $ 52 a barrel , nearing a 19-month low .
Prices have fallen steadily since the beginning of the year , as mild weather in the western hemisphere has lightened demand .
The fall in prices comes despite the international oil cartel 's November production cut of one million barrels per day .
President Bush is on his way to Europe to meet with European leaders in an effort to rebuild relations damaged by the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
Brussels is the first stop on a five day , three nation tour that will also take Mr. Bush to Germany and Slovakia .
Belgian officials have mounted an unprecedented level of security for the U.S. president 's visit , which is drawing protesters .
Mr. Bush arrives late Sunday .
While in Brussels , the president is to meet with European Union and NATO leaders for talks expected to focus on trans-Atlantic ties , the Middle East , and Iran 's nuclear program .
He will also hold separate talks this week with Iraq war opponents , including French President Jacques Chirac , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Russian President Vladimir Putin .
President Bush is also due to meet with Iraq war allies , including British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Tens of thousands of anti-abortion activists are set to take part in Monday 's annual " March on Washington " to mark the 34th anniversary of a Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion .
Similar marches and rallies are also taking place in cities and towns across the United States .
In Washington , D.C. , abortion opponents will march past the U.S. Capitol and end outside the Supreme Court .
President Bush is scheduled to address the demonstrators by telephone .
Senator Sam Brownback , a socially-conservative Republican who announced Saturday he is running for president in 2008 , is participating in the March for Life events .
Activists on the other side of the issue who support abortion rights will also be holding smaller rallies in Washington and other cities .
The " Roe versus Wade " Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion was handed down on January 22 , 1973 .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has criticized a U.S. judge 's decision to release on bail a Cuban-born former U.S. intelligence operative .
In an article in Cuba 's state-run newspaper Granma , Mr. Castro accused the White House of influencing the decision to free Luis Posada Carriles ahead of his May trial .
Mr. Castro said President Bush has double-standards in his efforts to fight terrorism by harboring a wanted criminal .
Carriles faces immigration fraud charges in the U.S. state of Texas , but is also wanted by Venezuela for allegedly bombing a Cuban airliner .
Seventy-three people were killed in the attack in 1976 .
The article was the third in Granma attributed to Mr. Castro in two weeks .
The Cuban leader has not been seen in public since July , when he underwent intestinal surgery .
The UN Security Council unanimously adopted two resolutions
Thursday — one on the DRC and the other on Somalia .
The Security Council has voted in favor of sending an additional 3,000 troops to DRC to beef up MONUC , the UN mission there .
It also approved giving the sanctions committee authority to impose sanctions against those who impede the peace process in Somalia , hinder humanitarian aid efforts and violate the arms embargo .
Japan says it will withdraw its air defense forces from Iraq by the end of the year .
Defense Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi announced the plan Thursday in Tokyo .
Japan 's Air Self-Defense Force has been airlifting materials and troops between Kuwait and locations in Iraq since 2006 .
White House spokesman Gordon Johndroe issued a statement praising Japan 's contributions in Iraq .
He said Japan will continue to be a " significant partner in the war on terrorism . "
Japan initially deployed ground forces to Iraq in 2003 , in support of the U.S. led-invasion .
The troops conducted a humanitarian mission in the south , building schools and roads , and providing clean water .
It was the first overseas deployment of Japanese troops since World War II .
Many Japanese opposed the mission because they were against the war or believed it violated Japan 's pacifist constitution .
Indonesian health officials say local tests show an eight-year-old boy in Jakarta has died of bird flu .
The child died last week .
A World Health Organization ( WHO ) laboratory in Hong Kong is testing samples from the boy as well as from a 39-year-old man who was earlier reported to have contracted the disease .
Indonesian health officials announced Friday that local tests showed the man had died earlier in the week of bird flu .
Results from the WHO testing are expected in several days .
If the deaths are confirmed to be caused by the bird flu virus , they will bring Indonesia 's human toll from the disease to eleven .
So far , avian flu is known to have killed nine people in Indonesia , and more than 70 in Asia since 2003 .
India has boosted security in the northern town of Ayodhya , one day before the 12th anniversary of a mosque demolition that sparked bloody riots between Hindus and Muslims .
Hundreds of soldiers are standing guard at the disputed site where Hindu extremists destroyed the 16th century Babri mosque , saying it was built by destroying a temple at the birthplace of their god-king Rama .
They say want to rebuild the temple .
The demolition triggered nationwide riots that left about 2,000 people dead , the bloodiest in India since the 1947 partition with Pakistan .
Two Hindu extremist groups , the World Hindu Council and Shiv Sena , have called for a rally near the temple town on Monday to mark the anniversary .
The dispute is now before the Indian courts .
Pakistani officials say a man accused of being an al-Qaida computer expert has been released without charge following three years in custody .
Mohammed Naeem Noor Khan was arrested in Lahore in July 2004 .
Pakistani officials said investigations of his computer led to information on active al-Qaida networks .
Khan 's lawyer Babar Awan told reporters Monday that he has returned to his home in the southern port city of Karachi .
Officials alleged that Khan acted as a link between top al-Qaida leaders and the organizations ' operational cells .
Pakistani intelligence officials say information from his computer led them to a Tanzanian wanted for the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings in East Africa , as well as terror plots in both the United States and Britain .
Khan was never charged with a crime or brought before a court .
A top South Korean official says he hopes there will be a break this year in the impasse over North Korea 's nuclear weapons program .
Unification Minister Chung Dong-Young told the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland , Sunday that South Korea is ready to provide large-scale economic aid if the North gives up its nuclear weapons program .
Mr. Chung said he hopes for a breakthrough by November , when South Korea hosts an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit .
Mr. Chung said if there is a resolution of the dispute , North Korea could attend the summit .
Sunday was the final day of the World Economic Forum - an annual gathering of international political and business leaders in the Swiss resort town of Davos .
French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier says negotiations that could lead to European Union membership for Turkey will likely not begin before late 2005 or early 2006 .
Mr. Barnier made the comments in an interview published Wednesday by the Parisian newspaper Le Figaro .
EU leaders are expected to agree to membership negotiations with Turkey at a summit next month .
Opinion surveys show that public opinion in many EU countries is sharply divided on the question of Turkish membership .
French President Jacques Chirac says he supports Turkish membership , but has promised to put the question to a referendum in his country .
US President Barack Obama returned to Washington Saturday , following a surprise visit to Afghanistan , where he visited troops and spoke with Afghan leaders .
Mr. Obama told U.S troops Friday at Bagram air base outside Kabul that the United States will not let Afghanistan be a safe haven for terrorists to attack America .
He said the troops are making progress against the Taliban and will succeed in their mission .
The president landed unannounced in Afghanistan Friday for an almost four hour visit , days before the White House is set to release a much anticipated review of the increasingly unpopular war .
Bad weather forced the White House to cancel plans for the president to meet face-to-face with Afghan President Hamid Karzai in Kabul .
He instead held a phone conversation with Mr. Karzai from the air base .
The swollen waters of the Mississippi River in the central U.S. have broken through another embankment , threatening to flood more houses and farmland .
The sandbag-reinforced levee broke early this Friday morning near the city of Winfield , in the state of Missouri , about 70 kilometers northeast of St. Louis .
Officials say it will " ultimately inundate " the town .
It is the latest of dozens of embankments to fail to contain the rain-flooded Mississippi over the past 10 days , ruining buildings and huge areas of farmland .
Authorities say the worst of the flooding is over .
But the effects are likely to continue .
The farms are major producers of corn , wheat and soybeans , prompting fears that crop losses will result in higher worldwide food prices .
A group of journalists marched through Port-au-Prince Thursday , demanding tougher action against rising violence as mourners attended the funeral of slain Haitian journalist Jacques Roche .
During the religious ceremony , a priest close to ex-president Jean Bertrand Aristide , Gerard Jean Juste was attacked by an angry crowd .
He was taken away to a police station for protection .
Mr. Aristide 's supporters have been accused by some government officials of Mr. Roche 's murder .
Haitian authorities found the body of Mr. Roche last week , days after gunmen abducted him .
They said he was burned and tortured before being shot several times .
Haiti has seen a mounting wave of violence as it prepares for elections later this year .
A bomb exploded in an industrial zone of a predominantly Christian neighborhood of Beirut Saturday night , injuring at least eight .
Police say the bomb was placed at the site in the Dikweneh neighborhood - in an area of factories , warehouses and car repair shops .
The blast shattered windows and set several building ablaze .
Police and soldiers were at the scene to cordon off the area and ambulances and fire trucks were rushed in .
The blast is making residents increasingly nervous .
This is the third bombing in a week - all have occurred in predominantly Christian areas of the city .
Lebanese opposition leaders have blamed Syria and pro-Syrian Lebanese authorities of being behind the attacks in an effort to instill fear in the community .
Lebanon has been in political turmoil since former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri was killed in a massive bomb blast in Beirut last month .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says the search for Osama bin Laden has gone completely cold , and his nation 's intelligence and security forces have no recent information about the whereabouts of the leader of the al-Qaida terrorist network .
General Musharraf , who has been meeting with President Bush and other U.S. officials in Washington , says in an interview published Sunday that Pakistani forces are aggressively pursuing Osama bin Laden , but have only been able to determine that he is still alive .
Mr. Musharraf says the United States must share responsibility for the failure to track down the al-Qaida leader , because the U.S.-led coalition does not have enough troops in neighboring Afghanistan .
After their meetings at the White House Saturday , Mr. Bush said " there is nobody more dedicated " to tracking down Osama bin Laden than Mr. Musharraf , who has twice survived assassination attempts that reportedly were traced to al-Qaida extremists .
The Ford Motor Company announced multi-billion dollar losses for the second quarter of 2008 , as well as major changes in its American auto plants .
High oil prices continue to take a toll on the U.S. automobile industry .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti drives our story .
A U.S. immigration official says several nations have refused to accept a 78-year-old Cuban militant awaiting deportation from the United States .
The official , Donald George , testified at a U.S. hearing on Monday for Luis Posada Carriles who was detained on immigration charges more than a year ago .
Lawyers for Posada Carriles say the nations that have refused to take him are Canada , Mexico , Costa Rica , Honduras , Guatemala and El Salvador .
The militant has asked to be released from custody to live with relatives in Florida while U.S. officials process the deportation order .
But U.S. officials say he is a threat and should remain in jail .
Venezuela 's government has accused Posada Carriles in the 1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner that killed 73 people .
U.S. officials have refused to send him to Venezuela or to Cuba , saying he could be tortured or killed .
A Kuwaiti activist says the first of 12 Kuwaitis captured by U.S. forces in Afghanistan and held at a U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , has returned home after three years in captivity .
The head of a committee seeking the release of the detainees said the man , Nasser al-Mutairi , arrived in Kuwait City early Sunday aboard a plane sent by the Kuwaiti government .
The United States designated more than 600 people captured in Afghanistan as enemy combatants .
Most have been held without charges , legal representation or trials .
About 200 have been released .
Families of the Kuwaiti detainees said the men were doing charity work in Afghanistan when they were captured in the U.S.-led war against the Taleban and al-Qaida after the 2001 terror attacks in the United States .
Haiti 's interim leader , Gerard Latortue , has called on donor nations to help rebuild his country .
Diplomats attending a one-day conference in Cayenne , French Guiana , Friday are discussing ways to jumpstart desperately needed donations to Haiti .
They are trying to set infrastructure and development goals needed for the Caribbean nation to overcome last February 's armed rebellion that ousted former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
In the months following last year 's political crisis , donor nations and organizations pledged $ 1.3 million for reconstruction efforts in Haiti , the Western Hemisphere 's poorest nation .
But officials say the actual amount provided , so far , is far less than donor nations promised .
Tony Lama Co. said that Equus Investment II Limited Partnership has proposed changing the offer for the company to $ 13.65 in cash and stock from an all-cash transaction .
Under terms of the new proposal , Equus , managed by Equus Capital Corp. , Houston , would pay $ 12 cash and one new preferred share with a liquidation preference of $ 1.65 a share for each of Tony Lama 's 2.1 million shares outstanding .
Previously , it offered $ 13.65 a share in cash , or $ 29 million .
The El~Paso , Texas , maker of Western boots and leather accessories said the preferred stock would accrue dividends at a 12 % rate , but would n't be paid for the first two years .
The stock would be redeemed in five years , subject to terms of the surviving company 's debt .
Neither Equus nor Tony Lama gave a reason for the changed offer and Tony Lama could n't be reached for comment .
However , Tony Lama said it would promptly submit the offer to a special committee of the company 's board .
Pakistani authorities confirm that a deadly strain of the bird flu virus has been detected near the southern city of Karachi .
Authorities say the H5N1 virus has been found at a poultry farm on the outskirts of Pakistan 's largest city .
The farm has been quarantined to prevent further spread of the virus .
Health officials say they are monitoring farm workers , but so far there is no sign of human infection .
Pakistan recorded its first human death from bird flu in December .
A man who worked on a poultry farm in North West Frontier Province died .
His brother had recently died as well , but was not tested for the virus .
Afghan authorities say two suicide bombers have killed three people and wounded eight in the southern city of Kandahar .
One of the attackers killed a former factional commander , Agha Shah , and two bystanders outside Agha Shah 's house .
Later , a second bomber blew himself up , but caused no other casualties , when police ordered him to stop near the main U.S. military base in Kandahar .
There have been two other suicide bombings in the Afghan city in less than a week , one against British officials and the other targeting Canadian troops .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed and another wounded Sunday during fighting with insurgents in Zabul province .
Separately , a U.S. military helicopter made a hard landing and caught fire during an anti-militant operation in eastern Afghanistan .
The helicopter was destroyed , but all onboard escaped unhurt .
Ukraine 's security service has denied any involvement in the poisoning of opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko .
In a statement Thursday , the State Security Service said it had nothing to do with what it called Mr. Yushchenko 's worsening health .
The pro-Western opposition leader fell ill in September during a heated presidential campaign and his face became disfigured .
Doctors say he was poisoned with dioxin .
Mr. Yushchenko told the Associated Press last week that he was probably poisoned at a September dinner with Ukrainian security agents .
Mr. Yushchenko faces pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych Sunday in a court-ordered re-vote to replace last month 's fraudulent balloting .
Russian President Vladimir Putin told reporters today he is willing to work with whoever wins .
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king .
He was neither wrathful , cruel , nor tyrannical , but just and gentle as a king could be .
During his reign he made a royal proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts , and drew up conditions for a universal league , in which the Wolf and the Lamb , the Panther and the Kid , the Tiger and the Stag , the Dog and the Hare , should live together in perfect peace and amity .
The Hare said , " Oh , how I have longed to see this day , in which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side of the strong . "
And after the Hare said this , he ran for his life .
Award-winning choreographer Michael Kidd has died at his home in Los Angeles .
A family member says Kidd was 92-years-old , and died of cancer Sunday night .
The choreographer was best known for producing exuberant dance numbers for Broadway shows such as Guys and Dolls and Can-Can .
He also worked on movies , including the 1954 film , Seven Brides for Seven Brothers .
During his long career , Kidd won five Tony Awards for his theater work .
He also earned a special Academy Award in 1997 in recognition of his choreography for movies .
President Viktor Yushchenko says he will dismiss Ukraine 's chief veterinary official , Petro Verbytsky , for his handling of the bird flu crisis .
President Yushchenko made the announcement Monday as he was visiting an area of the Crimea suddenly hit by the deadly virus .
He said the veterinary service had not been prepared for the health crisis .
The president also urged local authorities to consider firing Crimean veterinary service leaders .
Experts are investigating the recent deaths of hundreds of birds .
It is not yet known whether they succumbed to the H5N1 strain of the flu , which can be spread to humans .
Also Monday , Russia banned poultry imports from Ukraine .
A U.S.-launched spacecraft orbiting the planet Mars has begun sending back some of the most finely detailed pictures ever of the surface of the so-called red planet .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , announced Friday that images from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter have begun arriving .
They show rocks and features as small as armchairs on the planet 's surface .
The craft is particularly close to the planet 's surface during this point in its orbit , giving scientists extra help in their hunt for surface details that may indicate the presence of water sometime in the past .
Scientists theorize that water may have made it possible for Mars to sustain life .
This spacecraft began orbiting Mars in March .
Scientists say it will return more data about the planet than all past Mars missions combined .
Colombian rebels have released all 29 police officers taken hostage during a recent attack on the remote western village of San Marino .
Officials in Bogota say army troops found the officers walking in the jungle in Choco state Tuesday .
They were taken hostage last Saturday in a raid by rebels that left eight other police officers dead .
One of the released officers said his captors included rebels from Colombia 's two main guerrilla groups - the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , known as FARC , and the smaller National Liberation Army , or ELN .
Meanwhile , in Havana , exploratory peace talks between Colombian President Alvaro Uribe 's government and the ELN rebels are nearing completion .
Officials say details on an agenda for formal talks should be available Wednesday .
The ELN and the FARC have been battling to topple the government in 41 years of civil war .
The conflict leaves thousands dead each year .
An Eagle swooped down upon a Serpent and seized it in his talons with the intention of carrying it off and devouring it .
But the Serpent was too quick for him and had its coils round him in a moment ; and then there ensued a life-and-death struggle between the two .
A countryman , who was a witness of the encounter , came to the assistance of the eagle , and succeeded in freeing him from the Serpent and enabling him to escape .
In revenge , the Serpent spat some of his poison into the man 's drinking-horn .
Heated with his exertions , the man was about to slake his thirst with a draught from the horn , when the Eagle knocked it out of his hand , and spilled its contents upon the ground .
" One good turn deserves another . "
The U.S. military is delivering 50,000 hand-held radios to Haiti for survivors of the recent earthquakes .
The U.S. Department of Defense said Wednesday it expects the radios to arrive later this week .
It said the joint task force will then distribute the radios to the public .
The military said survivors can use the radios to receive news and important information concerning international relief efforts .
It also says its forces are working closely with the Haitian government to broadcast public safety messages for survivors on FM frequencies of 92.4 mhz and 104.1 mhz and the AM radio frequency of 1030 khz .
The radios are powered by solar energy and hand cranks instead of batteries , a potentially helpful asset in a nation short on basic supplies .
Venezuela has signed a deal with Russia for the purchase of 98 Ilyushin aircraft , which can be used for passengers and cargo .
Russian newspapers reported Friday that the state arms exporter , Rosoboronexport , signed the agreement during an air show near Moscow .
The value of the contract has not been disclosed .
The Izvestia newspaper quoted experts as saying the deal could be worth several billion dollars .
Russia has already sold 24 Sukhoi jets and 53 helicopters to Venezuela .
Last year during a visit to Moscow , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez signed a long-term deal with Russia to purchase $ 3 billion worth of helicopters , fighter jets and arms .
The United States bans sales of arms to Venezuela .
For more a year , the U.S. military in Iraq , with its reinforcements , has been on the offensive in an effort to wipe out insurgents from their strongholds .
The Bush administration claims " the surge , " as the reinforcement was called , has helped reduce violence around the country .
One key area of focus , just south of Baghdad , was once known as the " Triangle of Death . "
VOA 's Deborah Block went to a village there with the U.S. Army 's 2nd Battalion , 502nd Infantry , 101st Airborne , on a mission to find suspected al-Qaida militants .
Former New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik has abruptly withdrawn his name from consideration to be U.S. Homeland Security Secretary , prompting the search for a new candidate .
In a letter to the White House , Mr. Kerik says he has uncovered information which has caused him to question the immigration status of a nanny he had employed .
He said that it had also come to his attention that he had not paid the required taxes for her employment with his family .
Mr. Kerik informed the president of his decision late Friday .
The White House said President Bush accepted Mr. Kerik 's decision .
Mr. Bush nominated Mr. Kerik last week to succeed Tom Ridge as head of the 180,000 employee department .
Iraqi officials say at least $ 1 billion disappeared from Iraq 's defense ministry during the interim government of Iyad Allawi .
The officials call the situation one of the largest thefts in history .
They say it left the Defense Ministry with almost no money to buy arms , further complicating its fight against insurgents .
The money was supposed to be spent on weapons , but current Iraqi officials say contracts for the arms were awarded without bidding , signed with intermediaries instead of directly with the suppliers , and prices were inflated .
Among the items purchased during the period in question were 28-year-old Polish helicopters .
Mr. Allawi 's defense minister , Hazem Shaalan , denied allegations of irregularities , saying government committees oversaw all the deals .
Egypt says it plans to deport some 650 Sudanese asylum-seekers dispersed by police from a make-shift camp in downtown Cairo last week .
A foreign ministry spokeswoman , Fatma el-Zahraa Etman , said that those set for deportation on Thursday were found to be illegal immigrants or had broken Egyptian law .
The Sudanese migrants were among a group of about 1,000 who clashed with police last week .
Twenty-seven people were killed in the violence .
Egyptian officials said the deaths were caused by a stampede , but witnesses said police beat the Sudanese .
The migrants had been camped out for three months near the offices of the U.N. refugee agency , demanding to be resettled in a third country .
Officials for the U.N. agency expressed shock at the last week 's clashes , saying they had been trying to negotiate a peaceful resolution .
A huge slick of toxic chemicals has entered Russian territory from China after flowing downstream from a chemical-plant explosion last month .
Russia 's Emergency Situations Minister , Sergei Shoigu , says the slick crossed the border Friday , but initial tests show pollution levels in the Amur River lower than feared .
The blast on November 13 poured 100 tons of benzene and other poisons into the Songhua River , which flowed past the Chinese city of Harbin into Russia .
Harbin residents were without running water as the toxic slick passed .
Russia 's Far East Meteorological Service says foul water will begin flowing past Khabarovsk , a city of more than 500,000 people , within a week .
Environmental officials say the benzene in the river should be so diluted that no interruption of municipal water service in Khabarovsk will be necessary .
Palestinian witnesses say an Israeli aircraft has fired missiles at suspected Hamas militants preparing to fire rockets at Israeli targets in the Gaza Strip .
There were no immediate reports of casualties near the Khan Younis refugee camp , where the suspected militants were located .
Witnesses said that several men apparently targeted by the aircraft escaped unharmed .
On Tuesday , four Palestinians and a Chinese laborer were killed in the Palestinian territories , in the deadliest day of violence since Israel and the Palestinians began observing a ceasefire four months ago .
Three of the dead were killed by Hamas rocket fire in Gaza .
In related developments , Israeli media say some top security officials are lobbying the government to deliver a " crushing blow " to Hamas , ahead of Israel 's planned evacuation of the Gaza Strip in August .
Palestinians formally opened the campaign to replace their late leader Yasser Arafat Saturday , as the registration period began for potential candidates for the January 9 ballot .
Former Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas , Mr. Arafat 's successor as head of the powerful Palestine Liberation Organization , is expected to be the leading contender if his Fatah faction chooses him as its candidate .
Candidates not put forward by a party must submit 5,000 signatures of support and $ 3,000 .
Among those planning to make bids are former Hamas leader Sheikh Talal Sidr and university professor Abdel Sattar Qassem .
On Friday , French officials released Mr. Arafat 's medical records to his wife Suha .
They said they will also give them to Mr. Arafat 's nephew , Palestinian envoy Nasser al-Kidwa , if he asks for them .
Palestinian officials say they want to get the records to know Mr. Arafat 's cause of death .
Ecuador 's constituent assembly has approved a new draft constitution that will be put to a referendum in September .
The new charter approved late Thursday would grant President Rafael Correa broad powers , including functions currently held by the Central Bank .
It would also modify term limits , allowing him to seek re-election .
President Correa has said the constitution should be changed to limit the power of Ecuador 's major political parties .
However opposition members say the real reason for the change of constitution is to keep the leftist president in power and increase his control of the country .
Citizens of Nepal 's capital , Kathmandu , have begun to suffer shortages of food and fuel as pro-democracy protests and strikes entered their 11th day .
On Sunday , police used teargas and rubber bullets against demonstrators , while an alliance of seven political parties urged people to stop paying taxes to put pressure on King Gyanendra to restore democracy .
The political parties also called on international donors to halt aid to the royalist government .
Gasoline has become hard to find , and the price of vegetables has skyrocketed since strikes interrupted deliveries of food and gasoline to the capital .
The street campaign has intensified since the king dismissed the elected government and seized absolute power 14 months ago .
The king said he took the action because the politicians failed to control a Maoist rebellion .
Anti-royalists have called for a mass protest on Thursday .
A DOG lay in a manger , and by his growling and snapping prevented the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them .
" What a selfish Dog ! " said one of them to his companions ; " he can not eat the hay himself , and yet refuses to allow those to eat who can . "
Egypt 's President Hosni Mubarak says he advised the United States not to launch military action against Iran , saying it could trigger violence across the Middle East .
A state-run newspaper , al-Gomhouria , Wednesday quoted Mr. Mubarak as saying he discussed the issue with Vice President Dick Cheney , who visited Egypt in January .
President Bush has said he is open to all possible options for dealing with Iran , including military intervention .
But he said that would be the last option .
Washington accuses Iran of sponsoring terrorists and secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
In Wednesday 's published comments , Mr. Mubarak said he warned that a possible attack on Iran would anger Shi'ites in Iraq and other Middle Eastern nations .
He said military action would spark revenge attacks from Hezbollah militants in Lebanon and insurgents in Iraq .
Kyrgyzstan 's provisional leader Roza Otunbayeva was sworn in as president Saturday , making her the first female president in the history of ex-Soviet Central Asia .
Her inauguration in a concert hall in Bishkek comes just days after the country overwhelmingly approved a new constitution .
Over the course of her tenure as caretaker president , which lasts to the end of 2011 , Ms. Otunbayeva will oversee the implementation of the new constitution and the establishment of the region 's first parliamentary democracy .
Parliamentary elections are set for October 10 .
Kyrgyzstan 's interim government has struggled to impose order since it took power following the April 7 deadly uprising that ousted President Kurmanbek Bakiyev .
An estimated 2,000 people were killed during ethnic clashes between Kyrgyz and Uzbeks that began June 10 in the southern cities of Osh and Jalalabad .
An Iraqi commander involved in a daring rescue by Iraqi and U.S. troops says accounts of the incident by some Shi'ite officials are not true .
At least 16 people were killed in the operation Sunday .
The Iraqi special forces commander , whose identity was not disclosed , spoke Wednesday to Western reporters from Time magazine and CBS News .
He disputed accusations from some Shi'ite officials that U.S. forces raided a Baghdad mosque and killed innocent civilians .
He insisted his troops had to fight their way into the target building and kill gunmen guarding a hostage .
He said his men did not find prayer mats or books , which are usually found in a mosque .
He said they found weapons and instruments of torture .
The hostage freed in the operation confirms the commander 's version .
Ukraine 's Prime Minister Yuriy Yekhanurov says the signing of a controversial natural gas deal with Russia has been postponed again .
The signing had already been delayed from Saturday to Wednesday .
But Yekhanurov says experts continue to work on documents .
A draft agreement , reached January 4 , calls for Ukraine to pay Russia $ 95 per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas , nearly twice as much as the previous rate .
The agreement triggered a political crisis in Ukraine , and parliament voted to dismiss the government .
Meanwhile , the prime minister urged Ukrainian industry to sharply cut the use of natural gas , warning that otherwise authorities will have to cut off supplies .
Earlier , Russian officials again accused Ukraine of siphoning off supplies Russia is sending through Ukrainian pipelines to other European countries .
Some had complained of reduced flows as they sought to deal with frigid temperatures .
Delegates from most African countries are attending a U.N.-sponsored conference in Zimbabwe on improving food safety on the continent .
During Monday 's session , the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization warned that food-borne diseases are a serious threat in Africa .
Both U.N. agencies said improved food safety would help reduce an estimated 2,000 deaths per day in Africa from food and waterborne diseases .
Experts at the four-day conference will try to strengthen existing systems to ensure safer food to improve health and agricultural trade opportunities .
Host Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe opened the conference in Harare .
The French news agency reports Mr. Mugabe defended his seizure of white-owned farms to be given to landless blacks as a way of bringing food to the people .
Relief agencies blame the policy for disrupting Zimbabwe 's agricultural output and creating serious food shortages .
HAVING been summoned to serve as a juror , a Prominent Citizen sent a physician 's certificate stating that he was afflicted with softening of the brain .
" The gentleman is excused , " said the Judge , handing back the certificate to the person who had brought it , " he has a brain . "
NATO officials say British troops are pulling out of a troubled district in southern Afghanistan after reaching an agreement with local elders and Afghan officials .
NATO said Tuesday , that the withdrawal from the Musa Qala district of Helmand province was made at the demand of tribal leaders , and that the Taleban had no part in the agreement .
The move was made on the same day that NATO officials said coalition warplanes killed a mid-level Taleban commander and up to 15 other militants in an airstrike in southern Afghanistan .
A NATO statement said aircraft bombed an insurgent compound in the southern province of Uruzgan .
NATO did not identify the Taleban commander .
Egypt 's culture minister says police have recovered the Vincent van Gogh painting that was stolen from a Cairo museum earlier Saturday .
Farouk Hosni said security officials at the Cairo airport have arrested two Italian nationals who were trying to leave the country with the painting .
The painting by the Dutch artist is valued at about $ 50 million .
It goes by two titles , Poppy Flowers and Vase with Flowers .
Japan Airlines says it will purchase 30 Boeing 7E7 Dreamliner aircraft , with an option to buy 20 more .
The price of the deal was not disclosed , but could be around $ 4 billion .
Japan Airlines is expected to receive its first Boeing Dreamliner in 2008 .
Boeing and European rival Airbus were competing for the Japan Airlines deal .
Boeing and Airbus have been battling in recent months to win contracts with Asian airliners .
Boeing recently reached a deal with Japan 's All Nippon Airways , while Airbus inked a contract with Malaysia 's AirAsia .
Dozens of Egyptians protested in front of the country 's high court Tuesday calling for the release of an opposition leader who was jailed four weeks ago on what his supporters say are false charges .
Riot police stood nearby , as supporters of al-Ghad party leader Ayman Nour peacefully protested , chanting slogans and waving photos of the imprisoned legislator .
Mr. Nour has been held on charges of forging signatures to secure a license to establish his al-Ghad party last year .
He denies the accusations .
His supporters say his arrest was politically motivated , because he has been a vocal advocate of constitutional reform .
The United States voiced its concern over Mr. Nour 's detention during a meeting in Washington two weeks ago between Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit .
Authorities in Malawi say two youths were shot and wounded when a guard fired on a crowd fighting to get government-subsidized maize .
The incident occurred earlier this week in Malawi 's drought-stricken southern district of Nsanje .
Police say the guard fired while trying to control a crush of people attempting to force their way into a government depot .
Malawi is facing a general food crisis brought on by poor rainfall , inadequate planting supplies , and the impact of the AIDS pandemic .
In October , the government declared a national disaster and appealed for help .
Aid agencies say five million of Malawi 's 12 million people are in need of food aid .
British police have detained three people at Heathrow Airport under the nation 's anti-terrorism act , but officials did not connect the arrests to the London bombings .
At a news conference Sunday , a senior police official , Commander Brian Paddick , called the arrests routine and said it would be inappropriate to draw any direct link with last week 's terror attacks .
The official said police have so far received 1,700 calls to a special anti-terrorist tip line .
Authorities have asked people to send in cell-phone camera images or other information that might help identify the bombers .
Meanwhile , crime scene and recovery crews continued working in a narrow , dark subway tunnel near Russell Square Sunday .
The official count of fatalities remained at 49 but is expected to rise as workers search through the debris .
Iraqi police say gunmen have killed two police officers , one soldier , a grandmother and her grandchild , in a series of attacks in the restive northern city of Mosul .
Police say the three security officers died as assailants carried out drive-by shootings on multiple checkpoints in the city .
In a separate incident , unknown gunmen stormed a house in western Mosul , killing a woman and her young grandchild , who was about 2 or 3 years old .
Police did not provide further details about that attack .
Elsewhere in Iraq , authorities say at least six people were wounded in a car bombing in the capital Sunday .
They say the bomb blast occurred in eastern Baghdad 's Shi'ite Baladiyat district .
The United States has announced a $ 481- million aid package aimed at reducing poverty in Burkina Faso .
A statement from the U.S. government 's Millennium Challenge Corporation says the five-year agreement will help the west African nation improve roads , agricultural productivity , and primary education for girls .
The grant was announced Monday in Washington after a signing ceremony attended by Burkina Faso 's President Blaise Compaore and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
The Millennium Challenge Corporation gives grants to countries that show a commitment to good governance , economic freedom and the elimination of extreme poverty .
The Bush administration launched the fund in 2004 .
The U.S. military has filed charges against six Marines accused of assaulting Iraqi civilians in the Iraqi town Hamdania .
The men , charged Thursday , are being held in a military jail at Camp Pendleton , a Marine base in southern California .
The alleged assaults occurred April 10 .
Three of the Marines charged are also accused of involvement in a separate case , the killing of an Iraqi civilian April 26 , also in Hamdania .
Five other Marines are also charged with that crime .
Thursday 's assault case is the latest in charges of violence by U.S. servicemen against Iraqi civilians .
The military is investigating allegations that U.S. Marines killed 24 Iraqis in the town of Haditha , while four U.S. Army soldiers have been charged in the rape and murder of an Iraqi girl .
Those soldiers are also charged with killing three members of her family .
Indian and U.S. officials are holding more talks in New Delhi Friday to try to reach an agreement on nuclear energy cooperation before President Bush visits India next week .
Indian Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran and U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns are leading the negotiations .
Washington has offered to provide India with civilian nuclear technology , but wants to ensure New Delhi does not use the equipment for military purposes .
Burns said Thursday that differences remain between the two sides , and he is not sure an agreement will be ready by next week .
President Bush said Wednesday he wants to come home from India with a deal on the nuclear issue so he can start promoting it to Congress , which must give its approval .
Some U.S. lawmakers oppose transferring nuclear technology to India , arguing that would undermine the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty , which India has not signed .
Representatives from hundreds of oil companies around the world are bidding for new oil exploration contracts in Nigeria .
Nigeria is offering the rights to over 70 parcels of land Friday in the largest open bidding in the country 's history .
The land stretches from Lake Chad in the northeast to the Gulf of Guinea in the south , where huge oil discoveries have already been made .
Also Friday , the Nigerian government raised domestic oil prices by about 40 percent .
Although Nigeria is the continent 's top crude oil exporter , it has to import refined oil and has been affected by record high oil prices .
Nigerian labor unions say they will fight the price hike .
A shootout between gunmen and security forces has killed nine people at the offices of an Italian oil company in southern Nigeria .
The company , Eni , says it has temporarily evacuated staff and contractors from its base in the city of Port Harcourt .
Witnesses say the dead include eight policemen and one civilian .
The company says a number of people were also wounded in Tuesday 's attack .
According to several accounts , the gunmen raided the offices , exchanged fire with police , and robbed a bank on the premises before making their escape .
It was unclear if the gunmen are linked to militants who have staged a recent series of attacks on Nigerian oil facilities .
The attacks have led to an estimated 10-percent drop in Nigerian oil production , putting pressure on world prices .
A major winter storm has hit both the U.S. midwest and northeastern part of the country , as well as eastern Canada .
Sunday 's wintry blast caused hazardous driving conditions and resulted in hundreds of flight cancellations at local airports .
Officials say both Chicago and Boston have received up more than 25 centimeters of snow .
In addition , authorities say at least 40 centimeters is expected in Canada .
The storm follows last week 's ice storm in the U.S. Midwest which contributed to the death of at least 13 people and left thousands of homes and businesses without power .
Canadian meteorologists call the storm a dangerous one .
There are fresh allegations that prisoners under U.S. custody in Iraq and Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , suffered serious physical abuse from their interrogators .
Agents from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation describe the abuse in newly-released e-mails obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union .
In one e-mail , an FBI agent says he saw Guantanamo prisoners chained to the floor for up to 24 hours and left to defacate on themselves .
In another , the FBI reports that an unnamed individual saw Iraqi civilian detainees being beaten and strangled .
The e-mails also allege that Guantanamo military interrogators posed as FBI agents to avoid accountability for their deeds .
The White House has denied one allegation in the e-mail that President Bush signed an executive order approving certain interrogation techniques .
Companies in the United States slashed their stockpiles of goods and supplies in December , a sign the U.S. economy may be forced to shed more jobs .
Wholesale inventories have now fallen for four consecutive months as companies try to reduce their inventories to match the drop in consumer spending .
But the data suggests they are not slashing stockpiles fast enough .
The Commerce Department report says wholesale inventories fell 1.4 percent last month , while sales at the wholesale level fell at a faster 3.6 percent pace .
The data mean that wholesalers are ordering fewer goods , which could force factories to lower production and eliminate jobs .
China 's official news agency says a 31-year-old poultry farmer is the country 's fifth confirmed human case of bird flu , but the woman has since been released from the hospital after her condition improved .
The Xinhua news agency says the woman from Heishan County , Liaoning province in China 's northeast became sick with pneumonia-like symptoms on October 30 and was hospitalized .
Her condition improved and she was discharged on November 29 .
Tests later showed the woman had contracted the deadly H5N1 strain of avian flu .
Health officials are now monitoring people who had contact with her .
Wednesday , China announced its fourth human victim of bird flu , a 10-year-old girl in southern Guangxi region .
She remains hospitalized .
Since 2003 , the H5N1 virus has killed nearly 70 people , mostly in southeast Asia .
Witnesses say three British citizens have been kidnapped by gunmen in the southern Gaza Strip , after crossing into the territory from Egypt .
Security officials in Gaza say one of the victims is a human rights worker .
There was no claim of responsibility , and Palestinian authorities say they have begun a search .
Recent kidnappings in Gaza have ended peacefully with the hostages released unharmed .
In several cases , the kidnappers were either seeking jobs with the Palestinian Authority , or the release of imprisoned relatives .
Iran has warned the European Union that Tehran will never surrender its right to nuclear fuel .
A spokesman for Iran 's Supreme National Security Council said Saturday EU negotiators can offer no incentive that would compel the Islamic republic to abandon its nuclear program .
Britain , France and Germany have asked Tehran to surrender its fuel-making program in return for economic incentives .
Tehran insists it has every right to enrich uranium for reactors to make electricity .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly developing nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
Israeli doctors say Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has moved his right arm and leg in response to pain tests as they gradually bring him out of a medically-induced coma .
Dr. Shlomo Mor-Yosef told reporters at Jerusalem 's Hadassah Hospital that Mr. Sharon 's movements became increasingly significant as doctors reduced his anesthesia dosage Monday .
But he added that Mr. Sharon remains sedated and in serious condition .
Doctors had kept Mr. Sharon , 77 , in a deep state of unconsciousness since he suffered a brain hemorrhage last Wednesday .
Doctors say they are monitoring Mr. Sharon 's condition and that it is too early to discuss his brain function .
The doctors have said the Israeli leader 's chances of survival are good , but that he will probably not be able to continue as prime minister .
My housecat went down to the local military recruiting depot to sign up for the service .
He came back about two hours later and sadly explained that he could n't enlist because he would have to be " de-furred " .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has arrived in China for a four-day visit expected to include an appeal for China to speed up reforms to its economy .
Officials say Paulson arrived late Tuesday in the eastern city of Hangzhou in Zhejiang province .
There he met with provincial Communist Party leader Xi Jinping .
The two met previously when Paulson was chief of the investment bank Goldman Sachs .
The U.S. treasury secretary flew into Hangzhou from meetings in Singapore .
Before leaving for China , Paulson warned U.S. critics of Chinese economic policies not to expect a " quick fix " to the issues that divide the two nations .
U.S. lawmakers are considering measures to punish Beijing for its growing trade gap with the United States .
U.S. and European officials say China 's currency , the yuan , is undervalued , giving Chinese-made products an unfair advantage over foreign competitors .
U.S. President George Bush used his weekly radio address Saturday to mark the nation 's Independence Day by celebrating new U.S. citizens and honoring the armed forces .
On Friday , the 232nd anniversary of the birth of the U.S. as an independent nation , Mr. Bush watched more than 70 people take an oath of citizenship .
In his address Saturday , the president said these new citizens reminded everyone at the ceremony that " the promise of America is open to all . "
Mr. Bush noted that the new citizens came from many countries , including Iraq and Afghanistan .
He also praised the men and women of the U.S. armed forces who are risking their lives fighting in those countries .
The president said Americans should be proud to live in a nation that he says has done " more than any other to spread the light of liberty throughout the world . "
Belarusian opposition leader Alexander Milinkevich says the democratic movement in Belarus will eventually achieve success despite the repressive policies of President Alexander Lukashenko .
Mr. Milinkevich told reporters in Warsaw the persistent protests of opposition activists against what they saw as Mr. Lukashenko 's fraudulent victory in elections earlier this month had surprised and shocked the Belarusian leader .
Security police last week broke up five days of protests by pro-democracy activists in Minsk , arresting hundreds .
In comments after meeting with Polish President Lech Kaczynski , Mr. Milinkevich thanked Poland and other European Union countries for their support for democracy in Belarus .
The meeting came ahead of the signing of a document under which Poland agreed to provide scholarships for at least 300 Belarusian youths dismissed from universities in Belarus for supporting the opposition .
The U.S. dollar dropped to another record low compared to the euro on Tuesday .
At one point , it took more than $ 1.31 to buy each euro .
The latest record-low for the dollar follows speculation that Russia may increase the number of euros it holds in foreign currency reserves .
Analysts say the American currency is declining largely because of concern over the huge U.S. trade deficit .
The weak dollar makes U.S.-made exports more competitive on world markets .
It also makes French wines , German cars and other goods imported to the U.S. market more expensive for U.S. consumers .
Economists say the dollar 's decline will help close the gap between what U.S. companies sell abroad and what U.S. consumers buy from foreign companies .
Afghan officials say at least eight police have been killed following an ambush by suspected Taleban rebels in southeastern Afghanistan .
Security officials say four Taleban insurgents were also killed in the attack Friday in Helmand province .
No other details were immediately available .
An interior ministry spokesman said captured Taleban insurgents led police there to look for a large Taleban hideout .
The White House says President Bush will welcome Rwandan President Paul Kagame next Wednesday for talks on a range of issues , including development , AIDS and the conflict in Sudan .
A White House spokesman says President Bush looks forward to discussing Rwanda 's successful participation in the president 's emergency plan for AIDS relief ( PEPFAR ) , as well as U.S. development assistance for the continent ( the African Growth and Opportunity Act ) .
He said the two will also talk about Rwanda 's strides toward democracy and reconciliation and the important role of women in advancing these issues .
The spokesman said President Bush will recognize Rwanda 's contributions to stability in the Great Lakes region and its peacekeeping contributions to Sudan .
Israeli forces hunting for militants in northern Gaza shot and killed a 16-year-old Palestinian Sunday .
Witnesses in the town of Beit Lahiya say it appeared Israeli fire was aimed at the teenager because he had been standing near a rocket launcher used by militants a short time earlier .
Palestinian security officials ( who asked not to be identified ) say the teenager may have been in the area by accident , and that he had no connection with the rocket fired into Israel .
Israeli military officials gave a roughly similar account of the incident , but said they believed they were firing at a member of a militant group .
Israel 's military has been trying to suppress Palestinian rocket fire from Gaza for months .
Fighting intensified recently when Israeli troops staged major incursions into northern Gaza .
Hundreds of Iraqi Shi'ites have gathered on the streets of Baghdad 's Sadr City district to celebrate the death sentence handed down to deposed Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein .
Residents of the Shi'ite suburb danced , waved flags and set fire to pictures of Saddam .
The district is controlled by the Shi'ite Mahdi militia , which largely ignored a strict curfew imposed on the rest of the Iraqi capital .
Other parts of the Iraqi capital were largely quiet as the curfew remains in place .
It is aimed at preventing outbreaks of sectarian fighting over the Saddam verdict .
However , officials say gunmen fought with police in northern Baghdad 's Azamiyah district , which is dominated by Sunni Muslims .
Several Iraqi Sunni politicians have criticized the death sentence on Saddam - a Sunni - and warned it could spark greater bloodshed between Sunnis and Shi'ites .
A list of victims of accused swindler Bernard Madoff has been made public .
The 162-page document names several thousand clients who invested with Madoff , including charitable foundations , celebrities , Madoff 's relatives and even his attorney .
The document was filed late Wednesday with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan .
Among the names are legendary baseball pitcher Sandy Koufax , New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon , Columbia University , and finance institutions Bank of America Corporation and Citigroup .
Prosecutors accuse the 70-year-old Madoff of operating a years-long massive pyramid scheme that illegally used money from new investors to pay previous ones .
Officials say the fraud may have cost investors $ 50 billion .
Madoff has not been indicted and is currently under house arrest at his multi-million dollar apartment in New York .
The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean , Atlantic Ocean , Indian Ocean , and the recently delimited Southern Ocean ) .
The Northwest Passage ( US and Canada ) and Northern Sea Route ( Norway and Russia ) are two important seasonal waterways .
In recent years the polar ice pack has thinned allowing for increased navigation and raising the possibility of future sovereignty and shipping disputes among countries bordering the Arctic Ocean .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has made an unannounced visit to Afghanistan .
Mr. Brown arrived Saturday and spoke to British troops at camps in the southern Helmand province .
He thanked them for their role in a February assault in Marjah , a former Taliban stronghold in the province .
And he promised additional equipment and resources .
On Friday in London , Mr. Brown defended Britain 's decision to help invade Iraq .
He served as treasury chief when his country entered the war in 2003 , and he made decisions about defense spending .
In Afghanistan , the prime minister rejected criticism from conservatives who said he made the trip to divert attention away from the Iraq inquiry .
Mr. Brown said he had planned the trip to Afghanistan for some time .
British troops were withdrawn from Iraq , but about 10,000 are now serving in Afghanistan alongside U.S. and NATO forces .
Belarus has set December 19 as the date for the next presidential election .
Incumbent Alexander Lukashenko , who has been in power since 1994 , is likely to run for another term .
The political opposition in Belarus is fragmented and Mr. Lukashenko 's government maintains tight control over the media .
The autocratic Mr. Lukashenko has done away with presidential term limits and international observers have declared past elections as undemocratic .
Former U.S. President George W. Bush dubbed Mr. Lukashenko as " Europe 's last dictator . "
Controversial British historian David Irving is to go on trial in Austria Monday on charges of denying the Nazi Holocaust during World War II .
Irving has been in custody since November when he was arrested for allegedly denying the Holocaust at meetings in Austria in 1989 .
He faces up to 10 years in prison for his public denial , which is illegal in Austria .
The 67-year-old Irving has written a number of controversial books including Hitler 's War , in which he challenges the extent of the Holocaust .
He says Hitler knew nothing about the extermination of some six million Jews and actually tried to protect them .
Over the years , Irving has lost several legal battles over his views .
The SANTOS administration has highlighted five " locomotives " to stimulate economic growth : extractive industries ; agriculture ; infrastructure ; housing ; and innovation .
Colombia is third largest exporter of oil to the United States .
President SANTOS , inaugurated in August 2010 , introduced unprecedented legislation to better distribute extractive industry royalties and compensate Colombians who lost their land due to decades of violence .
He also seeks to build on improvements in domestic security and on President URIBE 's promarket economic policies .
Foreign direct investment reached a record $ 10 billion in 2008 , but dropped to $ 7.2 billion in 2009 , before beginning to recover in 2010 , notably in the oil sector .
Pro-business reforms in the oil and gas sectors and export-led growth , fueled mainly by the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act , have enhanced Colombia 's investment climate .
Inequality , underemployment , and narcotrafficking remain significant challenges , and Colombia 's infrastructure requires major improvements to sustain economic expansion .
Because of the global financial crisis and weakening demand for Colombia 's exports , Colombia 's economy grew only 2.7 % in 2008 , and 0.8 % in 2009 but rebounded to around 4.4 % in 2010 .
In late 2010 , Colombia experienced its most severe flooding in decades , with damages estimated to exceed $ 6 billion .
The government has encouraged exporters to diversify their customer base beyond the United States and Venezuela , traditionally Colombia 's largest trading partners ; the SANTOS administration continues to pursue free trade agreements with Asian and South American partners and a trade accord with Canada is expected to go into effect in 2011 , while a negotiated trade agreement with the EU has yet to be approved by the EU parliament .
Improved relations with Venezuela have eased worries about restrictions on bilateral trade , but the business sector remains concerned about the pending US Congressional approval of the US-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement .
Opposition parties in Ethiopia say they will boycott parliamentary elections scheduled for Sunday in a remote eastern part of the country .
The main opposition parties in the Somali region accused the ruling party Tuesday of harassing their supporters and illegally distributing ballots .
Voters in Somali are electing members of parliament more than three months after the rest of the country went to the polls because of heavy rains in the region .
Ethiopia 's election board has already announced the ruling Ethiopian People 's Revolutionary Democratic Front party has won a majority of seats in parliament .
The opposition has rejected those results and said it may challenge the ruling in court .
Both the opposition and ruling parties have accused the other of fraud in the May 15 poll .
Shortly after the vote , security forces fired on anti-government protesters , killing 36 people .
The kidnappers of an Italian photojournalist in Afghanistan say he is in good health after the deadline for their demands expired Sunday night .
The Italian aid group Emergency said Monday the kidnappers contacted its staff in an Italian-run hospital in southern Helmand province .
Italian photographer Gabriele Torsello and his interpreter disappeared between October 12 and 14 .
They were traveling from the Helmand provincial capital , Lashkar Gah , to neighboring Kandahar .
The abductors demanded a withdrawal of Italian forces from Afghanistan by the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , which ended Sunday evening in that country .
Torsello 's abductors have been in contact with the Emergency group since the abduction .
They said earlier they would kill him if their demands were not met .
European government ministers have pledged nearly $ 13 billion to fund an ambitious plan for space exploration , including a mission to place a robotic exploration vehicle on Mars .
European Space Agency director Jean-Jacques Dordain said the projects agreed on Wednesday by the agency 's 18 member states include satellites to monitor climate change and a long list of experiments for the International Space Station .
The money will also fund updates to the Ariane rocket , which carries European payloads into space .
The so-called ExoMars project is set to blast off in 2016 , carrying a landing rover to Mars which will drill two meters into the planet 's surface to take soil samples .
Ministers capped ExoMars at nearly $ 1.3 billion , a sum that falls short of its target .
The remaining $ 260 million is expected to be raised with funding from the United States or Russia .
The next U.S. president is likely to have an impact that extends far beyond a four-year term .
As president , Republican John McCain or Democrat Barack Obama would have the chance to appoint at least one new justice to the U.S. Supreme Court .
Alex Moradi has this report , narrated by Leta Hong Fincher .
The Asian Development Bank has issued a $ 2.7-million grant to Afghanistan to improve the country 's road system in rural areas .
The grant will go to training highway engineers at Kabul Polytechnic University as well as to the Ministry of Public Works .
The ADB said on Tuesday that the purpose of the grants is to help people in Afghanistan 's backcountry gain better access to the center of the country .
The grants will be applied to a road master plan that was earlier developed with ADB assistance .
China 's government-run media say the country 's top advisory body ended its annual session Monday after adopting a resolution to strongly oppose Taiwan independence efforts .
The Xinhua news agency reports the resolution noted that Taiwan 's leaders have accelerated what it termed " dangerous " steps toward independence .
The agency urged all Chinese to resolutely oppose and check independence forces and activities .
The resolution wrapped up the National Committee of the Chinese People 's Political Consultative Conference that opened March 3 in Beijing .
Xinhua says the purpose of the body is to conduct political consultation and debate issues of state .
This year 's session was attended by more than two thousand advisors from across the country .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian recently raised cross-strait tensions by scrapping guidelines and a group dedicated to Taiwan 's eventual unification with mainland China .
Iraq has welcomed Iran 's foreign minister to Baghdad , as the two former warring nations continue to improve relations .
Kamal Kharrazi is the highest-ranking Iranian official to visit Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein more than two years ago .
Mr. Kharrazi is due to hold talks with Iraq 's Shi'ite prime minister , Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
He also will meet with his Iraqi counterpart , Hoshyar Zebari .
Iraq 's new prime minister and several members of his Shi'ite-dominated government have close ties with the Islamic regime in mainly Shi'ite Iran .
Under Saddam Hussein , Iraq fought a devastating eight-year war with Iran , and more than a million people were killed .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud has rejected a proposal for a United Nations-backed court probe into the murder of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Lahoud said Saturday he is returning the draft for review by the Cabinet , which approved the planned court last month .
He said the Cabinet 's decision was not valid because it came after six ministers from the pro-Syrian opposition resigned .
Hezbollah leaders have called mass demonstrations on Sunday to press for more participation by opposition parties in the government .
Prime Minister Fuad Siniora has accused the militant group of threatening a coup against his U.S.-backed government .
On Friday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed concern that extremist forces and Syria and Iran are trying to destabilize Lebanon .
She said such pressure on Mr. Siniora 's government can not be tolerated .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he will press for expanding trade and economic ties with Slovakia during his visit to the former communist region .
Following Thursday 's meeting with President Bush in Bratislava , Mr. Putin will hold talks with Slovak President Ivan Gasparovic and other officials during his two-day visit .
Mr. Putin told Slovak media Tuesday relations between the two countries were improving and in keeping with Moscow 's strategy of increasing ties with countries throughout Central Europe .
He said Moscow valued cooperation in the gas and oil sectors , adding that Russian companies were interested in helping Slovakia further develop its nuclear power industry .
Mr. Putin 's visit is the first by a Russian president to the country since Slovakia and the Czech Republic were formed in 1993 with the peaceful split of Czechoslovakia .
Cameroon has become the fourth African country to report a case of the deadly bird flu virus .
A government statement released Sunday said the H5N1 strain was detected at a duck farm in the northern town of Maroua .
Cameroon had already implemented a ban on importing birds after the H5N1 virus was reported in neighboring Nigeria .
Health officials are concerned that Africa is not prepared to combat the avian flu because of a lack of money and other resources .
Avian flu has also been found in Asia , Europe and the Middle East .
The World Health Organization reports the virus has killed 97 people since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
A prosecutor at the war crimes trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague has accused the defendant of trying to prolong the proceedings for self-promotion .
Prosecutor Geoffrey Nice made the comment Thursday , as Mr. Milosevic sought additional time beyond the 150 days the court has allotted for his defense .
The former Yugoslav president wants to call hundreds of witnesses , including British Prime Minister Tony Blair and former U.S. President Bill Clinton .
Mr. Milosevic 's trial began in 2002 and has been repeatedly delayed because of concerns over his health .
Mr. Milosevic is charged with war crimes and genocide from conflicts in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s .
He has refused to recognize the tribunal and is conducting his own defense .
The U.S. government is expressing doubts about a threat posted on the Internet which warns officials in seven U.S. cities about a dirty bomb attack on professional football stadiums in the coming days .
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday the threat was being viewed " with strong skepticism , " but that an alert was being issued " out of an abundance of caution . "
Authorities say the threat was posted on an Internet web site and mentions National Football League , or NFL , stadiums in New York , Miami , Atlanta , Seattle , Houston , Oakland and Cleveland .
Officials , however , say people are strongly encouraged to continue to go about their plans , including attending events that involve large public gatherings such as football games .
Gunmen from the Palestinian Fatah movement have announced formation of a two thousand member militia , in an apparent move to counter a new security force unveiled by the rival group Hamas .
Last week , Hamas , which swept to power in parliamentary elections in January , said it was forming a four thousand-strong paramilitary force to maintain order in the Palestinian territories .
The specter of competing Palestinian security forces has raised concern for potential violence between the factions .
Fatah sources Wednesday told a VOA reporter their new force is not designed to compete with Hamas .
Those comments contradicted those of a Fatah spokesman who told Reuters news agency the force is being organized in a challenge to the Hamas militia .
Several dozen people were wounded last month in factional clashes after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas rejected Hamas ' appointment of a leading Gaza militant to head the Hamas-dominated security unit .
Niger became independent from France in 1960 and experienced single-party and military rule until 1991 , when Gen. Ali SAIBOU was forced by public pressure to allow multiparty elections , which resulted in a democratic government in 1993 .
Political infighting brought the government to a standstill and in 1996 led to a coup by Col. Ibrahim BARE .
In 1999 , BARE was killed in a counter coup by military officers who restored democratic rule and held elections that brought Mamadou TANDJA to power in December of that year .
TANDJA was reelected in 2004 and in 2009 spearheaded a constitutional amendment that would allow him to extend his term as president .
In February 2010 , a military coup deposed TANDJA , immediately suspended the constitution and dissolved the Cabinet , and promised that elections would be held following a transitional period of unspecified duration .
Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world with minimal government services and insufficient funds to develop its resource base .
The largely agrarian and subsistence-based economy is frequently disrupted by extended droughts common to the Sahel region of Africa .
A predominately Tuareg ethnic group emerged in February 2007 , the Nigerien Movement for Justice , and attacked several military targets in Niger 's northern region throughout 2007 and 2008 .
Successful government offensives in 2009 limited the rebels ' operational capabilities .
Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that held sway in both France and England .
These islands were the only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II . Jersey is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK or of the European Union .
However , the UK Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation .
Dutch traders landed at the southern tip of modern day South Africa in 1652 and established a stopover point on the spice route between the Netherlands and the Far East , founding the city of Cape Town .
After the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in 1806 , many of the Dutch settlers ( the Boers ) trekked north to found their own republics .
The discovery of diamonds ( 1867 ) and gold ( 1886 ) spurred wealth and immigration and intensified the subjugation of the native inhabitants .
The Boers resisted British encroachments but were defeated in the Boer War ( 1899 - 1902 ) ; however , the British and the Afrikaners , as the Boers became known , ruled together beginning in 1910 under the Union of South Africa , which became a republic in 1961 after a whites-only referendum .
In 1948 , the National Party was voted into power and instituted a policy of apartheid - the separate development of the races - which favored the white minority at the expense of the black majority .
The African National Congress ( ANC ) led the opposition to apartheid and many top ANC leaders , such as Nelson MANDELA , spent decades in South Africa 's prisons .
Internal protests and insurgency , as well as boycotts by some Western nations and institutions , led to the regime 's eventual willingness to negotiate a peaceful transition to majority rule .
The first multi-racial elections in 1994 brought an end to apartheid and ushered in majority rule under an ANC-led government .
South Africa since then has struggled to address apartheid-era imbalances in decent housing , education , and health care .
ANC infighting , which has grown in recent years , came to a head in September 2008 when President Thabo MBEKI resigned , and Kgalema MOTLANTHE , the party 's General-Secretary , succeeded him as interim president .
Jacob ZUMA became president after the ANC won general elections in April 2009 .
In January 2011 , South Africa assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
The World Health Organization says that despite a global effort to eradicate polio by the end of 2005 , the number of cases rose by almost 30 percent last year .
Organization officials say more than 1,170 cases were reported last year compared to 784 in 2003 .
Ninety percent of the incidents occurred in Nigeria , India and Pakistan .
Nigeria , Africa 's most populous country , accounts for 65 percent of the 2004 total .
Eradication efforts have been hampered by a months-long vaccine boycott in that country 's northern region .
Opponents there had said the polio vaccine was contaminated with infertility agents .
That boycott led to the spread of the virus to neighboring countries , including Ghana , Benin , Chad and Togo .
Conflicts in Ivory Coast and Sudan also have hindered eradication efforts .
Polio is a disease that attacks the nervous system , causing paralysis , muscle atrophy and sometimes death .
A coalition of Iraq 's majority Shi'ite Muslims has won nearly half the votes in last month 's landmark elections for a transitional national assembly .
A slate of Kurdish parties finished second with about 25 percent of the nearly 8.5 million votes cast January 30 .
A slate led by interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi finished third with 14 percent .
Speaking Sunday in Baghdad , an elections commission spokesman hailed the poll results as " a new birth for Iraq . "
The 275-seat assembly will pick a new government to succeed the interim administration now in power .
The assembly is to be dissolved and a new parliament elected by the end of this year .
The tally shows only two percent of eligible voters in Sunni-dominated al-Anbar province went to the polls , while 17 percent voted in Ninevah province .
Parties have three days to file protests against to the vote tally , before results become official .
Kenya 's President Mwai Kibaki has denied ever making a pledge to stay in office for just one term .
A former ally of the president , Ralia Odinga , has said that Mr. Kibaki made the pledge in 2002 , during negotiations to form the alliance that won that year 's Kenyan elections .
But Thursday , Mr. Kibaki said he had no intention of giving up the chance to run for a second term .
He said he has never indicated to anyone that he had any other intention .
President Kibaki has yet to formally announce that he will run for re-election in polls expected later this year .
The Kenyan economy has thrived under Mr. Kibaki but the administration has lost support at home and abroad because of a series of corruption scandals .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he has evidence of a U.S. plan to invade his country .
In a Nightline , ABC News television interview Friday in New York , Mr. Chavez said he has documentation of a U.S. military plan called " Balboa " detailing a U.S. invasion , which he said involves planes and aircraft carriers .
He was quoted as saying that if the United States attempts to invade his country , " it would be embarking on a 100-year war . "
Mr. Chavez has repeatedly accused Washington of trying to topple his government , an accusation the United States denies .
Mr. Chavez has been attending the United Nations General Assembly summit in New York .
On Thursday , he lashed out at the United States , characterizing the country as a " terrorist state . "
Russian news reports say the military has deployed another batch of intercontinental ballistic missiles .
The announcement Sunday says three new Topol-M truck-mounted missile units have been positioned about 250 kilometers northeast of Moscow , in the Ivanovo region near Teikovo .
A first batch of the mobile missiles were deployed in the area last year .
Analysts say the missile has an effective range of 10,000 kilometers and can carry a more than one-ton payload .
Russian military chiefs have been quoted as saying the mobile Topol missiles are aimed at countering U.S. missile shield plans in central Europe .
Russia opposes U.S. plans for 10 missile interceptors in Poland and guidance radar in the Czech Republic .
Washington says the missile shield will protect the United States and its European allies from potential missile attacks from Iran .
But Moscow insists the U.S. deployment will destabilize central and eastern Europe and lead to a new arms race .
Crude oil prices are climbing with news of a potential hurricane along the southern gulf coast of the United States and Iran 's ongoing nuclear dispute with western nations .
Oil prices rose more than $ 1 Friday to $ 73 a barrel .
Financial analysts say they are closely watching a tropical depression that weather forecasters are tracking as it makes its way to the U.S. gulf coast .
Last year 's storms , particularly Hurricane Katrina , damaged off shore oil refineries , disrupting U.S. oil supplies and driving oil prices to record highs .
An August 31 U.N. Security Council deadline for Iran to halt its nuclear activities is also weighing heavily on oil prices .
Traders are concerned that Iran may block oil exports if the security council imposes sanctions against it .
Iran is the world 's fourth largest oil producer .
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao has ordered officials in southern China to brace for Typhoon Damrey .
He says authorities must make preparations for the typhoon , which is expected to make landfall late Sunday or early Monday and pound the region with heavy rains and strong winds .
Earlier this month , Typhoon Khanun killed at least 14 people in coastal provinces of eastern China .
And Typhoon Talim killed at least 42 people when it hit Zhejiang province .
Authorities in Laos say they have detected the country 's first outbreak of the H5N1 bird flu virus in almost seven months .
Government spokesman Yong Chanthalangsy said Tuesday at least 17 birds have died of the virus in Non-Sawang , a village just outside the capital , Vientiane .
He said at least 1,000 birds have been killed in an effort to stop the virus from spreading .
The H5N1 virus usually affects poultry , but it has spread to humans in some cases .
167 people have died from the virus worldwide since 2003 .
Pakistan says it will postpone the purchase of F-16 fighter jets from the United States in order to provide more relief to victims of the devastating October eighth earthquake .
President Pervez Musharraf made the announcement during a tour of quake-hit areas Friday .
He said the government wants to provide maximum relief and reconstruction efforts .
General Musharraf had earlier said his country did not plan to cut into its defense budget to increase funds for relief efforts .
On Thursday , Jordan 's Queen Rania , speaking on behalf of the United Nations children 's fund , called for help to immunize Pakistani children against disease .
Quake survivors marked a normally joyous Muslim festival of Eid-al-Fitr today with somber prayers amid ruins and debris , and visits to the graves of their relatives who died in the catastrophe .
Pakistan this week raised its death toll from the quake to more than 73,000 .
In 1603 , after decades of civil warfare , the Tokugawa shogunate ( a military-led , dynastic government ) ushered in a long period of relative political stability and isolation from foreign influence .
For more than two centuries this policy enabled Japan to enjoy a flowering of its indigenous culture .
Japan opened its ports after signing the Treaty of Kanagawa with the US in 1854 and began to intensively modernize and industrialize .
During the late 19th and early 20th centuries , Japan became a regional power that was able to defeat the forces of both China and Russia .
It occupied Korea , Formosa ( Taiwan ) , and southern Sakhalin Island .
In 1931 - 32 Japan occupied Manchuria , and in 1937 it launched a full-scale invasion of China .
Japan attacked US forces in 1941 - triggering America 's entry into World War II - and soon occupied much of East and Southeast Asia .
After its defeat in World War II , Japan recovered to become an economic power and an ally of the US .
While the emperor retains his throne as a symbol of national unity , elected politicians hold actual decision-making power .
Following three decades of unprecedented growth , Japan 's economy experienced a major slowdown starting in the 1990s , but the country remains a major economic power .
In March 2011 , Japan 's strongest-ever earthquake , and an accompanying tsunami , devastated the northeast part of Honshu island , killing thousands and damaging several nuclear power plants .
The catastrophe hobbled the country 's economy and its energy infrastructure , and severely strained its capacity to deal with the humanitarian disaster .
A South African court has ordered four white South African men to pay fines for making a video degrading black university workers three years ago .
The Bloemfontein court Friday instructed each of the former University of Free State students to pay $ 2,720 in lieu of a one year jail sentence , provided they stay out of trouble .
The men pleaded guilty Wednesday to deliberately harming the integrity of the workers .
The 2007 video includes scenes in which the black employees are fed soup apparently drenched in urine .
The men , who no longer attend the university , have not identified what liquid was put in the soup and only described the liquid as harmless .
They say the video was made as a protest to racial integration .
The case conjured up bitter feelings of when South Africa 's apartheid dominance prevailed .
Syria 's official news agency says President Bashar al-Assad has pardoned and released 112 political prisoners .
SANA reports that the mass release is part of what it calls the president 's open and tolerant approach in dealing with the issue of political detainees .
Last month , Damascus freed 20 political prisoners , but Tuesday 's was said to be the largest release in three years .
President Assad succeeded his late father , Hafez al-Assad , in July 2000 , committing to political reform .
However , rights groups have been critical of his administration , accusing him of cracking down on pro-democracy groups .
The husband of outed CIA operative Valerie Plame , Ambassador Joseph Wilson , says the indictment of vice presidential aide , Lewis Libby , is a sad day for America .
In a statement read Friday by Mr. Wilson 's attorney , the diplomat said the leaked revelation of his wife 's identity in 2003 was harmful to the nation .
Mr. Wilson said he feels his family was attacked because he , in his words , spoke the truth about the events that led the United States to war .
Mr. Wilson underscored that the day is not a day to celebrate , because when indictments are delivered to the front door of the White House , the Office of the President is defiled .
The former ambassador said he is confident justice will be served .
He commended Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald for his professionalism , diligence and courage .
Iraqi security forces say they have captured the alleged leader of a Sunni Arab militant group suspected of several bombings and assassinations .
A military spokesman Sunday said officials have linked Thayer Kadhim Abid al-Suraiwi to some Iraqi politicians and neighboring countries , but he did not elaborate .
Authorities arrested Suraiwi last month in Baghdad .
They accuse him of being the commander of Ansar al-Sunna .
They say the group was responsible for a June car bombing that killed dozens of people in Baghdad 's Shi'ite neighborhood of Hurriyah .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say unknown gunmen killed three policemen today in Mosul .
Indian police Thursday are questioning a married couple in connection with Sunday 's train bombing that killed 68 people .
Security officials say they detained the husband and wife late in Bikaner in northern Rajasthan , an area bordering Pakistan .
Media reports say the man resembles the sketch of a suspect released earlier this week .
There are conflicting reports about the number of people who have been detained in the ongoing probe , with figures ranging from three to 12 .
Also Thursday , Indian authorities transferred the bodies of 12 Pakistanis killed in the attack to their relatives in Pakistan .
Pakistani soldiers carried the coffins across the border and passed them to grieving relatives .
The bombing took place on a train from New Delhi to the Pakistani city of Lahore .
Two small bombs aboard triggered a fire that engulfed the train about an hour after it left the Indian capital .
U.S. President Barack Obama holds a working lunch Tuesday with sub-Saharan African leaders on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly .
U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice said the meeting will focus on how the U.S. can work in partnership with African governments to strengthen Africa 's economic and social development .
She said the three main topics will be job creation , creating a better climate for trade and investment , and improving agriculture to feed more people .
President Obama has previously urged African leaders to fight corruption and to promote the rule of law in order to spark economic growth .
Mr. Obama has made one visit to sub-Saharan Africa since becoming president , to Ghana in July .
Kenya 's Finance Minister Amos Kimunya says violence following the country 's recent disputed election may have cost the Kenyan economy up to $ 1 billion .
Kimunya says tourism , agriculture , and other sectors were affected by the unrest , but he says the economy is resilient and will recover soon .
He also projected a strong seven percent growth rate for the country this year .
Kenya is East Africa 's largest economy .
The Bloomberg financial news service reports Kenya received more than one million tourists in the first nine months of 2007 and is the largest exporter of black tea in the world .
Police in Zimbabwe have arrested a nephew of President Robert Mugabe on suspicion of smuggling 30 tons of scarce flour to neighboring Mozambique .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports Leo Mugabe , a ruling ZANU-PF party member of parliament , is expected to appear in court Thursday .
The paper says he will face charges of illegally dealing in controlled products .
The report says the smuggled flour was worth about $ 19 million .
The Herald says smuggled sugar and flour are sold cheaply in Mozambique , undercutting production from that country 's own industries .
Last year , President Mugabe began an anti-corruption drive that has led to the arrest of several prominent Zimbabwean politicians .
Over the last five years , Zimbabwe has struggled with hyper-inflation and chronic shortages of food , fuel and cash .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has ordered three days of official state mourning for Pope John Paul , an unusual move for the Communist nation .
The Cuban leader also suspended planned Communist youth festivities as well as the finals of the national baseball league .
Church bells tolled for over 30 minutes late Saturday , after the pope 's death was announced at the Vatican .
John Paul was the only pope ever to visit Cuba , in 1998 , and he has been praised by Havana for what members of the Castro government saw as the church leader 's opposition to " neo-liberal capitalism . "
Catholic and Jewish mourners have gathered for the funeral of the former Roman Catholic archbishop of Paris , Cardinal Jean-Marie Lustiger .
Friday 's service was held in Paris at the Notre Dame Cathedral and began with a Jewish prayer .
His coffin was then carried inside the cathedral to be placed in a crypt .
Lustiger , who was born to Jewish parents before converting to Catholicism , had requested that his funeral include both faiths .
The cardinal was known for his work promoting greater understanding between Catholics and Jews .
He died on Sunday at the age of 80 .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy interrupted his vacation in the United States to attend the funeral .
He heads back to the U.S. Friday for a meeting with U.S. President George Bush .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai says terrorists who are killing foreign soldiers in his country want the international community to fail in its efforts to rebuild war-torn Afghanistan .
Mr. Karzai told the U.N. General Assembly Wednesday that terrorists see a prosperous Afghanistan as their ultimate defeat .
In a clear reference to neighboring Pakistan , Mr. Karzai told world leaders that " terrorism does not emanate from within Afghanistan . "
He said there is a need to destroy terrorist sanctuaries beyond Afghanistan , and to dismantle all terror networks in the region .
Mr. Karzai 's remarks come just two weeks after Pakistan 's truce with pro-Taleban militants in the North Waziristan region .
Pakistani troops agreed to end their crackdown in the region , and the militants said they will stop harboring foreign terrorists and will stop crossing into Afghanistan to launch ambushes .
The European Union has warned Saudi Arabia it will take action at the World Trade Organization , if the kingdom supports a widening Muslim boycott of Danish products .
EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson issued the warning as protests over cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad spread across the Muslim world .
The cartoons were published in a Danish newspaper in September and include an image of the prophet wearing a turban shaped like a bomb .
In the Gaza Strip Monday , gunmen briefly occupied an EU office .
And a Danish dairy company , Arla Foods , says its products have been boycotted throughout the Middle East .
Last week , Saudi Arabia recalled its ambassador to Denmark .
Libya has already closed its embassy in Denmark .
International public health officials are calling for a stronger global response to drug-resistant tuberculosis .
The call was made after American lawyer Andrew Speaker , who is infected with a form of tuberculosis that is resistant to most antibiotics , traveled aboard commercial airliners from the United States to Europe and back .
VOA 's Jessica Berman reports .
Officials at the World Health Organization estimate there are at least 400,000 new cases of tuberculosis each year that do not respond to two or more standard antibiotics .
Of these , WHO experts say 25,000 to 30,000 individuals are infected with extremely drug-resistant TB , or XDR TB , which is resistant not only to two or more standard antibiotics , but three or more of a newer class of antibiotics .
Andrew Speaker , who lives in Atlanta , Georgia and flew to Europe and back with his fiance , is infected with XDR TB .
Speaker has been in isolation since his return .
European public health officials were not notified about the case until Speaker was back in the United States .
Mario Raviglione is Director of the Stop TB Department at the WHO .
Although governments are considering ways to improve screening of people with infectious diseases at the border , Raviglione says that would be difficult to implement .
What is needed , accorded to Raviglione , are better measures to contain XTR TB , including rapid testing and new drugs .
" Here we are facing one of the highest burden diseases of the world , where the amount of money that is being spent , particularly internationally to help countries that are in need like African countries , is badly , badly insufficient , " he said .
Meanwhile , U.S. lawmakers have introduced legislation to prevent the spread of tuberculosis in the United States , and at least one hearing is scheduled to investigate the Andrew Speaker incident .
Israeli aircraft have fired missiles into the Gaza Strip , killing six people , including a senior commander of the Popular Resistance Committee .
The Israeli army said a vehicle carrying several militants was hit Friday as it was leaving a training camp in the southern Gaza town of Rafah .
Palestinian officials say Iyad Abu al-Aynin and his young daughter were among those killed in the attack .
The Popular Resistance Committee is an umbrella organization with ties to the militant Islamic group Hamas , which took control of the Palestinian government last week .
Palestinian officials , meanwhile , have been giving conflicting accounts about the Hamas-led government 's willingness to embrace a two-state solution with Israel .
On Friday , Hamas leaders did , however , confirm a report in the Israeli newspaper Haaretzthat the group was trying to broker a deal to extend a truce it has been observing with Israel for the past year .
China has confirmed an outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu among ducks in southern Guangdong province .
Hong Kong 's health secretary York Chow said Monday Chinese agriculture ministry officials confirmed that tests indicate the presence of H5N1 in Panyu district .
More than 9,000 ducks died on five farms in Panyu this month .
More than 32,000 ducks were then culled to help contain the outbreak .
The area is near Hong Kong , where health officials Monday suspended imports of chilled and frozen duck and geese from Guangdong for one week .
The H5N1 strain of avian influenza is deadly to humans .
The World Health Organization reports there have been at least 25 human cases of avian flu confirmed in China in recent years , 16 of them fatal .
A group of rebel militias in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) says it has suspended participation in a 2008 cease-fire agreement .
The rebel groups have released a statement citing a number of reasons for their decision , including the government 's arrest of some of their members .
In January 2008 , rebels in the eastern DRC signed a peace accord with the government aimed at ending years of fighting in the region .
The country 's five-year civil war formally ended in 2003 .
However , militias and rebel groups have remained active in some eastern areas , especially North Kivu province .
Bloomberg news reports that Congo 's communications minister has dismissed the militias ' statement .
The news agency quotes Lambert Mende as saying the militias think they " are in charge of the peace process , but they are not . "
A General Electric subsidiary in Brazil that provides maintenance to Brazil 's financially-troubled Vasp airline , is asking a local court to declare the carrier bankrupt .
Celma , a subsidiary of the U.S. company , said Wednesday that Brazil 's fourth-largest airline owes it some $ 3.2 million .
The announcement follows Vasp 's firing Tuesday of 380 of its more than 5,000 workers .
The airline also took six planes out of service recently .
Vasp is one of several Brazilian airlines that have suffered financial troubles in recent years due to a drop in passenger demand .
A senior Cuban official has lashed out at the United Nations , saying it has done very little to achieve the goals outlined in the Millennium Declaration .
Cuban National Assembly speaker Ricardo Alarcon made the comment Friday in a speech before the UN World Summit in New York .
Mr. Alarcon said the governments attending the summit have failed to do enough to meet the eight objectives in the declaration , which included reducing poverty and hunger , making education accessible to everyone and combating HIV / AIDS .
He said there has been a setback in many of the objectives .
Mr. Alarcon also described proposed U.N. reforms as an " unforgivable sham " he said were designed by wealthy countries to turn the United Nations into an instrument of global dictatorship .
General Amin al-Hindi , a former Palestinian intelligence chief who may have played a role in the deadly 1972 Munich attack on the Israeli Olympics team , has died .
He was 70 .
Palestinian officials say al-Hindi died of cancer at a hospital in Jordan , Tuesday , after slipping into a coma .
They say his body was transported to the West Bank , Wednesday , for burial .
Al-Hindi was a senior security officer in the Fatah party .
He also served as head of intelligence services under former Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
Commandos with " Black September " -- a group linked to Arafat 's Fatah faction -- infiltrated the Olympic village in Munich at the 1972 summer games .
The commandoes stormed a dormitory housing Israelis , an attack that led to the deaths of 11 athletes .
Nuclear envoys from North and South Korea have met in Beijing as part of attempts to resume six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
Tuesday 's meeting between the South 's Chun Yung-woo and the North 's Kim Kye Kwan is the latest in a series of diplomatic consultations among the six nations involved in the nuclear talks .
Over the past week , U.S. nuclear envoy Christopher Hill met his counterparts from South Korea , Japan and China to brief them on his talks with North Korea 's Kim in Berlin earlier this month .
Diplomats say Beijing , which hosts the talks , could announce a date for the next round in a few days .
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso said Tuesday another round of negotiations would be meaningless unless it specifically addresses the issue of North Korean denuclearization .
Officials in Saudi Arabia say authorities have arrested three men with alleged al-Qaida links , including one who officials say was preparing for attacks .
The Interior Ministry says the three used the Internet to spread the ideology of al-Qaida .
It says one of the suspects , identified as Saudi national Abu Osaid al-Falluji , was allegedly involved in recruiting , seeking funding and preparing for terrorist operations .
The ministry says the second suspect , a Saudi national identified as Abu Abdullah al-Najdi , attempted to publish an edition of the al-Qaida online newsletter Sawt al-Jihad .
The third suspect also allegedly planned to use the Internet to disseminate a jihadist publication .
The Saudi government launched an aggressive anti-terrorism campaign after al-Qaida militants launched dramatic terrorist attacks against Western targets in 2003 .
Iran says a rise in oil production by OPEC as requested by the United States will not affect record prices in a market already saturated with oil .
Iranian Oil Minister Gholam Hossein Nozari told reporters Saturday in Tehran that increasing production will only increase oil inventories .
On Friday , Saudi Arabia rejected a request by U.S. President George Bush for Riyadh to raise oil production in hopes of controlling soaring gas prices .
Iran is OPEC 's second largest oil producer after Saudi Arabia .
Oil prices reached a record high of nearly $ 128 per barrel Friday .
Nigerian health officials are awaiting the results of tests to see if two sick children may be infected with the lethal strain of the bird flu virus .
Samples taken Sunday from the children and their family will determine if they are the first human victims of the disease in Africa .
The children are from the northern state of Kaduna , where officials have confirmed discovery of a " highly pathogenic " version of the H5N1 strain on a chicken farm .
It was Africa 's first reported case of the lethal strain of bird flu .
That strain has since been confirmed in the Nigerian states of Plateau and Kano , where as many as 20 farms may be affected .
International experts continue to arrive in Nigeria to help with containment efforts , that have included the killing of thousands of chickens across the region .
Fighting in southern Somalia continued for a second straight day between militias run by two lawmakers in a dispute over where to locate the country 's transitional government .
Reports from Baidoa , located several nearly 300 kilometers west of Mogadishu , say fighters commanded by Mohamed Ibrahim Habsadeh took control of the city early Sunday after heavy fighting against forces aligned with Colonel Hassan Mohamed Nur Shargudud .
The French news agency , AFP , reports that at least 15 people have been killed in two days of clashes .
On Saturday , witnesses said at least five people were killed .
In addition to the location of the transitional government , Mr. Habsadeh and Colonel Shargudud are engaged in a dispute over whether to allow neighboring countries to take part in a regional peacekeeping force .
The death toll in Kenya from a lethal batch of illegal alcohol has risen to at least 41 .
Authorities in the Machakos district south of Nairobi say another 80 people are being treated , with nine of them in critical condition in a Nairobi hospital .
Several people have gone blind .
The victims drank the homemade brew at a bar in Makutano , a village some 50 kilometers south of Nairobi .
Police are looking for a woman they believe sold the illegal brew .
Authorities say the drink probably contained methanol to make it more potent .
Cheap , illegal alcoholic drinks , known as chang'aa , are common in Kenya .
In 2000 , more than 100 people died after consuming an illegal homemade drink in Nairobi .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has dismissed the president of the southern republic of Chechnya , Alu Alkhanov , and named the region 's prime minister as acting president .
Mr. Putin announced the move Thursday during a meeting with Alkhanov .
The Russian leader appointed Chechnya 's Prime Minister Ramzan Kadyrov to replace Alkhanov .
Kadyrov is the son of the late Chechen president Akhmad Kadyrov , who was assassinated in 2004 .
President Putin appointed Alkhanov as deputy justice minister of the Russian federation .
Kadyrov has denied accusations that militias he controls are behind the abductions and abuse of Chechen separatists and civilians believed to have links with them .
Major fighting in Chechnya ended in 2001 , but violence remains common in the mostly Muslim region .
Indonesian health officials have confirmed the country 's fourth death from bird flu , bringing to 63 the number of people across Asia who have died from the virus since 2003 .
Authorities Friday said recent tests indicate an Indonesian woman who died last week in a Jakarta hospital was infected with the H5N1 strain of avian flu .
Indonesia 's health ministry says it is investigating whether a neighbor of the victim is also infected .
The bird flu strain has killed at least 43 people in Vietnam since 2003 , at least 12 in Thailand and four in Cambodia .
Health experts fear the virus could infect millions of people worldwide if it changes into a form that can be spread easily by human-to-human contact .
The media watchdog , Reporters Without Borders , says there has been an upsurge in violence against the media in Latin America .
In its annual press freedom report released Tuesday , the group said a total of 12 journalists and two media assistants were killed in the region last year .
The countries in which the 14 were killed include Brazil , Colombia , Haiti , Peru , Nicaragua and Ecuador .
Reporters Without Borders says violence against the media has decreased in several countries , including Bolivia , Guatemala and Haiti .
The group describes press freedom in Cuba as disastrous and dubs it the region 's only prison for journalists , with 22 currently imprisoned .
Reporters Without Borders released Tuesday 's report to coincide with World Press Freedom Day .
Tens of thousands of people have protested outside the Indian factory set to produce the world 's cheapest car , to demand the auto company return the land to local farmers .
Authorities in West Bengal state deployed nearly 3,000 police to protect the Tata Motors factory site Sunday as more than 40,000 protesters lined the highway leading to the factory .
Farmers say Tata Motors did not properly compensate them for the land used for the factory site .
They have vowed to continue protesting until the 160 hectares of disputed land are returned .
Tata Motors said Friday the protests may force it to relocate the factory .
The factory is set to roll out the first $ 2,500 " Nano " cars by October .
Tata Motors plans to manufacture a quarter-million of the cars each year .
Norway has pulled out of the Nordic Combined team event at the Turin Olympics in Italy because nearly the entire team has become ill .
Norwegian spokesman Tom Dahl Froeshaug said Tuesday that only one member of the four-man team is healthy enough to compete .
He says an infection has swept through the team that won the world championship last year .
The Nordic Combined event includes ski jumping off the large hill , and the 4x5-kilometer cross-country ski race .
The Norwegians are hoping to be ready for the individual sprint competition next Tuesday .
The Nepalese military says it has confiscated explosives , bombs , communication devices and other weapons belonging to Maoist rebels that could have been used in several attacks .
A Royal Nepalese Army spokesman , Brigadier-General Deepak Gurung , told journalists in Kathmandu Tuesday the weapons were recovered from various Maoist hideouts in and around the nation 's capital .
The army confiscated the weapons as Maoist rebels escalated their attacks ahead of a January 13 deadline set by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for the Maoists to resume peace talks .
Maoist rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
So far , the conflict has claimed more than 10,000 lives .
Venezuela is buying naval ships and transport aircraft worth more than $ 1.5 billion from Spain .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez signed the deal with Spanish Defense Minister Jose Bono in Caracas Monday .
Under the deal , Venezuela will receive ocean patrol boats , coastal patrol vessels , and maritime surveillance planes .
Reuters news agency quotes a Venezuelan naval commander , Armando Laguna , as saying the equipment will delivered by 2010 .
Last week , the U.S. government threatened to block the transfer of U.S. parts and technology in the planes and boats included in the deal .
Venezuela says it could get technology from other countries if need be .
Venezuela has also signed deals this year for a Brazilian aircraft and 100,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles from Russia to combat the drug trade along the border with Colombia .
The U.N. refugee agency says the death toll has risen to 91 from two boats that capsized off the coast of Yemen while crossing from the Horn of Africa .
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees says another 114 people are still missing from the two vessels .
They were illegally carrying a total of 256 Somalis and Ethiopians across the Gulf of Aden a few days ago .
It says a total of 51 people survived the voyages , noting that rescue operations continue along the Yemeni coast .
The U.N. agency says a new wave of human smuggling vessels has been trying to cross the Gulf of Aden after a two-week lull stemming from bad weather .
Thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to reach Yemen each year to escape poverty in their home countries .
The rebel Lord 's Resistance Army has killed at least eight people in a new series of attacks in southern Sudan .
Local officials say LRA fighters attacked villages near Yambio , the capital of Western Equatoria state , on Friday and Saturday .
They say all of those killed were civilians .
The LRA is originally from Uganda but has evolved into a roaming band of fighters causing terror across central Africa .
Last month , Human Rights Watch said the group had killed more than 250 people in the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo over the previous year and a half .
It said nearly 700 others were kidnapped and forced to be either soldiers or sex slaves .
Ugandan forces have chased the rebels in neighboring countries but have failed to stop the attacks or catch LRA leader Joseph Kony .
Kony is wanted by the International Criminal Court for alleged crimes against humanity .
Turkish officials say an avalanche has killed at least six people and trapped around six others under snow .
Officials say the avalanche hit a group of some 15 hikers Sunday on Mount Zigana , in Turkey 's northeastern Gumushane province .
A Turkish news agency ( NTV ) says the military has sent rescuers to the scene where several people have been pulled from the snow .
Turkey is wrinkled by rugged mountain ranges that surround and intersect the high , semiarid Anatolian plateau .
Most of Turkey lies within an earthquake zone , and recurrent tremors have been known to cause avalanches in the area .
Most Asian stock markets are closed Thursday , for the Christmas holidays .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index rose 82 points , nearly one percent , to finish at 8,599 .
Share prices closed lower in Shanghai and Taipei , but ended higher in Bangkok .
Markets are closed in Hong Kong , Jakarta , Manila , Mumbai , Seoul , Sydney and Wellington .
In currency trading , the dollar was selling at 90.41 yen , down 0.5 yen from Wednesday .
A close aide says Iran 's moderate former President Mohammad Khatami may soon withdraw from the June presidential election .
Mr. Khatami 's aide told several Western news agencies Monday that he expects an announcement soon .
The news comes after the ex-president spoke to his supporters at a meeting late Sunday .
News agencies quote Mr. Khatami as saying that another moderate candidate , Mir Hossein Mousavi , may face less resistance from some hardliners and so might be a better contender .
He indicated that he may consider withdrawing to avoid dividing the pro-reformist vote .
Mr. Khatami served as president of Iran from 1997 to 2005 .
Mr. Mousavi served as Iran 's prime minister throughout most of the 1980s , but his position was scrapped when Iran 's constitution was revised in 1989 .
Former Vice President Al Gore is joining a venture capital company in the hope of boosting investments in clean energy .
Gore won the Nobel Prize a few weeks ago for his role in sounding the alarm about the dangers of global warming from the carbon put into the atmosphere by burning oil and coal .
The company - Kleiner , Perkins , Caufield and Byers - was an early investor in small computer-related start-up companies that later blossomed into major companies .
Gore adds his political skills and clout to the company 's financial resources and expertise .
He plans to donate his salary to an environmental group .
Iran 's leaders have sent their condolences to the grieving families of the victims of a mosque fire that killed 59 worshippers in Tehran Monday .
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Mohammad Khatami issued separate statements Tuesday promising the best possible medical care for the more than 200 injured , and an investigation into the fire 's cause .
No official cause has been determined , but initial reports point to a kerosene heater that ignited either a curtain or a woman 's veil , setting the Arg mosque on fire .
The fire broke out during evening prayers in the women 's section of the mosque .
Witnesses said the flames spread quickly , and dozens of worshippers were killed or injured from a stampede triggered by panic .
The latest opinion polls show Canada 's opposition Conservative Party with at least a 10-point lead as the country prepares for Monday 's parliamentary election .
If Prime Minister Paul Martin loses on Monday , the Liberal Party will be out of power for the first time in 12 years .
Mr. Martin , a former finance minister , is hoping the electorate will credit him with Canada 's booming economy .
However , his administration has been mired in a corruption scandal that originated under his predecessor , Jean Chretien .
Mr. Martin 's opponent is Stephen Harper , who convinced several conservative political alliances to merge and form the Conservative Party in 2003 .
The prime minister has tried to depict his challenger as an extremist on social issues .
Mr. Harper -- an economist -- has been running on a platform of tax cuts and shifting more power away from the national government to the provinces .
Chinese officials have confirmed a new outbreak of bird flu among poultry in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa .
The official Xinhua news agency quoted China 's ministry of agriculture as saying officials found the H5N1 strain of bird flu , which can be fatal to humans , in poultry sold at a market in Lhasa on April 12 .
The ministry said it had taken emergency measures , culling more than 1,600 birds , and that the epidemic is under control .
Officials also said no one who came into contact with the infected poultry has shown any signs of the disease .
The World Health Organization says bird flu has killed more than 250 people since it resurfaced in Asia in 2003 .
At least five people have died from bird flu in China this year .
A Togolese general says the military has agreed to return the country to " constitutional order " to resolve the crisis over the installation of President Faure Gnassingbe .
General Seyi Memene said the military agreed to the move after talks Tuesday with West African diplomats .
He did not say weather elections will be held within 60 days as specified under Togo 's former constitution .
Lawmakers amended the constitution earlier this month after the death of longtime President Gnassingbe Eyadema , allowing his son to serve out his term until 2008 .
The regional grouping , known as the Economic Community of West African States ( ECOWAS ) , has threatened sanctions against the Togolese government if it does not hold fresh elections .
Leaders of the Palestinian militant group Hamas say five children and three women were among 13 injured after a blast at a Hamas base in the Gaza Strip .
The powerful explosion Wednesday ripped through the Hamas al-Qassam Brigades military training facility in the southern Gaza Strip .
In a statement , Hamas did not give a cause for the blast .
The Israeli military says it was not involved .
The blast shook through the densely crowded Tel As-Sultan neighborhood in Rafah .
Hamas said the injured were hit by flying glass shrapnel .
The Gaza-based Palestinian Center for Human Rights has repeatedly called on the territory 's Hamas rulers not to store explosive materials in civilian areas .
A weapons explosion in August wounded 58 people and destroyed seven houses .
Authorities are continuing emergency rescue efforts after Hurricane Katrina slammed the Gulf Coast of the United States .
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour says the death toll could be as high as 80 in one Mississippi county alone .
The powerful storm cut a path of destruction through ( the southern U.S. states of ) Louisiana , Alabama and Mississippi , uprooting trees and destroying homes and buildings .
Rescuers used helicopters to pluck stranded residents from rooftops of houses submerged in flooding .
The death toll is expected to rise .
Live power lines are down and gas lines ruptured , and authorities are warning residents not to return to their homes yet .
The storm came ashore early Monday and has cut power to more than one-million residents .
Officials say it could be weeks before residents are allowed back into the area .
Forecasters say the storm is now centered in northern Mississippi , and moving northeast .
President Bush has an aggressive agenda for his trip to Europe during the coming week , including planned talks on a number of Middle East issues .
In his weekly radio address , Saturday , Mr. Bush said the United States and Europe share common goals of helping rebuild Iraq , spreading democracy across the gobe and working for peace in the Middle East .
On Friday , in an interview with European reporters , Mr. Bush said the United States ' past disagreements with European allies over the Iraq war do not diminish their shared values .
He also said he plans to discuss concerns about the Middle East , Iran 's nuclear program and the environment during three days of talks with European leaders in Brussels , his first stop .
Mr. Bush will also meet German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Russian President Vladimir Putin during his trip .
The small Midwestern town of Slater ,
Missouri is planning a three-day festival to honor its most illustrious inhabitant , Steve McQueen .
Although born in Indiana , the movie star spent most of his childhood in Slater on his great-uncle 's farm .
Dubbed " The King Of Cool , " Mc Queen starred in a series of famous films in the 1960s and '70s , among them The Great Escape , Bullitt , and Papillon .
He died of cancer in 1980 at age 50 .
Running March 23-25 , " Steve McQueen Days " will include screenings of his movies , a show of memorabilia , and tours of his boyhood home and former school .
A published report quotes Iraqi President Jalal Talabani as saying an immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq would have " catastrophic consequences " for the region .
In an interview published Tuesday in the French newspaper Le Figaro , President Talabani warned against a withdrawal of U.S.-led coalition forces at this time .
He says coalition forces will only withdraw when Iraqi forces are ready to maintain security on their own .
President Talabani also says civil war can still be avoided in Iraq .
He says Iraqi political leaders understand violence is not an option .
Mr. Talabani is scheduled to arrive in Paris on Wednesday for his first official visit to France .
He is expected to hold talks with French President Jacques Chirac Thursday .
Media reports say nine people were killed and 17 injured when an avalanche crashed down a mountain and struck a bus in eastern Turkey .
The bus was traveling Saturday between the cities of Bitlis and Diyarbakir .
Rescuers are searching the wreck for others who may have been injured .
A Human Rights Watch representative says his expulsion from Venezuela following a critical report shows that President Hugo Chavez will not tolerate any criticism .
HRW 's Director for the Americas Jose Miguel Vivanco spoke to reporters Friday in Sao Paulo , Brazil .
Vivanco and his deputy were kicked out of the country
Thursday after their group released a report saying Venezuela 's human rights policies have suffered under President Chavez .
Venezuela 's Foreign Ministry accused HRW of attacking the country 's democratic institutions and illegally interfering in Venezuela 's internal affairs .
The HRW report accused the Chavez government of discriminating against political opponents , undermining freedoms of expression and association and disregarding the need for an independent judiciary .
It also said the government was trying to restrict the work of Venezuelan rights advocates .
Relatives of more than 100 Iranians killed in the crash of a military plane say officials ordered the transport to fly Tuesday despite repeated warnings from the pilot that the aircraft was unsafe .
The Hamshahri newspaper quotes the wife of one of the victims as saying her husband told her by cell phone that the C-130 aircraft sat on a runway in Tehran for three hours Tuesday because the pilot refused to fly .
An official of another newspaper , Shargh told VOA 's Persian service he was told by a staffer aboard the doomed plane that passengers were waiting on a runway for a replacement pilot .
The army is denying the accusations , and Iran 's top prosecutor appointed a special judge to probe the crash .
The plane carrying Iranian journalists crashed into a 10-story apartment building minutes after take-off Tuesday afternoon , killing all 94 people on board and at least 22 others on the ground .
Nepal 's Defense Ministry says at least 29 people - including Maoist rebels , soldiers and police - have been killed in a fierce gunfight in the western part of the country .
An army statement says the clash occurred late Tuesday in the Palpa area , some 250 kilometers west of the capital , Kathmandu .
It says 18 rebels , 10 soldiers and a policeman were killed in the fighting .
No other details were immediately available .
Rebel attacks have increased since the Maoists ended a unilateral cease-fire in early January .
They have been fighting since 1996 to overthrow Nepal 's constitutional monarchy and replace it with a communist state .
About 13,000 people have been killed in the war that shattered Nepal 's economy .
A South African official was set to meet union leaders in an effort to avert a strike by 900,000 public service workers .
The workers , represented by a coalition of unions , are seeking an increase to the government 's offer of a 6.5 percent pay hike .
One union , the 210,000 member Public Servants Association , says its workers could go on strike Thursday .
The other workers have threatened to walk off their jobs next week .
Public Service and Administration Minister Richard Baloyi has called for any strikes to be delayed until he is able to meet with union leaders Thursday .
Eight Chinese laborers who were held hostage by Iraqi militants for five days last week are on their way home .
The group flew out of Baghdad earlier Tuesday , accompanied by several Chinese diplomats .
After a brief stop in Amman , Jordan , they will fly on to Beijing .
The eight men were driving to Jordan when they were kidnapped last Tuesday .
The kidnappers released a video threatening to kill the Chinese workers if Beijing did not explain why they were in Iraq .
The laborers were turned over to a Chinese embassy official at a mosque in Ramdi on Sunday .
The insurgents said they released the men after Beijing promised to discourage its citizens from traveling to Iraq .
A suicide bomber blew himself up in a packed mosque Friday in northwestern Pakistan , killing at least 50 people and wounding around 70 others .
Officials said the mosque , full of worshippers for Friday prayers , was destroyed and has collapsed .
It is located near a police check point and is visited by paramilitary forces and tribal police .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The attack took place in Jamrud town in the Khyber tribal agency , an area where Islamic insurgents have increased attacks on trucks carrying supplies for U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan .
The bombing came just hours before U.S. President Barack Obama announced a comprehensive new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Mr. Obama says al-Qaida terrorists are planning more attacks on the United States from safe havens in Pakistan and urged Islamabad to be a stronger partner in the fight against militants .
The international media rights group , Reporters Without Borders , says it is concerned about a decision by Venezuelan authorities to charge a television journalist with defaming the country 's Supreme Court .
The rights group said in a statement Friday that the state prosecutor 's office filed an " insult " charge against Venevision TV journalist Napoleon Bravo Wednesday .
The group says he faces 15 months in prison , if convicted .
The organization says the charge against Bravo , whose real name is Jose Ovidio Rodriguez Cuesta , stems from a September 2004 broadcast on his program 24 Hours in which he criticized Venezuela 's entire judicial system .
The Bravo case is the first to be tried under a new Venezuelan law that increases sanctions for press offenses .
The media rights group says the case demonstrates the law will seriously compromise press freedom in Venezuela .
The U.S. Justice Department is reopening an investigation into the Bush administration 's domestic surveillance program , marking a major reversal in policy under new Attorney General Michael Mukasey .
The probe will focus on the conduct of Justice Department lawyers in approving the program , which allows the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on the e-mail and telephone conversations of Americans without getting prior approval from a special court .
The Bush administration implemented the program after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks , and said it focused on intercepting international calls and e-mails of Americans and others in the U.S. with suspected terrorism links .
Attorney General Mukasey was formally sworn in Wednesday at a ceremonial event attended by President Bush .
The Justice Department 's Office of Professional Responsibility began the probe in early 2006 , but abandoned it after President Bush denied security clearances to investigators .
Los Angeles is one of the world 's most diverse cities , and a summer music series there brings together the city 's many ethnic communities .
A recent performance by Seun Kuti , son of Afro-beat legend Fela Kuti , kicked off this year 's concert series , bringing the sounds of Lagos , Nigeria to downtown Los Angeles .
Six-thousand people came to celebrate the music and the city 's multi-cultural heritage .
Nnamdi Moweta reports .
Supporters of Nigerian Vice President Atiku Abubakar have launched a new political party to oppose a possible re-election effort by President Olusegun Obasanjo .
They say the new party , the Advanced Congress of Democrats , will allow Mr. Abubakar to contest next year 's presidential elections and help rally opponents of the president .
The spokesman for the new party , Lai Mohammed , tells VOA that efforts to amend the constitution to allow Mr. Obasanjo 's re-election are " unconstitutional , immoral and illegal . "
Nigeria 's parliament is debating a constitutional amendment proposed by supporters of Mr. Obasanjo that would permit presidents three terms in office instead of two .
The president has not yet said whether he will run for a third term if the measure passes .
Mr. Abubakar announced his intention to run for president earlier this month .
British military personnel are due to leave Indonesia 's tsunami-devastated Aceh province Sunday after more than a month working on relief efforts .
British pilots and other personnel have been in Indonesia since the first week in January .
The British Embassy in Jakarta says a Royal Navy vessel will stay in Indonesian waters .
The United States has already started scaling back military relief efforts in Indonesia by pulling out an aircraft carrier that operated a major helicopter relief operation .
Australia has announced plans to withdraw relief forces , as well .
Indonesia was the nation hardest-hit by the December 26 tsunami .
Indonesian officials say the death toll in the country has risen to at least 117,000 , while the number of missing and presumed dead remained at nearly 115,000 .
Pakistani officials say they have arrested a foreigner suspected of links with the al-Qaida terrorist network .
Officials say the suspect was arrested Monday night in a village , Charsadda , northeast of Peshawar , about 50 kilometers from the Afghan border .
Pakistani security forces have rounded up dozens of suspected al-Qaida members following the arrest of the network 's reputed third-in-command , Abu Farraj al-Libbi , earlier this month .
The U.S. military has opened a preliminary investigation into additional allegations of detainee abuse in Iraq .
In California Saturday , a military spokesman said the U.S. Navy launched the probe after being given photographs of Iraqi detainees allegedly being abused by Navy special forces in May 2003 , months before the Abu Ghraib prison scandal .
The Associated Press news agency says one of its reporters found the photographs posted on the Internet , and turned more than a dozen over to Navy officials on Friday .
Also Saturday , pre-trial hearings for two soldiers accused of abusing prisoners at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison in late 2003 got under way on a military base in Texas .
Panama 's dollar-based economy rests primarily on a well-developed services sector that accounts for three-quarters of GDP .
Services include operating the Panama Canal , logistics , banking , the Colon Free Zone , insurance , container ports , flagship registry , and tourism .
Economic growth will be bolstered by the Panama Canal expansion project that began in 2007 and is scheduled to be completed by 2014 at a cost of $ 5.3 billion - about 25 % of current GDP .
The expansion project will more than double the Canal 's capacity , enabling it to accommodate ships that are too large to traverse the existing canal .
The United States and China are the top users of the Canal .
Panama also plans to construct a metro system in Panama City , valued at $ 1.2 billion and scheduled to be completed by 2014 .
Panama 's booming transportation and logistics services sectors , along with aggressive infrastructure development projects , will likely lead the economy to continued growth in 2011 .
Strong economic performance has not translated into broadly shared prosperity , as Panama has the second worst income distribution in Latin America .
About 30 % of the population lives in poverty ; however , from 2006 to 2010 poverty was reduced by 10 percentage points , while unemployment dropped from 12 % to 6 % of the labor force .
Panama and the United States signed a Trade Promotion Agreement in June 2007 , which , when implemented , will help promote the country 's economic growth .
Seeking removal from the Organization of Economic Development 's gray-list of tax havens , Panama has also recently signed various double taxation treaties with other nations .
China says it will reopen Tibet to foreign tourists , after closing it during violent protests in March .
Chinese state media Tuesday quote regional tourism officials as saying the Tibet Autonomous Region will be opened to outsiders on Wednesday .
The Xinhua news agency reports that two Swedish tourists will arrive in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa , on Wednesday and four tourists from Singapore will arrive on Sunday .
Tourists have been prevented from traveling to the region since riots against the Chinese government erupted in Lhasa on March 14 , sparking a harsh crackdown by Chinese troops .
Tibet 's government-in-exile says more than 200 people died in the crackdown on mostly monk-led protests .
China blames Tibetan rioters for the deaths of at least 20 people .
Azerbaijani police have used water cannon and clubs to disperse opposition supporters who were protesting what they consider to be rigged elections and were demanding a new vote .
Police waded into the crowd of at least 10,000 activists in a Baku square after protest leaders announced their intention to remain on the scene beyond the time authorities had allotted for the demonstration .
The protesters hurled stones at the officers .
Witnesses reported a number of injuries .
The clashes were the first time police have intervened to disperse protesters , who have staged a series of demonstrations protesting the November 6 parliamentary vote .
Official election results show the governing party still in control of parliament .
International monitors said the vote fell below democratic standards .
The U.S. embassy in Baku deplored what it called " the unjustified and unprovoked use of force against citizens peacefully exercising their right of assembly . "
Washington and Kabul have agreed in principle to gradually transfer most Afghans in U.S. custody to the Afghan government .
A joint statement issued in Kabul says the Afghan government has agreed to make sure that the returning Afghans pose no threat .
Washington will help Afghanistan in building jails and providing appropriate training .
President Karzai 's spokesman , Khaleeq Ahmed , said Afghan prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention center and the US detention facilities in Afghanistan will be among those handed over .
President Bush and Afghan President Hamid Karzai expressed a strong desire to return Afghan detainees to Afghanistan when they met in Washington in May .
All of the following US Pacific island territories except Midway Atoll constitute the Pacific Remote Islands National Wildlife Refuge ( NWR ) Complex and as such are managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior .
Midway Atoll NWR has been included in a Refuge Complex with the Hawaiian Islands NWR and also designated as part of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument .
These remote refuges are the most widespread collection of marine- and terrestrial-life protected areas on the planet under a single country 's jurisdiction .
They sustain many endemic species including corals , fish , shellfish , marine mammals , seabirds , water birds , land birds , insects , and vegetation not found elsewhere .
At least one person was killed and several others wounded Sunday when police and demonstrators clashed in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Police opened fire on the crowd of stone-throwing protesters in Baramullah town , about 55 kilometers outside Srinigar .
Demonstrators chanting pro-freedom slogans had taken to the streets to call for the release of several people who had been arrested during a recent strike .
Anti-India protests have grown in recent months .
Last week , separatists called for the United Nations to intervene in determining the fate of the disputed region .
And a pro-independence strike shut down large parts of Indian-controlled Kashmir on Friday .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed by both .
Two of the three wars the two countries have fought have been over the disputed territory .
About 70,000 people , mostly civilians , have died in Indian-administered Kashmir since a separatist insurgency began in 1989 .
Governments in several countries in the Middle East have denounced the bomb blasts in London Thursday .
Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad condemned the attacks in a cable sent to Prime Minister Tony Blair .
In Tehran , a spokesman for Iran 's foreign ministry , Hamidreza Asefi , expressed his condolences for the victims and their relatives and said terrorism was inappropriate for achieving any aims .
The kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemned the blasts and said it continues to support intensifying efforts to combat terrorism .
Both Israeli and Palestinian Authority officials condemned the blasts .
And authorities in Kuwait , the United Arab Emirates , Lebanon and Turkey also denounced the attacks .
Kazakhstan 's parliament has backed a call for a referendum to extend the rule of patriarchal President Nursultan Nazarbayev to 2020 .
Members of the lower house of parliament announced the initiative Wednesday , which could allow the popular president to skip elections scheduled for 2012 .
The president 's office has not yet commented on the move .
The 70-year old leader has ruled the former Soviet state for the past 20 years .
His support in the lower house of parliament is practically guaranteed .
The chamber is completely dominated by the ruling party , with not a single seat held by the opposition .
Critics complain about a lack of democracy under Mr. Nazarbayev 's rule .
His supporters praise him for bolstering Kazakhstan 's economy with investments in energy development .
U.S. Navy officials say a U.S. ship encountered three small Iranian speed boats Thursday in the Persian Gulf .
The officials said Friday the USS Typhoon was in the central Gulf when at least one of three high-speed boats approached the ship .
The officials said the boats kept their distance after the Navy ship fired a warning flare .
It is unclear whether the speed boats were armed .
Iranian arabic television Al-Alam reports the Iranian navy denies the incident .
The U.S. Defense Department has said there were three confrontations between the U.S. Navy and Iranian forces in the Persian Gulf from December to January .
One ended after a U.S. ship fired warning shots to deter the Iranian vessel .
The head of Iran 's powerful Guardian Council says his country will withstand any international sanctions over its nuclear program .
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati told state media Friday that Iran is not afraid of such sanctions .
He expressed confidence that Iran will achieve what he called " its rights . "
Britain , France and Germany have been pressing Iran to abandon its nuclear enrichment activities .
The United States says the Iranian program is intended to develop a nuclear weapon , a charge Tehran denies .
Last month , the Bush administration and the Europeans backed an International Atomic Energy Agency resolution that says Iran could be referred to the United Nations Security Council if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
Such a referral could open the way for international sanctions against Tehran .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown is to make his first visit to the United States next week to meet with President Bush .
The White House announced the two-day visit Thursday , saying Brown will arrive at Mr. Bush 's Camp David retreat to the north of the U.S. capital , on July 29 .
A White House spokesman says the two will discuss a broad range of issues , including progress in Iraq and Afghanistan , ending genocide in Darfur and protecting the United States and the United Kingdom from terrorists .
Last month , Prime Minister Brown succeeded Tony Blair , whose critics complained about his support for the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
A German man , allegedly held in a U.S. secret prison in Afghanistan , says he has identified a German police official who visited him there .
Khalid al-Masri , a German citizen of Lebanese descent , has said he was seized by CIA agents in Macedonia in 2003 and taken to Afghanistan , where he was interrogated as a terrorism suspect .
Masri has filed suit against the CIA for wrongful imprisonment , and German prosecutors are probing whether German officials had knowledge of his arrest .
Prosecutors said Tuesday that Masri was " 90 percent " certain that a man in a police line-up was the official who visited him in prison .
However , they said they were concerned that Masri was not absolutely certain .
German officials have denied any knowledge of the case until Masri was released in Albania .
The European Union 's anti-piracy naval force says Somali pirates have hijacked a North Korean-flagged cargo ship .
The EU force says hijackers seized the MV Rim Wednesday in the Gulf of Aden , just south of the Yemeni coast .
In a statement , the EU force says the vessel has altered course and is now heading towards the Somali basin .
The statement says investigators are not certain how many crew members are on board the Libyan-owned ship , and do not know the nationalities of crew members .
The statement says the vessel was outside a recommended travel corridor and had not made contact with maritime authorities in the region .
Somali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last two years , taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom .
On Monday , pirates released a Greek-owned cargo ship they captured two months earlier , after receiving a payment of some $ 3 million .
The outgoing president of Ukraine , Leonid Kuchma , says there will not be a revolution in his country over the nation 's hotly contested presidential election .
On the eve of Sunday 's run-off vote , President Kuchma said in a televised address that authorities will not allow instability to erupt over the vote .
Opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko has warned that his supporters will stage massive demonstrations if electoral fraud is discovered .
The United States has warned it will review its relations with Ukraine if the election fails to be free or fair .
Mr. Yushchenko , with just under 40 percent support , edged out Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych by a half of percentage point in the first round of voting on October 31 .
International observers said the October balloting fell short of democratic standards .
Health officials in Indonesia say local tests show an Indonesian man who died last week was infected with the bird flu virus .
Authorities say the man was in frequent contact with poultry .
The World Health Organization confirmed Sunday that two women who died in Indonesia last week had contracted the H5N1 virus that has killed almost 90 people worldwide since 2003 .
Elsewhere , Iranian officials say laboratory tests have confirmed bird flu has killed 135 swans on the Caspian Sea coast .
If international tests confirm the birds died of the H5N1 strain of the virus , it will be its first appearance in Iran .
In Vienna , Austrian officials say the deadly virus has been confirmed in two dead swans found near the southern city of Graz .
Croatian officials also believe the virus killed at least eight swans found in recent days in the Zagreb area .
The NATO-led mission in Afghanistan has urged civilians to stay away from military patrol vehicles so that they are not mistaken for insurgents .
A spokesman , Bernd Allert , for NATO 's International Security Assistance Force , ISAF , told reporters Wednesday civilian drivers should behave so they can not be mistaken for a threat .
The spokesman warned that ISAF forces are authorized to fire warning shots if unidentified vehicles get too close .
The warning is part of a new public awareness campaign aimed at preventing civilian casualties - an issue that has plagued the alliance over the past year .
It will also include new signs on military vehicles , billboards and television advertisements .
After several incidents in which civilians were killed during anti-insurgent operations last year , Afghan President Hamid Karzai demanded NATO and the U.S.-led coalition review its military strategy .
Ukrainian opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko has accused his rival of trying to steal last month 's flawed election .
During a debate in Kiev Monday , Mr. Yushchenko said the motivating force for a new vote is that Ukrainians desire a democratically elected government .
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych tried to distance himself from former supporter and current President Leonid Kuchma .
He said many Ukrainians lost hope after the breakup of the former Soviet Union , and that it was important for all political forces to work together .
Mr. Yushchenko made his opening remarks in Ukrainian .
Mr. Yanukovych gave his in Russian .
Tensions remain high as both men have warned of potential clashes between supporters prior to the December 26th vote .
Mr. Yushchenko 's assertion that Ukrainian security officials poisoned him with a highly toxic form of dioxin has further inflamed the political divisions .
The U.S. State Department says Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi declined a U.S. request to meet with the highest ranking U.S. official to visit Libya in decades .
A State Department spokesman says Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte instead met with lower-level officials during his visit to Tripoli .
He says talks focused on Libya completing compensation payments to the families of the victims of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie , Scotland .
They also discussed Libya 's prosecution of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor sentenced to death for allegedly infecting 400 children with HIV .
Negroponte and the Libyan officials also discussed the crisis in Darfur .
The U.S. restored full diplomatic ties with Libya last year after the government of Mr. Gadhafi renounced terrorism .
Police in India have arrested a Muslim man in connection with last week 's bombing of a historic mosque in the southern city of Hyderabad that killed 11 people .
Five more people died in police shootings during riots that erupted after the bombing of the 17th century Mecca Mashjid mosque .
Officials say Friday the suspect was detained Tuesday in a small town , Jalna , in western Maharashtra state .
He is the first person to be detained for questioning about the attack .
Security remains tight around the Hyderabad mosque with thousands of police deployed to the area .
Shortly after Friday prayers Friday , police used batons to beat back worshippers protesting the official inquiry into the bombing .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the attack , the third against a mosque in India during the past year .
AN ASS , carrying a load of wood , passed through a pond .
As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing , stumbled and fell , and not being able to rise on account of his load , groaned heavily .
Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation , and said , " What would you do if you had to live here always as we do , when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water ? "
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do large misfortunes .
Hundreds of Pakistanis are fleeing villages in North West Frontier Province , where fighting between government troops and militants loyal to a pro-Taliban religious leader raged for a third straight day .
Army spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad says 10 militants were killed Sunday in fighting with security forces backed by helicopter gunships .
On Saturday , Pakistani officials said militants had executed 13 people , including seven civilians .
The Swat valley has been the scene of battles since Friday after authorities sent more than 2,000 soldiers to counter growing militancy from cleric Maulana Fazlullah .
He is trying to establish strict Islamic law in the area .
In other news , three rockets hit Peshawar , the capital of North West Frontier Province , early Sunday .
Police say one of the rockets landed near the U.S. Consulate , however no deaths were reported .
Lawyers in Pakistan continued their protest marches this week amid an effort to press the government to reinstate the judges replaced last year by President Pervez Musharraf .
After weeks of negotiations with his fellow coalition leader Nawaz Sharif , Asif Ali Zardari says despite differences , he remains confident the two parties will reach agreement .
And some Pakistanis now living in the U.S. say the new government can not succeed without independent judges .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna reports President Musharraf , so far , has made no public comment .
Speculation over the existence of a " southern land " was not confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American commercial operators and British and Russian national expeditions began exploring the Antarctic Peninsula region and other areas south of the Antarctic Circle .
Not until 1840 was it established that Antarctica was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands or an area of ocean .
Several exploration " firsts " were achieved in the early 20th century , but generally the area saw little human activity .
Following World War II , however , there was an upsurge in scientific research on the continent .
A number of countries have set up a range of year-round and seasonal stations , camps , and refuges to support scientific research in Antarctica .
Seven have made territorial claims , but not all countries recognize these claims .
In order to form a legal framework for the activities of nations on the continent , an Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies nor gives recognition to existing territorial claims ; signed in 1959 , it entered into force in 1961 .
Authorities in military-ruled Burma have called on people to report terrorists , following two explosions and the discovery of a mine in Bago division over the last five days .
The official New Light of Myanmar newspaper on Saturday blamed the bombings on anti-government organizations and armed terrorist groups .
The paper said a bomb blast occurred Friday night on a wooden bridge near the village of Kyauk-ein-su .
That blast was followed about 10 minutes later by an explosion near an empty house in the village of Sar-dan .
No casualties were reported in either explosion .
The report also said an improvised mine had been found last Sunday in Kanyutkwin , Phyu township after authorities received a tip .
Zimbabwe 's economy is growing at a brisk pace despite continuing political uncertainty .
Following a decade of contraction , Zimbabwe 's economy recorded real growth of 5.9 % in 2010 .
But the government of Zimbabwe still faces a number of difficult economic problems , including a large external debt burden and insufficient formal employment .
Zimbabwe 's 1998 - 2002 involvement in the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo drained hundreds of millions of dollars from the economy .
The government 's land reform program , characterized by chaos and violence , has badly damaged the commercial farming sector , the traditional source of exports and foreign exchange and the provider of 400,000 jobs , turning Zimbabwe into a net importer of food products .
The EU and the US provide food aid on humanitarian grounds , though on a smaller scale than before .
Until early 2009 , the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe routinely printed money to fund the budget deficit , causing hyperinflation .
The power-sharing government formed in February 2009 has led to some economic improvements , including the cessation of hyperinflation by eliminating the use of the Zimbabwe dollar and removing price controls .
The economy is registering its first growth in a decade , but will be reliant on further political improvement for greater growth .
A U.S. newspaper report says some U.S. officials are critical of Afghan President Hamid Karzai 's efforts to curtail Afghanistan 's huge heroin trade .
The New York Times , in a story published Sunday , says U.S. diplomats in Kabul expressed alarm at the slow pace of poppy eradication in a recent memo to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
The memo accuses local officials and village elders of hampering a U.S.-funded program to destroy poppy crops used to make the illegal drug .
And it faults top Afghan officials , including Mr. Karzai for doing little to overcome that resistance .
The Times says the criticism of Mr. Karzai reflects mounting frustration among some American officials that plans to uproot large swaths of Afghanistan 's poppy crop have produced little success .
The newspaper says some State Department officials defended the Afghan president , saying bad weather and logistical problems also contributed to the ineffectiveness of the eradication program .
Japan and North Korea are to hold talks this week on issues that have blocked the two countries from forging diplomatic ties .
Japan 's chief cabinet secretary , Shinzo Abe , said Wednesday the talks will take place in Beijing Saturday and Sunday .
He said discussions will focus on the abduction of Japanese citizens by North Korea , as well as reparation requests by North Korea related to Japan 's occupation of the Korean Peninsula from 1910 to World War II .
Mr. Abe reiterated Japan 's stance that normalizing relations with North Korea will not be possible until the abduction issue is resolved .
North Korea admits kidnapping 13 Japanese citizens to train its spies in the 1970s and 1980s .
Pyongyang has returned five , but says the other eight are dead .
Japan wants conclusive proof of their deaths and says there are other cases of suspected abductions that Pyongyang has not properly addressed .
US , Asian , and European stock prices declined Monday , extending a week of losses on the world 's markets .
Major U.S. stock indexes swung between gains and losses in Monday 's volatile trading but were down as much as one percent by the close .
Some analysts said traders were worried about mortgage defaults , a strengthening yen , and tumbling stock markets abroad .
Major indexes in London , Paris , and Frankfurt also lost as much as one percent .
Asian stock markets were hit even harder , with major indexes in Japan , Hong Kong , and India down between three and four percent at the close of trading .
The losses Monday follow major declines in stock prices last week in many markets .
An almost nine percent slump in Shanghai last Tuesday triggered a wave of selling on global markets , many of which had been trading near record highs .
A French aid group says it will suspend activities in Darfur because the situation in western Sudan has become too dangerous for its workers .
The group Medecins du Monde ( Doctors of the World ) said Monday , it has suspended its activities in Darfur for an undetermined period of time .
Officials said there is an imbalance between the help it is able to provide and the risks to its staff members .
Medecins du Monde has provided medical care in Darfur since the middle of 2004 , assisting thousands of refugees in the Kalma refugee camp .
It also operated mobile clinics to treat refugees in remote villages .
Aid groups and United Nations officials have reported a worsening of Darfur 's security situation in recent months .
More than 200,000 people have died and more than two million others have been displaced since fighting between Darfur rebels and Sudan 's government began in early 2003 .
Iraq 's government has ordered its troops to Baghdad 's international airport to reopen the facility after the British company that protects it shut it down in a payment dispute .
Acting Transportation Minister Esmat Amer said Friday keeping the airport open is a matter of Iraqi sovereignty .
He said flights will resume Friday .
The British security firm Global Strategies Group says the Iraqi government is seven months behind in payments .
The company says it will continue to secure the complex , but flights will be grounded until the bills are paid .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , insurgent attacks have left two Iraqis dead and at least six others injured .
In other developments , former American hostage Roy Hallums , who was rescued by American troops Wednesday , is on his way home to the United States .
China is reporting its ninth human bird flu death .
Officials confirmed Sunday that a 32-year-old man in Guangdong province , which borders Hong Kong , died from the H5N1 virus last week .
Authorities in Hong Kong have announced a ban on poultry and live bird imports from Guangdong .
Meanwhile , French officials report finding bird flu in a dead wild bird on the Mediterranean coast .
This is several hundred kilometers south of France 's other bird flu outbreak on a turkey farm .
More than 40 countries have banned French poultry imports .
Also , Poland is reporting its first H5N1 cases in two swans in the northern city of Torun .
Bird flu has killed at least 94 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Tourism is the mainstay of the small open Aruban economy , together with offshore banking .
Oil refining and storage ended in 2009 .
The rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has resulted in a substantial expansion of other activities .
Over 1.5 million tourists per year visit Aruba with 75 % of those from the US .
Construction continues to boom with hotel capacity five times the 1985 level .
Tourist arrivals rebounded strongly following a dip after the 11 September 2001 attacks .
The government has made cutting the budget and trade deficits a high priority .
An Islamic militant group in Iraq says it has taken a U.S. soldier hostage and is threatening to kill him unless Iraqis held in U.S. prisons are freed within 72 hours .
A group calling itself the Mujahedeen Squadrons made the kidnapping claim and demand in a statement posted on an Islamist website Tuesday , along with a photograph of the alleged captive .
The Internet statement 's authenticity could not be verified , and the U.S. military said it could not confirm the claim .
Cameroon state radio reports as many as 30 people have died or are missing from a boat accident off the coast in the Gulf of Guinea .
The radio report Tuesday said 30 other people survived the accident and were being treated at a local hospital .
It said the boat was traveling from Nigeria to Gabon when it went down late Monday near the southwestern fishing village of Campo .
The report said the boat was carrying nationals from Nigeria , Mali and Benin when it capsized .
It is not clear what caused the accident .
The Gulf of Guinea is often used as a transit route by West Africans looking to find jobs in Gabon and Cameroon .
Allies of Iran 's president-elect are denying allegations by several Americans held hostage in Iran more than 25 years ago that he played a key role in their detention .
Aides to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , and several of the 1979 hostage takers , insist he did not participate in the international standoff .
In interviews with U.S. news media , several former hostages described Mr. Ahmadinejad as " a cruel individual " who interrogated the captives .
But other hostages say they do n't remember him .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was in his early 20 's at the time of the hostage taking and has not publicly addressed the allegations .
The White House says it is looking into the allegations .
A group of radical Iranian students stormed the U.S. embassy in Tehran in November 1979 and held 52 Americans hostage for 444 days .
Iraqi officials say at least five people were killed and several others wounded Monday in two separate insurgent attacks in Baghdad .
They say the attacks , involving one suicide car bombing , took place in a southern district of Baghdad and that they were aimed at senior police and government officials .
An Iraqi militant group ( the Islamic Army of Iraq ) posted a video on the Internet today that showed a blindfolded man being shot in the back of the head .
( The pictures did not show the victim 's face . )
The group claimed the killing was of American hostage Ronald Allen Schultz , who was abducted earlier this month .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says eight high-level detainees from the former Iraqi regime have been freed .
A spokesman ( Lt. Col. Barry Johnson ) said the men were freed Saturday , after a board found that they were no longer security threats .
European Union lawmakers say they will press U.S. and European leaders to appear before an inquiry into alleged secret CIA prisons in Europe .
The vice president of an investigative panel looking into the matter , Sarah Ludford , said Thursday U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and other foreign and defense ministers could be invited to appear before the panel .
But EU officials concede they have no legal authority to subpoena them .
The 46-member temporary committee was created this month after reports by U.S. media and human rights groups of secret CIA prisons in new East European EU member states .
European officials say the committee will try to find out whether the U.S. or other nations abducted suspects , transported them to countries where they could be aggressively interrogated , and housed them at secret detention sites .
Iraqi officials say the Iranian military has fired artillery at several villages in northern Iraq where Iran believes Kurdish rebels are based .
Iraqi Kurdish officials say Iranian forces shelled the villages in Iraq 's Sulaimaniyah province near the Iranian border Sunday and Saturday .
No casualties were reported , but the government of northern Iraq 's Kurdish region says Iranian shelling has caused serious concern among residents .
It strongly condemned the bombardment and demanded that it stop immediately .
Iran has not confirmed the artillery strikes .
The Iranian military has frequently shelled areas of northern Iraq it suspects of harboring members of the Kurdish separatist group PEJAK , the Party of Free Life of Kurdistan .
Tehran accuses the group of launching attacks inside Iran from bases in Iraq .
Iraq 's central government in Baghdad has criticized the Iranian artillery strikes and warned they could harm relations between the two neighbors .
The United States has launched an advertisement campaign on Pakistani television and radio offering multi-million dollar rewards for information leading to the arrest of Osama bin Laden and 13 other al-Qaida leaders .
The brief television commercial which shows pictures of Osama bin Laden and his deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri , offers a $ 25 million reward for each of them and a lesser amount for the others .
The ad also promises resettlement and witness protection for informants and their families .
A key ally in Washington 's war on terror , Pakistan has already captured about 500 al-Qaida suspects and handed them over to the United States .
U.S. officials believe bin Laden and other key militants have been hiding along the rugged border between Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Two senior U.S. envoys have delayed a trip to the Middle East this week after Israeli Prime Minster Ariel Sharon suffered a major stroke .
A State Department spokesman said the trip , set to begin Thursday , would be rescheduled .
The envoys were to meet with Israeli and Palestinian officials in an effort to prevent delays in Palestinian legislative elections set for January 25 .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has said he may postpone the vote if Israel makes good on a threat to block voting in East Jerusalem .
Thursday , Mr. Abbas expressed concern for Mr. Sharon 's medical condition , but said it would not affect the election .
In Jerusalem , Israel 's acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said the Israeli government is fully operational .
Officials said Israeli elections set for March 28 will be held as scheduled .
A poll taken by a major Japanese newspaper shows overwhelming support for a change in the law to allow a woman to succeed to the throne .
The Tokyo Shimbun said Sunday that 84 percent of its poll respondents approved of the idea that an empress could rule Japan .
It said only six percent of respondents said succession should be limited to males .
Under Japanese law , only males who have emperors on their father 's side can succeed to the throne .
The question of succession to the throne , now occupied by 71-year-old Emperor Akihito , is gaining urgency because no boys have been born into the Imperial household for 40 years .
U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist says he will continue to perform his duties on the nation 's highest court as long as his health permits .
In a statement issued to the media Thursday , Chief Justice Rehnquist said he is not about to announce his retirement -- and that he wants to put to rest what he called " speculation and unfounded rumors " of his imminent retirement .
The chief justice released his statement hours after he was discharged from a hospital outside Washington .
Mr. Rehnquist was admitted Tuesday for a fever .
The 80-year-old chief justice has thyroid cancer , and his health has raised questions about how much longer he will be able to serve on the nine-member high court .
President Bush is currently considering choices to replace another judge on the court , retiring justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
The U.S. ambassador to Iraq says the United States may cut funding for Iraq 's police because of their failure to punish those responsible for torture .
Zalmay Khalilzad said in an interview with The New York Times newspaper that U.S. officials are reviewing some programs because of a U.S. law that bans funding security forces that violate human rights .
But Khalilzad says he hopes Iraqi Interior Minister Jawad al-Bolani does punish those responsible to keep the funding .
Earlier this month , a special United Nations investigator said torture in Iraq may be worse now than it was when Saddam Hussein was in power .
He called the situation out of hand and said he examined reports of torture at official Iraqi detention centers and by private militias .
China has reported another flock of bird flu-infected fowl - its ninth outbreak in a month .
The latest outbreak killed poultry in Anhui province .
The announcement came as World Health Organization experts are in China to investigate whether bird flu caused the death of a 12-year-old girl and sickened two other people in Hunan province .
Vietnam also reported new outbreaks of avian flu among birds in four provinces today .
The deadly H5N1 strain of the virus has been found in 10 of the country 's 64 provinces and has killed more than 40 people in Vietnam since 2002 .
Taiwanese officials are on alert as agriculture officials reported finding a sample of the H7N3 strain of bird flu in droppings left by a migratory bird .
The H7 strains are also known to infect humans .
Police in Australia say they have charged eight people with involvement in an illegal Asian World Cup betting ring .
New South Wales police said Wednesday they took six men from Hong Kong and two Malaysian women into custody after raiding a hotel in central Sydney .
Officers from a special South East Asian Crime Squad seized computers , networking equipment , calculators , mobile phones , documents and cash .
In a statement , police say the eight were part of an Asian betting operation and that they flew into Australia three days ago .
They were charged with unlicensed bookmaking under Australia 's Unlawful Gaming Act and are due to appear in court on July 4 .
The accused have been turned over to immigration department officials pending their court appearance .
The head of China 's environmental protection agency has resigned following a chemical spill that polluted a major river and forced the shutdown of water supplies in parts of the country 's northeast .
The official Xinhua news agency reported the resignation Friday , but did not provide details .
Meanwhile , China 's foreign ministry says it is sending Russia 150 tons of activated charcoal to help filter pollution from the toxic chemical slick moving along the Amur river toward the Russian city of Khabarovsk .
Earlier this week , Russian environmental officials reported higher levels of benzene in the river , but said it is not clear if the toxic chemical is from the massive spill in China two weeks ago .
A November 13 explosion at a factory dumped 100 tons of poisonous chemicals into China 's Songhua river .
A mutilated Afghan woman , who appeared on a recent cover of Time magazine , has arrived in the United States where she will undergo reconstructive surgery .
The 18-year-old , named Aisha , will decide with doctors at the Grossman Burn Foundation in Los Angeles in the U.S. western state of California how to replace her nose , which was sliced off by her abusive husband .
Her ears were also hacked off .
Aisha , who has been identified only by her first name , says her nose was cut off as punishment by the Taliban for running away from her abusive husband and in-laws .
Activists and human rights workers say they are glad Aisha is getting treatment , but note that thousands of other women continue to be victims of domestic violence in Afghanistan .
Burma 's military government has rejected a U.S. State Department report that slams Burma for restricting religious activities .
The annual report was issued earlier this month and lists countries , including Burma , Iran and China , as nations " engaged in or tolerating particularly severe violations of religious freedom . "
Burma 's Foreign Ministry said Saturday that the allegations were politically motivated and unjustified .
It said no serious problems exist among religious groups in Burma .
Burma is overwhelmingly Buddhist , with small minorities of Christians , Muslims , Hindus and animists .
It has long been criticized by rights groups and countries , including the United States , for its human rights record .
The State Department report is meant to help U.S. officials shape policy , conduct diplomacy and decide whether to help private groups promoting religious freedom in their countries .
U.N. official says Secretary-General Kofi Annan has written a letter to Iran 's new president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , demanding the release of a jailed dissident journalist .
The official , speaking on condition of anonymity because Iran had not yet received the letter , said Mr. Annan is seeking Akbar Ganji 's immediate release on humanitarian grounds .
Mr. Ganji was jailed in 2001 , after writing news stories linking public officials to the murders of political dissidents .
Two months ago , he began a hunger strike to protest his imprisonment .
He remains in government custody at a Tehran hospital and is believed to be in critical condition .
Iranian officials say Mr. Ganji has ended the hunger strike .
But his wife told VOA she could not confirm the claim because she had been denied access to her husband .
The trial of scores of soldiers and a dozen civilians accused of plotting a series of coups in Mauritania resumed Tuesday , despite a boycott by defense lawyers protesting the arrest of a colleague .
The defense lawyers walked out on Monday after the judge jailed one of them for what he called a lack of discipline .
A handful of suspects were questioned during Tuesday 's proceedings , but all refused to give any answers since their lawyers were absent .
Those on trial include two opposition leaders and former Mauritanian President Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidallah .
They said they will plead innocent to the charges .
There are a total of 181 suspects accused of taking part in successive coup plots against current President Maaouiya Ould Taya since last year .
World oil prices hit a new record high Monday of nearly $ 64 a barrel .
The price of crude oil for future delivery was as high as $ 63.95 a barrel in New York trading .
Analysts say the rising prices reflect security concerns in the world 's largest oil producer , Saudi Arabia .
The United States has temporarily closed its embassy in the Saudi capital , along with some other diplomatic facilities in the country , after threats of terrorist attacks .
Australia and Britain also warned of possible attacks .
Experts say oil prices also are being pushed upward by problems at refineries .
Crude oil prices are at least 40 percent higher today than they were one year ago .
Officials in Somalia 's capital say at least 10 people have been killed in fighting between government troops and police .
The gunbattle broke out Saturday in the Hamarjajab district in the south of Mogadishu .
Local officials say the fighting was sparked by an argument between the police and soldiers .
At least 10 civilians were wounded in the incident .
Most of those killed are said to be soldiers .
Somalia has endured nearly 20 years of war and chaos since the fall of the last stable government in 1991 .
The country 's current government is fighting Islamist insurgent groups and controls only small sections of the capital , with the help of African Union peacekeepers .
Robert Zoellick is welcomed by an African Union soldier as he arrives in Northern Darfur region 's administrative capital El Fasher U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick has called on the Sudanese government to accept responsibility for disarming the Arab militias accused of subjecting civilians to rape and other violence .
Mr. Zoellick arrived in the war-torn Darfur region Friday to assess the security and humanitarian crisis that has left tens of thousands of people dead and has displaced more than two million others .
He is scheduled to meet with Sudanese officials later .
Earlier , the U.S. diplomat met the head of the African Union mission in Sudan Said Djinnit .
Both agreed that security remains unacceptably low and that an increase in the number of peacekeepers and an expansion of their presence is essential to restoring civility .
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi says India 's decision to go ahead with a pipeline project to bring Iranian gas to India via Pakistan will encourage regional peace and trade .
Mr. Kharazi is on a two-day visit to New Delhi and he made the remarks as he met Indian Foreign Minister Natwar Singh and was due to call on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
He said India 's recent approval of the gas pipeline has created an encouraging atmosphere for pushing ahead this highly important project .
Negotiations on the more than 2,700 kilometer pipeline began in 1994 .
But strained relations between India and Pakistan held up approval of the project .
The talks gained momentum after India 's new Congress government came to power last May and pushed forward an ongoing peace process with Pakistan .
The French government has condemned remarks by a top Vatican official linking the pedophile scandal in the Catholic Church to homosexuality .
French Foreign Ministry spokesman Bernard Valero Wednesday said the remarks linking the abuse to homosexuality was " unacceptable . "
He said France is committed to the struggle against discrimination and prejudice linked to sexual orientation and gender identity .
Gay rights groups also condemned the remarks by Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone .
The top aide to Pope Benedict sparked a furor Monday when he said that homosexuality and not the priestly vow of celibacy is the cause of widespread sex abuse of children by the Catholic clergy .
In statement Wednesday , Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said that Bertone did not refer to the society at large , but only to the data gathered by Vatican investigators .
Critics have accused Pope Benedict and other church leaders of protecting abusive priests and attempting to cover up the scandal .
Vice President Dick Cheney says the Bush administration will continue " full speed ahead " with its Iraq war policy , no matter which party takes control of U.S. Congress in Tuesday 's elections .
In a television interview to be aired Sunday , Cheney acknowledges the conflict is not popular with the American public , but says the administration is doing what it thinks is right .
Recent polls suggest the opposition Democratic Party is poised to take control of the House of Representatives , and possibly the Senate .
The vice president repeated the administration 's assertion that Democrats do not have a concrete plan on Iraq .
He also says the opposition will not extend the tax cuts President Bush successfully pushed through Congress in 2001 .
Hospital officials in Israel say the condition of comatose former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has deteriorated further .
A statement issued Monday from the Tel Aviv hospital where Mr. Sharon is being treated says the former prime minister has a new chest infection and his urine output has decreased significantly .
The 78-year-old Mr. Sharon has been unconscious since early January when he suffered a massive stroke .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai led his country 's Independence Day celebrations Sunday with a call for young Afghans to educate themselves to preserve their freedom .
Mr. Karzai told thousands of people gathered at the Kabul sports stadium that Afghanistan was still threatened by enemies , referring to the Taleban-led insurgency .
Meanwhile , Mullah Omar , the elusive Taleban leader in Afghanistan , issued a statement calling for people to join the insurgency to oust the U.S.-backed Karzai government .
Afghanistan served as a buffer between the British and Russian empires until it won independence from British control on August 19th of 1919 .
Come one , Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill
The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your entire family , other employees , or maybe even your neighbors .
Saturday , September 20 , 1997 , from 2:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m. , marks a special day , as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill .
A fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun ! !
For this event , when you purchase a corporate picnic table , you will be able to bring 16 people .
( and if you need room for a couple of more , we can swing that too ! )
The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will have a tough time deciding what to do .
From basketball , kickball , volleyball , archery , crafts , an egg toss , and even a walk through our creek , you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry .
Hungry , you bet ! We 'll prepare a hog roast and hot dogs for the kids , with all the fixings .
In addition , we will have soft drinks and a raffle , so that you can walk home with a great prize !
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you , your family , employees , and maybe even your neighbors .
Join in this wonderful event and help Jameson Camp continue to provide the year-round support that gives kids a chance to create dreams .
Simply fill out the enclosed card , and we will see you at the Grill !
One of our volunteers will be contacting you soon .
Questions ?
Call Pat Bray at 241-2661 or e-mail , jcfundrzr@aol.com
Oil prices hit a 17-month low Monday as investors worried that a global economic slowdown will cut demand for energy .
At the close of trading , the price of a barrel of oil was down less than one dollar to hit $ 63.22 .
Earlier , prices went as low as $ 61.30 .
Oil prices fell even though OPEC ( the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ) members said Friday they would cut production by more than five percent ( 1.5 million barrels per day ) .
OPEC produces about two-fifths of the world 's oil .
Iran 's OPEC governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi says the cartel will consider further production cuts to help stabilize the oil market if demand does not pick up .
Oil prices are down more than 50 percent since hitting a record high of more than $ 147 a barrel in July .
The European Commission says it will initiate legal action against France over that country 's failure to comply with European legal rulings in six cases dealing with environmental protection .
The Commission , the EU 's policy initiating body , says France has failed to react to several court rulings by the European Court of Justice since 2001 .
The cases relate to the protection of water , species and habitats , as well as waste treatment .
The Commission says that under the rulings , France must adjust its national environmental laws to bring them in line with EU regulations .
Otherwise , it says , France could incur fines .
The Associated Press quotes French officials as saying their government has made it a priority since 2002 to catch up on its delays in enforcing EU directives .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb killed six civilians and wounded nine others Sunday in southern Kandahar province .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombing .
Roadside bombs are a favorite weapon of Taliban insurgents in their campaign against foreign forces and the Afghan government , but civilians often fall prey to the explosions .
U.S. and NATO commanders have warned of an increase in violence as international and Afghan forces work to clear the south of Taliban insurgents .
In other developments Sunday , the Dutch are scheduled to withdraw the last of their 1,600-member force from Afghanistan .
And in the Afghan capital , Kabul , hundreds of demonstrators protested the killing of 52 civilians in a NATO rocket strike .
NATO disputes the report of civilian deaths in the Helmand province attack .
Indian police say they have arrested a top militant commander blamed for dozens of attacks and tourist killings in Indian Kashmir .
Authorities said Saturday that Mudasir Gujri was arrested in Jammu - Kashmir , India 's only Muslim majority state .
State police chief Gopal Sharma told a news conference that Mudasir is believed to be the main planner of Lashkar-e-Toiba , a Pakistan-based Kashmiri militant group , and the mastermind behind at least 25 recent attacks .
The police chief called the arrest a great setback to the militants , but added that once one terror cell is defeated , " another one comes up . "
Indian officials have said they suspect last week 's railway attacks in Mumbai that killed nearly 200 people were carried out by Lashkar-e-Toiba .
The group , which is fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , has denied involvement .
Venezuela 's president is urging President Bush to use his second term in office to strengthen ties with Latin American nations .
President Hugo Chavez says he hopes President Bush 's foreign policy agenda will include efforts aimed at repairing strained relations with Venezuela .
The statement comes as President Chavez arrived in Santo Domingo Saturday for a meeting with Dominican President Leonel Fernandez .
The relationship between Venezuela and the U.S. has been troubled since 2002 , when Washington endorsed a coup that briefly ousted President Chavez from office .
The Associated Press quotes the Dominican President as saying his country is willing to serve if it can be helpful in mediating a return to good relations between Venezuela and the U.S.
An Army investigator is reported to have recommended seeking the death penalty against four U.S. soldiers accused of murdering Iraqis .
The Associated Press says the recommendation by Colonel James Daniel will be forwarded to Army officials for a final decision .
The news agency says it has obtained a report in which the Colonel concludes the slayings were premeditated and warranted the death penalty , based on evidence he heard at an August hearing .
The four soldiers , part of the 101st Airborne division , are accused of killing three Iraqi men during a raid near Samarra on May 9 .
The soldiers have denied any wrongdoing , and have said they were following orders to kill all military age Iraqis they encountered on their mission .
Their commanding officer denied issuing such an order .
Thousands of Buddhist pilgrims gathered at a temple in southern Russia Tuesday to join prayers led by the Dalai Lama , who has been allowed in the country for the first time in more than 12 years .
The Tibetan spiritual leader was visiting the Khurul Monastery during the second day of this three-day visit to Russia 's Buddhist region of Kalmykia .
China has criticized Moscow 's decision to grant the Dalai Lama a visa , saying Beijing does not approve of any country allowing him to engage in what China calls separatist activities .
Russian officials say they issued him a visa with the expectation he would not engage in any political activities .
Moscow has rejected visa requests from the Dalai Lama at least three times in the past .
The head of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) is assuring consumers there is no risk of catching bird flu from properly cooked food .
Dr. Lee Jong-Wook said Monday that none of the 173 confirmed bird flu cases since 2003 came from eating well-cooked poultry or eggs .
Dr. Lee says poultry products are an important source of protein and that thorough cooking kills the virus .
European poultry farmers have said they have lost millions of dollars from people giving up chickens because of bird flu fears .
French officials say 20 countries have banned French poultry since bird flu was found on a commercial turkey farm last week .
Meanwhile , the virus has spread to a third African country with Niger reporting the disease in domestic ducks .
Bird flu has also been found in Nigeria and Egypt .
In Europe , Bosnia has reported its first bird flu cases in swans .
A newly released poll shows Americans may be ready to change the political party in control of Congress .
An Associated Press / Ipsos poll released Friday found that 49 percent of those surveyed would like to see opposition Democrats in control of Congress while 36 percent favored the ruling Republicans .
Midterm elections will not be held until November .
Inside the House of Representatives , a petition has begun circulating among Republicans calling for the election of new party leadership .
Former House Leader Tom Delay relinquished his leadership position in Congress when he was indicted on money-laundering charges but said he would reclaim the post when he clears himself of the charges .
Republican house members say recent reports of Mr. Delay 's association with a disgraced lobbyist make his timely return to leadership unlikely .
The Minnesota Fish and Game Comission wanted to develop a fish that would offer more for their sportsmen so they crossed a Coho with a Walleye and called it a Kowal .
It grew to a nice size and reproduced well but it would n't bite .
They crossed the Kowal with a Muskie and called it a Kowalski but they were so stupid they had to teach them how to swim .
China 's state-run news agency says a coal mine accident in central Henan province has killed 13 miners and left 66 missing .
Xinhua , citing the state 's work safety agency , says Tuesday 's accident took place in Pingdingshan city .
It gave no other information .
Chinese coal mines are notoriously dangerous .
Accidents killed more than 3,000 people last year
If you owe the bank $ 100 , that 's your problem .
If you owe the bank $ 100 million , that 's the bank 's problem .
The Ukrainian parliament has ousted the government of Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko in a no-confidence vote .
A majority of 243 lawmakers in the 450-member chamber on Wednesday approved the no-confidence measure brought by the party of Regions led by newly-elected President Viktor Yanukovych .
Mr. Yanukovych defeated Ms. Tymoshenko in a presidential runoff election last month .
Under Ukraine 's constitution , the Tymoshenko government is automatically required to resign , although it can stay on as a caretaker until a new government is appointed .
Ms. Tymoshenko earlier indicated she would resign immediately , if the no-confidence measure was approved .
Family , friends and residents of a small town in the U.S. state of Ohio are mourning the loss of 19 U.S. Marines - all from the same unit - killed this week in Iraq .
On Wednesday , 14 Marines from the 3rd Battalion , 25th Marines unit based in the Ohio town of Brook Park died when their vehicle hit a roadside bomb .
Five more Marines from the same unit were killed in an ambush on Monday .
The deaths have rattled the residents of the small Cleveland suburb , which has just over 20,000 residents .
Local media say almost everyone in the town knew one or more of the Marines killed in this week 's attacks .
Relatives of the Marines killed have expressed both grief and anger , some calling for President Bush to withdraw the troops from Iraq , while others say the deaths only reaffirm their support for the war .
Zimbabwe 's state-run Herald newspaper says authorities have temporarily closed a school where at least 53 students were sexually abused .
The Herald reports that five suspects , including a teacher and a caretaker , carried out the abuse at the school in the southeastern town of Macheke .
The paper says 16 girls were repeatedly abused by one person and infected with sexually transmitted diseases .
The Herald quotes Zimbabwean Education Minister Aeneas Chigwedere as saying the school closed a week early and all staff were transferred immediately .
It says the school will re-open on September 1 under a new administration .
Germany and the United States are two of the biggest gainers in this month 's world football rankings released by the International Football Federation ( FIFA ) on Wednesday .
After an impressive performace at the Confederations Cup , Germany moved up 10 spots to 11th place overall .
The U.S. team moved up four spots to sixth in the world , its highest-ever ranking , thanks to the team 's success at the ongoing CONCACAF Gold Cup .
Brazil remains atop the rankings followed by Argentina and the Netherlands , which each moved up one spot .
The Czech Republic fell two slots to fourth place , followed by Mexico , which rose one spot to fifth .
The U.S. team is sixth , with France down two positions in seventh place .
England dropped one place to eighth , with Spain up one slot in ninth place and Portugal falling two spots to 10th place .
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the farmyard .
One at last put the other to flight .
The vanquished Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner , while the conqueror , flying up to a high wall , flapped his wings and crowed exultingly with all his might .
An Eagle sailing through the air pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons .
The vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner , and ruled henceforth with undisputed mastery .
Pride goes before destruction .
Kosovo 's delegation for possible talks on the future of the United Nations-run province has met for the first time and stressed it would seek independence for the largely ethnic-Albanian region .
After the meeting , Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova said seeking unification of Kosovo with Albania would create more problems .
He says an independent Kosovo is the best solution for the Balkans .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Wednesday said he will soon decide whether to start the Kosovo talks .
Kosovo is officially part of Serbia , and authorities in Belgrade oppose any change in that status .
Meanwhile , the International Committee of the Red Cross says Kosovo and Serbian authorities have identified the remains of 200 more people unaccounted for since the conflict of the late 1990s and returned them to their families in the past few months .
But it says there is no word on the fate of additional 2,500 .
The center-left opposition bloc has won the lower house in Italy 's parliamentary elections by a razor-thin margin while the race for the Senate is still unclear .
Official results give the opposition 49.8 percent of the vote while Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi 's ruling conservative coalition wins 49.7 percent .
Under Italy 's new election laws , the opposition will automatically control 55 percent of the seats in the lower house .
Meanwhile , officials are giving the Berlusconi coalition a one-seat margin in the senate - 155 to 154 .
But six seats chosen by Italians voting abroad still to be counted .
A coalition must control both the senate and the lower house in order to form a government .
Prime Minister Berlusconi and Mr. Prodi have both called for new elections if neither side controls both houses .
The election came after an angry campaign full of insults by both sides .
Three school children were among at least 13 people killed Wednesday in a series of attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Police say the children were headed to school when they were killed by a roadside bomb in central Baghdad .
Shootings and three car bombs in Baghdad claimed 10 more lives , including those of six policemen .
The U.S. military also announced that U.S. soldiers killed five suspected terrorists in incidents south of Baghdad this week .
Meanwhile , the Pentagon has confirmed the authenticity of a set of photographs aired on Australian television of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners at Iraq 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison .
Defense officials say the photos , which show graphic abuse , were among those investigated after the prison scandal two years ago .
Those photos sparked widespread protests against U.S. presence in Iraq .
Russian environmental officials have detected an increase in the level of cancer-causing benzene in the Amur River , but they said it is not clear if it is from the November 13 Chinese chemical spill .
Officials in Russia 's far east said it could take several more days before the worst of the spill reaches Russian territory .
Also Wednesday , scientists with the non-profit World Wildlife Fund rejected claims that the toxic slick poses less of a threat as it becomes diluted .
They said the full extent of the damage may not be understood until well after the spring thaw , when melting ice frees trapped chemicals .
An explosion at a Chinese factory two weeks ago released some 100 tons of cancer-causing agents .
They are now flowing down China 's Songhua River towards Russia , forcing cities to shut down water systems over contamination fears .
U.S. and Russian officials have opened a customs control center in Moscow aimed at improving Russia 's ability to prevent illegal trafficking in nuclear-related materials .
Before the center opened Thursday , customs offices along Russia 's expansive border regions communicated with their Moscow headquarters primarily by telephone .
The new U.S.-funded center provides electronic data transfer between the outposts and Moscow .
Russian officials say the customs offices managed to block 200 attempts to take radioactive materials into or out of the country last year .
Since 1998 , the United States has spent millions of dollars to assist Russia in preventing trafficking in nuclear materials and equipment .
Austria has assumed the presidency of the European Union for a six-month term .
Britain , which had held the EU leadership since July , turned over the presidency to Austria and its Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel Sunday .
Britain led the European Union during difficult and prolonged negotiations on a new budget for the 25-member group , and also bridged deep divisions within the bloc to begin talks with Turkey on EU membership for the secular Muslim state .
During Austria 's leadership term , Chancellor Schuessel will try to revive efforts to reach agreement on a controversial European constitution .
The project was all but abandoned since French and Dutch voters rejected the charter last year .
Finland is next in line for the EU presidency after Austria 's term .
The Afghan Defense Ministry says Afghan and U.S-led forces inflicted heavy casualties on insurgents in a battle Sunday in the eastern province of Nuristan .
Neither Afghan nor U.S. military officials said how many insurgents were killed .
Afghan officials said one of their soldiers had been killed .
The military officials said there were no reports of civilian casualties .
Nuristan officials dispute that , saying at least 20 civilians died in the attack and more were wounded .
Defense Ministry officials say eight insurgents were captured , while Nuristan leaders say those detained were civilians .
The Afghan Defense Ministry is investigating the situation .
Afghan and U.S. forces undertook the operation to clear insurgents from the remote province near the Pakistani border .
Nuristan is a known stronghold of Taliban-led militants .
One Nuristan leader said the Taliban had been in the area , but left before the fighting started .
Venezuela and Cuba have signed 16 new cooperation agreements , including accords on telecommunications , tourism and the economy .
The agreements were signed in Caracas Wednesday by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage .
During a news conference with Lage , Mr. Chavez said his ailing friend , Cuban leader Fidel Castro , is recovering following intestinal surgery last year and has been up and walking around .
The Venezuelan president showed a letter that Mr. Chavez said was signed by Mr. Castro .
Last week , Mr. Chavez said Mr. Castro was in a battle for his life .
The Cuban government treats Mr. Castro 's health as a state secret .
Mr. Castro has not been seen in public since late July when he underwent surgery .
At the time , he temporarily handed power to his younger brother , Defense Minister Raul Castro .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his government will amend a controversial new intelligence law that human rights groups say could silence his critics .
Mr. Chavez told supporters Saturday that his government will soon correct what he called " mistakes " in the law .
The new law replaces Venezuela 's two main intelligence services with new agencies overseen by Mr. Chavez .
It requires Venezuelans to act as informants to secret police and community monitoring groups loyal to the president .
Anyone who refuses to provide information faces two to six years in prison .
Human rights advocates and legal scholars have condemned the measure , saying it will force people to report on their neighbors to avoid prison terms .
Mr. Chavez says the law is intended to protect national security and combat U.S. interference .
The head of the Arab League has stressed the Arab world 's ties with Iraq 's Kurds during a visit to the country 's autonomous Kurdish region .
Amr Moussa addressed the Kurdish parliament Sunday , telling lawmakers that Kurds are an important part of Iraq and the entire Middle East .
Mr. Moussa is in Iraq for his first visit since the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003 .
He has proposed holding a conference to help reconcile Iraq 's Sunni Arab , Shi'ite and Kurdish communities .
Meanwhile , insurgents killed at least 11 people in attacks across Iraq Sunday .
In the deadliest attack , a roadside bomb killed a police officer and his four children in Tikrit .
And the U.S. military says soldiers killed two suspected members of al-Qaida in Iraq and detained 22 others during raids in Mosul and Ramadi .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , who is in Guatemala , has announced Washington will release $ 3.2 million in military aid to the Central American country .
Mr. Rumsfeld made the announcement following a meeting Thursday , with President Oscar Berger .
The money is intended for various uses , including assisting in training and modernizing Guatemala 's armed forces .
Meanwhile , Venezuela 's vice president Jose Vicente Rangel has rebuffed comments made by Mr. Rumsfeld in Brazil Wednesday .
The secretary said that he does not understand why Venezuela needed to purchase 100,000 AK-47s .
Mr. Rumsfeld said they could pose a threat in the region .
The vice president says the U.S. defense secretary 's criticisms violate Venezuela 's sovereignty and are part of what he called a " systematic " U.S. campaign against President Hugo Chavez 's government .
Russia has handed Poland thousands of new documents on the investigation into the plane crash that killed Polish President Lech Kaczynski in April .
Russian Deputy Prosecutor General Alexander Zvyagintsev says the documents include witness interviews , photographs and other data from the crash in western Russia .
The documents were given Thursday to a Polish delegation led by chief military prosecutor Krzysztof Parulski .
Earlier this month , Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk complained about what he called Russian delays in turning over the evidence , which is crucial to a parallel Polish probe .
The April 10 crash killed President Kaczynski , his wife and 94 others outside the Russian city of Smolensk .
Officials say poor visibility was a major factor in the crash .
But they are also seeking to learn whether President Kaczynski or others pressured the pilots to attempt a landing despite heavy fog .
Spain has announced its Davis Cup tennis team that will host the United States in the final next month in Seville .
The team members are Juan Carlos Ferrero , Carlos Moya , Rafael Nadal and Tommy Robredo , the same players Spain used to beat the Netherlands in the quarterfinal and France in the semifinal .
Moya is the highest ranked player on the team at number five .
Robredo is next at 13th .
The United States announced its team for the final last month , and it will be headed by world number two Andy Roddick .
The Davis Cup final is set for December 3-5 .
The United States has won the cup a record 31 times but this is the first final since 1997 for the Americans , who last took the title in 1995 .
Spain won the Davis Cup in 2000 .
Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli airstrike has killed two Palestinian militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
The Israeli military has confirmed the attack , saying its helicopter targeted two men who were firing rockets across the border into Israeli territory .
The Islamic Jihad militant group claimed responsibility .
The airstrike was launched after rockets fired from northern Gaza exploded in the Israeli town of Sderot .
One Israeli was wounded .
Earlier Sunday , Israeli soldiers shot and killed two Hamas gunmen in northern Gaza .
The Israeli army confirmed that its troops shot two Palestinians who approached the border fence .
Israeli troops often shoot at Palestinians who approach the fence in an effort to prevent infiltrations by militants .
Israel also conducts raids into Gaza to stop militants from launching rockets into Israel .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for a roadside bombing in Afghanistan that killed the son of the new Dutch military commander .
Lieutenant Dennis van Uhm was one of two soldiers killed in the attack Friday .
His father , General Peter van Uhm , took command of the Dutch military on Thursday .
The Associated Press quotes a Taliban spokesman as saying van Uhm was specifically targeted because he was a high-profile soldier .
The Dutch government rejects the claim , saying there is no indication that van Uhm was personally targeted .
The roadside bombing took place north of the Dutch military base in the southern province of Uruzgan .
Also today , three Afghan civilians died in a roadside blast in Logar province , south of the capital , Kabul .
The U.S. State Department says it is concerned by the continued repression of academic freedom in Iran .
A U.S. spokesman says that in recent months , dozens of Iranian students have been detained , professors have been replaced , and freedom of expression has been severely curtailed on university campuses in Iran .
A statement released Friday says the families of the detained men and women have not been allowed to communicate with their loved ones .
It calls on the Iranian government to release the detainees and to guarantee fundamental freedoms for all citizens .
The State Department says the abuses have taken place since September , when Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in a speech in New York that universities should be places where the freedoms of expression and conscience flourish .
Russia 's embattled oil giant Yukos says a Moscow court has frozen the company 's stake in the Sibneft oil firm .
The business daily Vedomosti says the action could pave the way for the 34.5 percent stake to be seized if authorities prove it was acquired with illegal funds .
Yukos was to merge with Sibneft , but that deal was called off following the arrest last year of then-Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky .
Mr. Khodorkovsky has remained in prison and is currently on trial for tax evasion and fraud .
Meanwhile , Yukos is struggling to pay billions of dollars in back taxes .
Critics say the extensive probe is politically motivated because Mr. Khodorkovsky was a supporter of the political opposition .
The Kremlin insists the actions are part of a crackdown on corruption .
Pakistan says it will consider extraditing Taleban spokesman Abdul Latif Hakimi to Afghanistan if the Afghan government makes a formal request .
Pakistani officials say Mr. Hakimi was detained with five other suspected Taleban members in a raid this week on a house on the outskirts of Quetta , capital of Pakistan 's Baluchistan province bordering Afghanistan .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai told France 's LCI television Wednesday his country would seek the extradition of Mr. Hakimi , saying he is responsible for many atrocities in Afghanistan .
A Pakistani foreign ministry spokeswoman said the ministry has seen the reports , but has not formally received a request from Afghanistan for the extradition of Mr. Hakimi .
Pakistani intelligence officials say they have been questioning Mr. Hakimi about his links with senior Taleban leaders , the organization and structure of the Taleban , and to determine how he was operating in Pakistan .
Cuba and Brazil have remembered Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat with praise and have restated their support for his dream of a Palestinian state .
Cuban President Fidel Castro Thursday declared three days of official mourning for Mr. Arafat , saying the pain of the Palestinian leader 's loss was Cuba 's pain .
In a commentary , Cuba 's Communist Party newspaper , Granma , called Mr. Arafat one of the " firmest , most prestigious and tireless fighters for the Arab cause . "
It called his life a struggle for liberation , the defense of his people 's rights , and a sovereign and independent Palestine .
In Brazil , President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva called Mr. Arafat a historic leader and sent his condolences .
He called for peace in the Middle East and a free and sovereign Palestinian state .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte met with Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf at the leader 's official residence in Islamabad Thursday .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry said the men discussed bilateral relations , counter-terrorism and regional issues .
The ministry said General Musharraf told Negroponte that the U.S. , particularly the media , needed to better understand Pakistan 's anti-terrorism efforts .
During this two-day trip to Pakistan , Negroponte has praised Mr. Musharraf 's government as a key ally in the fight against terrorism .
Also Thursday , the U.S. diplomat met with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz .
Details of their talks are not yet available .
Negroponte arrived in Pakistan on Wednesday .
He is the former director of national intelligence , the head of all U.S. intelligence agencies .
He also served as the U.S. ambassador to Iraq in 2004 and 2005 .
The environmental group Worldwide Fund for Nature is warning that illegal fishing is driving the bluefin tuna in the Mediterranean and East Atlantic to extinction .
The WWF says in a new report that annual fishing quotas for the bluefin are exceeded by more than 40 percent .
It calls the European Union , Libyan , and Turkish fishing fleets the biggest offenders .
The report says some unreported bluefin catches are quickly processed at sea before being shipped to Japan , where the fish is one of the most popular portions of sushi dinners .
The WWF is urging European officials to call for an immediate halt to Atlantic bluefin fishing to give the species time to recover .
It says it will call for a consumer boycott in the United States and Japan if no action is taken .
Americans Andy Roddick and James Blake , along with Jarkko Nieminen of Finland have won warm-up events for the Australian Open - the first Grand Slam tennis event of the year .
Roddick beat German Tommy Haas in straight sets ( 6-3 , 7-6 ) Saturday at an exhibition tournament in Melbourne , which will host the Australian Open starting Monday .
Eighth seed Blake needed three sets to get by unseeded Russian Igor Andreev ( 6-2 , 3-6 , 7-6 ) in the finals of the Sydney International tournament .
Seventh seed Nieminen broke a six-year title drought when he beat fifth seed Mario Ancic of Croatia in straight sets ( 6-2 , 6-2 ) at the Heineken Open in Auckland , New Zealand .
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami has marked the 26th anniversary of the Islamic revolution with a stern warning that any invaders will face what he calls a " burning hell . "
Addressing tens of thousands of Iranians Thursday in central Tehran , Mr. Khatami said the Islamic republic does not seek " war , violence or confrontation . "
Iran is facing mounting international pressure over its nuclear program , which the United States alleges is aimed at developing nuclear weapons .
President Bush says he has not ruled out the use of military force , if negotiations fail to end the threat .
Today , for a second time in two days , Mr. Khatami dismissed Mr. Bush 's comments as part of a psychological war .
Britain , France and Germany are engaged in ongoing talks with Iran aimed at persuading Tehran to end its nuclear enrichment program .
Negotiators in Geneva have reported little progress in the talks .
President Bush has called on the U.S. Congress to pass a defense spending bill before it goes on recess next month .
Mr. Bush made the comment Thursday at the annual meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council ( ALEC ) .
The organization is made up of state lawmakers who draft " model legislation . "
During his speech , the president said Congress has been " dragging its feet " in getting 12 spending bills to him , including the defense bill .
On the economy , Mr. Bush stressed the need to keep taxes low , which he said has yielded a strong economy .
On education , the president said Congress needs to reauthorize his " No Child Left Behind " legislation in order to close what he called an " achievement gap " in America .
Mr. Bush concluded his speech by speaking of securing the United States from terrorists .
A U.S.-based rights group says Chinese authorities arrested two elderly Roman Catholic priests in the days before the death of Pope John Paul .
The Cardinal Kung Foundation , which supports the underground Catholic Church in China , said in a press release Sunday that authorities detained Bishop Yao Liang last Thursday .
The foundation said that before his arrest , Bishop Yao , who is in his eighties , had been under mounting pressure from authorities to sever ties with the pope and join China 's official Catholic Church .
The statement said that on Friday , Father Wang Jinling , also in his eighties , was arrested too .
The foundation said it does not know why he was detained or where he is being kept .
A published report in Britain says authorities believe they foiled a terrorist plot to carry out a nerve gas attack on parliament .
The Sunday Times says an al-Qaida cell in Britain carried out extensive research last year and videotaped reconnaissance in preparation for an attack on parliament and London 's subway system .
The newspaper says and internal police security document shows the alleged terrorist plot involved the use of deadly sarin gas and chemical " dirty bombs . "
British intelligence officials are reported to have used an al-Qaida informant to crack coded e-mail correspondence found in computers seized from terror suspects in Britain and Pakistan .
The Sunday Times says deciphering the code also helped authorities uncover several terrorist plots .
Police have not commented on the newspaper report .
Officials in Afghanistan say the commander of a pro-government militia force has been killed by a roadside bomb in an attack blamed on Taleban insurgents .
Officials say the commander was killed Friday , when his car was hit by the blast in southern Helmand province .
Reuters news agency identifies the victim as Shadi Khan -- the former chief of Deshu district police .
Hours earlier , a government official was killed in an ambush in neighboring Zabul province .
Violence has spiraled in recent weeks after a winter lull in fighting , with repeated attacks on Afghan security forces and U.S.-led coalition troops .
Taleban fighters have been waging an insurgency since U.S.-led forces ousted the hard-line Afghan government in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
Afghan military officials say a suspected bomb has exploded among fuel tankers outside the main base for the U.S.-led coalition force in southern Afghanistan .
The officials say two fuel tankers exploded outside the base near Kandahar city early Friday , setting fire to eight others .
It was not immediately clear if there were any casualties .
The blast came amid a major surge in violence by Taleban-led rebels that has left more than 1,400 dead in the past six months and raised concern for Afghanistan 's fragile democracy .
Violence has risen sharply in and around Kandahar , a former Taleban stronghold , with four suicide bombings in recent weeks and five medical aid workers killed Wednesday as they were returning to the city after treating people at a nearby refugee camp .
Founded in 963 , Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815 and an independent state under the Netherlands .
It lost more than half of its territory to Belgium in 1839 but gained a larger measure of autonomy .
Full independence was attained in 1867 .
Overrun by Germany in both world wars , it ended its neutrality in 1948 when it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO the following year .
In 1957 , Luxembourg became one of the six founding countries of the European Economic Community ( later the European Union ) , and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area .
Japan says it will give Afghanistan $ 110 million in aid to help with border security , literacy and the plight of refugees in the war-torn country .
Japan announced its pledge Tuesday at the beginning of a two-day international conference in Tokyo on Afghan reconstruction aid .
Representatives from 24 countries and international organizations are attending the meeting , which will also focus on combating narcotics and improving security in Afghanistan .
Speaking Tuesday in Tokyo , Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta thanked the international community for its help and asked for its continued support .
Japan provides funds for Afghanistan 's rebuilding efforts .
Last month , Tokyo resumed a naval refueling mission in support of U.S.-led coalition efforts .
Afghanistan 's foreign minister met with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda in Tokyo on Monday ahead of the two-day meeting .
During that gathering , Mr. Fukuda said Japan would continue to support Afghanistan 's reconstruction and security .
Chad 's government is extending emergency measures by six months in an effort to quell ethnic conflicts in the country 's east .
Prime Minister Pascal Yoadimnadji told lawmakers that more time is needed to restore peace and reconciliation .
He also accused the government in neighboring Sudan of fueling the conflict .
Sudan denies the claim .
Chad first declared a state of emergency last week , because of fighting between ethnic Arab and ethnic African communities .
Officials say 400 people have died in recent attacks , and thousands of others have fled their homes .
United Nations officials say Chadian villagers described being attacked by Arab nomads from Chad and western Sudan .
U.N. officials and aid workers say they fear the conflict in Sudan 's Darfur region between rebels and pro-government forces is spreading to Chad .
The U.S. Justice Department will seek to dismiss at least 180 cases brought by detainees held at the U.S. military 's detention center at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The prisoners ' lawsuits challenge the legality of their confinement at the prison .
Justice Department officials notified judges presiding over the cases at the U.S. District Court in Washington that official motions to dismiss the lawsuits will be filed .
Legislation signed by President Bush last week curbs U.S. civilian courts ' abilities to hear detainees ' cases .
About 500 prisoners are held at Guantanamo , most of them captured in Afghanistan on suspicion of ties to the Taleban or al-Qaida .
The United Nations Security Council has expressed concern that the Central African Republic could be destabilized by continuing violence in Darfur , Sudan and escalating tensions between Sudan and Chad .
The CAR shares its northern border with Sudan to the east and Chad to the west .
Its northern region has been beset by skirmishes between government forces and rebels .
At least 33 people were killed in clashes among the groups in June .
In a report issued last week , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan warned that the area could attract more armed groups , mercenaries and rebels trying to destabilize governments in the region .
The U.N. report also said humanitarian conditions in the country are deteriorating while human rights violations are rising .
A man described as an Israeli army deserter shot and killed four people near a northern Israeli-Arab town , but was then killed by a huge mob of angry townspeople .
Israeli media quote witnesses as saying the mob killing came shortly after the Israeli opened fire aboard a bus Thursday afternoon near the Israeli-Arab town of Shfaram .
Witnesses say two girls and the bus driver were among the dead .
At least 12 others were wounded before locals stormed the bus and killed the gunman .
He was identified as a religious deserter from the army who refused to take part in the upcoming Israeli pullout of the Gaza Strip .
Israeli news reports say the shooter was a member of the outlawed extremist Kach party .
The U.S. nominee to head the World Bank has hailed what he calls a " new generation " of African leaders , and has promised to build stronger partnerships with African countries .
As he wrapped up a four-day tour of the continent in South Africa , Robert Zoellick said African leaders are taking responsibility for their countries in dealing with issues including energy , employment , investment and infrastructure .
Zoellick said if he is appointed president of the World Bank , he will focus on stronger partnerships with African countries to help with their individual strategies for development and growth .
Zoellick met with African leaders in Ghana , Ethiopia and South Africa on this week 's tour .
He is scheduled to visit Europe , Mexico and Brazil before returning to the United States .
Zoellick is expected to be confirmed as World Bank president next month .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held separate talks in Cairo Sunday with Israeli and Palestinian leaders , as well as the US Middle East peace envoy .
Sunday 's meetings focused on ways to encourage the two sides to return to direct negotiations .
The Associated Press quotes Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit as saying the basis to move from indirect to direct talks is still " lacking . "
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has said he wo n't negotiate directly with Israel until there is progress on issues including borders , security and Israeli settlement construction .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he wants to move to direct talks .
US envoy George Mitchell has been in the region for indirect talks with both Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas .
Supporters of Pakistan 's main religion-based parties have marched in the capital , Islamabad , to protest a nationwide crackdown on suspected Islamic militants .
More than 1,000 demonstrators marched in Islamabad Friday chanting religious and anti-American slogans and demanding the release of those detained .
Organizers say they object to raids on religious schools and mosques in a crackdown they say is an effort to appease the United States and the West .
More than 300 people have been detained so far across Pakistan since the July seventh London bombings carried out by British Muslims of Pakistani origin who had visited the country before the attacks .
In a nationwide address Thursday , Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf sought the support of Pakistanis in the fight against extremism and terrorism .
U.S. experts say sediment left by receding floodwaters in New Orleans is contaminated and could pose health risks to returning residents .
The Environmental Protection Agency said Friday that recent test samples from storm debris and soil revealed high levels of bacteria and fuel oil .
Officials warned people to avoid contact with the contaminated materials .
U.S. experts had previously reported high levels of bacteria in the floodwaters of New Orleans .
As sediment dries , they plan to conduct air sampling and assess other exposure risks .
Oil spills have been reported in New Orleans and many parts of Louisiana 's southeastern coast .
The U.S. Coast Guard has counted more than 40 spills from refineries , storage depots and other facilities .
The spills range in size from several hundred liters to 15 million liters .
Iraqi political leaders are continuing efforts to win support from Sunni Arabs for a new constitution , before Saturday 's national referendum on the draft .
Iraq 's majority Shi'ites and Kurds support the draft , but minority Sunni Arabs oppose it , fearing that they will be sidelined under the proposed federal system .
In another development , Iraq 's anti-corruption commission says arrest warrants have been issued for some two dozen officials from the previous interim government of Prime Minister Iyad Allawi .
The commission says the former senior officials , including former defense minister Hazem al-Shaalan , are suspected of embezzling more than $ 1 billion from military procurement funds .
Many of the accused are said to have left Iraq since the Allawi cabinet was replaced by an elected transitional government in April .
An Iraqi member of al-Qaida has confessed to killing a Jordanian taxi driver and kidnapping two employees of Morocco 's embassy in Baghdad .
The confession of Ziyad Khalaf Karbouli was broadcast Tuesday on Jordanian state TV .
Jordanian TV says Karbouli worked as a customs agent on the Iraqi side of the border with Jordan .
In his confession , Karbouli described how he shot the Jordanian driver Khaled Desouki twice in the head .
Karbouli says he kidnapped the two Moroccans last October as they returned to Iraq after visiting Amman .
Jordanian TV credited the country 's intelligence service and its special forces with the capture without releasing details .
It is unclear whether the kidnapped Moroccans are still alive .
South Korean diplomats held face-to-face talks Friday with Taleban militants who have been holding 21 South Korean hostages for three weeks .
Taleban spokesman Yousef Ahmadi says two of its negotiators attended the talks in eastern Ghazni City .
Earlier , the Afghan government guaranteed safe passage for the Taleban representatives .
Negotiations had earlier been stalled over where to hold the meeting .
The talks are seen as one of the last diplomatic efforts to secure the release of the hostages .
A total of 23 South Koreans were abducted by Taleban militants on July 19 while traveling through Ghazni province .
The kidnappers have already executed two male hostages .
The captors have repeatedly threatened to kill more of the South Koreans unless the Afghan government and U.S. military release Taleban prisoners .
The Afghan government has refused their demands .
The British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline says it could have a bird flu vaccine ready for mass production as early as next year .
In a statement issued Wednesday , the company reported a breakthrough in recent trials of the vaccine , which it says is effective against the deadly H5N1 strain .
GlaxoSmithKline said it could be ready to submit the vaccine to regulators by the end of this year .
The company said the key to its vaccine is the low concentration of active ingredient .
This would allow the vaccine to be produced on a mass scale , allowing governments to stock up on the vaccine to be used in the event of a pandemic .
Several other companies are working to develop bird flu vaccines .
In the latest bird flu outbreak , health officials in Thailand reported Wednesday that a teenage boy who died earlier this week was infected with the deadly H5N1 variety of the disease .
Police in Istanbul have arrested 63 people taking part in a demonstration ahead of International Women 's Day .
A crowd of 150 people had gathered in front of the mayor 's office in an early observance of the March 8 celebration .
Police ordered them to disperse , saying their rally was illegal .
The protesters refused , and continued to chant slogans .
Television footage showed police using pepper spray and truncheons to break up the demonstration .
Many in the crowd dispersed , fleeing into side streets .
Authorities say demonstrators broke the windows of a police vehicle in the process .
Police also broke up a second demonstration of about 250 people in the Beyazit district .
There were no reports of arrest .
Russia conquered the territory of present-day Uzbekistan in the late 19th century .
Stiff resistance to the Red Army after the Bolshevik Revolution was eventually suppressed and a socialist republic established in 1924 .
During the Soviet era , intensive production of " white gold " ( cotton ) and grain led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies , which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain rivers half dry .
Independent since 1991 , the country seeks to gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its mineral and petroleum reserves .
Current concerns include terrorism by Islamic militants , economic stagnation , and the curtailment of human rights and democratization .
Multiple waves of colonizers , each speaking a distinct language , migrated to the New Hebrides in the millennia preceding European exploration in the 18th century .
This settlement pattern accounts for the complex linguistic diversity found on the archipelago to this day .
The British and French , who settled the New Hebrides in the 19th century , agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium , which administered the islands until independence in 1980 , when the new name of Vanuatu was adopted .
Spanish police have arrested four Moroccans suspected of having direct links to last year 's Madrid commuter train bombings that killed 191 people .
An Interior Ministry statement says police detained the four Tuesday in a Madrid suburb .
It says the four , all members of the same family , are believed to have ties to Morocco 's Islamic Combat Group , an al-Qaida-linked movement blamed for bombing attacks in November 2003 , in Casablanca , Morocco , that killed 45 people .
Police also say they issued an international arrest warrant for another Moroccan , Youssef Belhadj , who currently lives in Belgium .
Spanish authorities say they believe the suspect appeared on a videotape claiming that al-Qaida had carried out the attacks on four Madrid commuter trains , which also wounded about 1,900 people .
Afghan and NATO forces have killed 20 Taleban militants during fighting in southern Afghanistan .
A local police chief says the clash occurred late Wednesday in the Shah Wali Kot district of Kandahar province .
The police chief says three of the 20 Taleban fighters ' bodies were found .
Authorities say there were no injuries among Afghan or NATO forces .
Militant attacks have soared in recent months in Afghanistan .
More than 3,000 people have been killed this year as Afghan , NATO and U.S. forces battle Taleban fighters .
At least six Iraqis have been killed in clashes in the cities of Samarra and Ramadi , as pre-election violence continues virtually unabated .
Hospital officials say clashes near a U.S. military base west of Baghdad in Ramadi Wednesday killed two people .
And Iraqi police say gunmen attacked a police station in Samarra , north of the capital , killing at least four people .
Meanwhile , in neighboring Kuwait , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld spoke to American troops at Camp Buehring preparing to go to Iraq .
Soldiers told Mr. Rumsfeld they are concerned about the lack of adequate armor on some vehicles and about their long deployments .
Mr. Rumsfeld said production of armored metal has been stepped up , but he said " you go to war with the army you have . "
The number of American combat deaths in Iraq reached 1,000 on Tuesday
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and his Christian Democratic Union challenger , Angela Merkel , are so close together in the latest pre-election polls that they have both vowed to break with tradition and campaign straight through the end of voting on Sunday evening .
Two polls released on Friday indicate a conservative coalition led by Ms. Merkel has a slim majority over a center-left coalition led by Mr. Schroeder .
However , 25 percent of those polled say they are still undecided , which makes the race too close to call .
The conservatives started out the campaign with a large lead , one that has decreased as Mr. Schroeder 's attacks on Ms. Merkel 's economic plan have hit home .
Ms. Merkel has assailed the high unemployment rate in Germany under Mr. Schroeder 's leadership , while Mr. Schroeder says Ms. Merkel 's tax proposals will unravel the country 's social fabric .
Police in Israel have charged an Iranian-born Israeli with passing defense information to Iran .
Media reports say the man is believed to have had contact with Iranian intelligence agents in Istanbul and given them the names of people serving in the Israeli security and intelligence services .
Police officials say the suspect was arrested earlier this month and formally charged in Tel Aviv Sunday .
The suspect 's identity has not been released .
Several civilians - including children - have died in separate violent incidents in Afghanistan .
In southern Helmand province , a suicide bomber Friday detonated explosives near a military compound in Sangin town , killing two children .
Also Friday , the U.S. military said that several other civilians were killed during a battle between Taleban insurgents and Afghan troops backed by U.S.-led coalition forces in the southeast .
The joint force came under attack during a raid on compounds suspected of housing militants in Paktika province .
The U.S. military says that several Taleban fighters also died .
Afghan leaders have repeatedly called on the nearly 50,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan to avoid causing civilian deaths .
The U.S.-led coalition and NATO-led forces have blamed the Taleban for launching attacks from within civilian compounds and from populated areas .
Afghanistan is going through its worst period of violence since a U.S.-led invasion in 2001 ousted the Taleban government .
The Philippine Islands became a Spanish colony during the 16th century ; they were ceded to the US in 1898 following the Spanish-American War .
In 1935 the Philippines became a self-governing commonwealth .
Manuel QUEZON was elected president and was tasked with preparing the country for independence after a 10-year transition .
In 1942 the islands fell under Japanese occupation during World War II , and US forces and Filipinos fought together during 1944 - 45 to regain control .
On 4 July 1946 the Republic of the Philippines attained its independence .
A 20-year rule by Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986 , when a " people power " movement in Manila ( " EDSA 1 " ) forced him into exile and installed Corazon AQUINO as president .
Her presidency was hampered by several coup attempts that prevented a return to full political stability and economic development .
Fidel RAMOS was elected president in 1992 .
His administration was marked by increased stability and by progress on economic reforms .
In 1992 , the US closed its last military bases on the islands .
Joseph ESTRADA was elected president in 1998 .
He was succeeded by his vice-president , Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO , in January 2001 after ESTRADA 's stormy impeachment trial on corruption charges broke down and another " people power " movement ( " EDSA 2 " ) demanded his resignation .
MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was elected to a six-year term as president in May 2004 .
Her presidency was marred by several corruption allegations but the Philippine economy was one of the few to avoid contraction following the 2008 global financial crisis , expanding each year of her administration .
Benigno AQUINO III was elected to a six-year term as president in May 2010 .
The Philippine Government faces threats from several groups on the US Government 's Foreign Terrorist Organization list .
Manila has waged a decades-long struggle against ethnic Moro insurgencies in the southern Philippines , which has led to a peace accord with the Moro National Liberation Front and on-again / off-again peace talks with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front .
The decades-long Maoist-inspired New People 's Army insurgency also operates through much of the country .
The U.S. space shuttle Endeavouris scheduled to return to Earth Friday , following a two-week mission to service the International Space Station .
Endeavourundocked from the orbiting outpost Tuesday , beginning the long journey home that will end with a landing at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida .
Endeavour 's mission at the space station included five spacewalks , during which shuttle astronauts installed an external platform on the station 's Japanese lab , known as Kibo , or " hope . "
The platform will allow scientists to conduct experiments in the vacuum of space .
The crew also conducted maintenance work on the station .
While the shuttle was docked at the station , the outpost 's population grew to 13 - the highest number in its history .
The shuttle will be bringing back Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata , who has been on the space station since March .
U.S. astronaut Timothy Kopra is taking his place .
Officials in Ecuador say Venezuela is to help them build a $ 5 billion oil refinery that will become operational in 2012 .
Oil Minister Galo Chiriboga said Thursday the refinery will initially process Ecuadorean crude , but when supplies are depleted , Venezuelan crude will be used .
The facility will have the capacity to refine 300,000 barrels of oil daily .
The minister says a logistics study for the project should be concluded by June and that it is a way of promoting Latin American investment in refineries .
Ecuador is capable of producing more than 500,000 barrels of crude oil a day , but has no refining facilities and must import gasoline .
Ecuador is the fifth largest oil producer in South America .
The country rejoined the OPEC cartel last month after a 15-year break Venezuela is the only other Latin American country in OPEC .
Business jumped 16 percent in the first half of the year for Dubai World 's global port operations .
The firm is the fourth-largest of its kind in the world and saw gains at ports it operates in Asia , Australia , and parts of Europe .
The company handled the equivalent of 23.7 million standard containers between January and June .
That is a significant gain from the same period a year ago when it moved a bit more than 20 million containers .
The company welcomes the growth , which comes after a steep decline in global trade during the economic crisis .
But managers say it is unclear if the growth will continue for the rest of the year .
Hundreds of angry villagers in Indian-controlled Kashmir have taken to the streets when security forces killed two civilians after mistaking them for separatist militants .
The Indian army says it regrets Saturday 's incident in Dragmulla village north of Srinagar .
It ordered an investigation of the shootings .
Another civilian was killed during a clash between Indian troops and militants in the same district .
Meanwhile , in Srinagar , shops , schools and offices were closed during a general strike to protest the death of a civilian in the city earlier this week .
Local authorities say police shot dead a college student as he was about to hurl a grenade at them , but residents say he had no militant connections .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has named Pakistani diplomat Ashraf Qazi as his new special representative to Sudan .
Mr. Ban made the announcement Tuesday at a news conference with the south Sudan President Salva Kiir in Juba , the southern Sudanese capital .
Qazi was chosen to replace Jan Pronk , who was expelled last year after criticizing Sudanese army actions in war-torn Darfur .
The secretary-general praised Qazi for his wide and extensive diplomatic skill .
Qazi currently serves as the U.N. envoy to Iraq .
Mr. Ban 's stop in Juba is part of a six-day trip in which he will also visit Libya and Chad .
More than four years of fighting between rebels , the government and militia groups has killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced more than two million others .
An Iraqi Kurd has told the court trying Saddam Hussein that in 1988 Iraqi troops shot dead dozens of Kurdish prisoners and then dumped them into a mass grave .
The witness said he was among the prisoners , but he escaped by pretending he was dead and later climbed out of the grave in the desert of western Iraq .
Following Tuesday 's testimony from five Kurdish witnesses , the judge adjourned proceedings until November 7 .
The trial of the former Iraqi leader and six co-defendants involves the so-called Anfal campaign .
Prosecutors say Saddam 's forces killed 180,000 Kurdish civilians in 1988 .
A verdict in Saddam 's first trial for the killing of Shi'ites is expected November 5 .
He faces the death penalty for allegedly ordering the deaths of 148 Shi'ite villagers .
President Bush says the United States and Pakistan are allies in fighting terrorism and laying the foundation of lasting peace in the world .
At a banquet in Islamabad in his honor , Mr. Bush said once peace is won , the two partners will share it together .
He said Pakistan should take further steps in advancing democracy , education and social development .
President Musharraf said Pakistan is firmly on the path of economic growth and seeks US help in enhancing it .
He said Pakistan lies at the crossroads of South , West and Central Asia and has the potential of becoming the hub of economic activity .
He said the two countries share the common values of discouraging hate and extremism and promoting inter-faith harmony .
General Musharraf also said the ongoing peace process with India is conducive to finding a solution of the decades-old Kashmir problem .
Palestinian officials say two Palestinians have been killed in an accidental explosion in a West Bank refugee camp .
The officials say the accident happened early Monday in the Askar refugee camp in the city of Nablus .
They say an old Israeli army shell exploded when a man and his son collecting scrap metal tried to cut through it with a blowtorch , killing the two Palestinians .
An opinion poll indicates an overwhelming number of Australians support tough anti-terrorism measures proposed after the London bombings .
The survey of more than 1,400 Australians last week by the Sydney Morning Herald shows three-quarters of respondents support laws that would allow the detention and electronic tagging of terror suspects .
But 60 percent of those surveyed said they were opposed to giving police " shoot to kill " authority when pursuing terrorism suspects .
The new counter-terrorism laws will allow suspects to be electronically watched or held in custody for up to 14 days without charge .
They will also create tighter checks on citizenship applicants and jail terms for inciting violence .
Rights organizations have criticized the measures , saying they threaten civil liberties and violate international law .
Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos says the divided island can not afford another failed reunification attempt Mr. Papadopoulos told the United Nations General Assembly Sunday that revived talks need thorough preparation and what he calls an honest assessment of whether success is possible .
He said Turkey must recognize that the only settlement can be a single state with no Turkish military presence in the north .
Cyprus has been split since 1974 between an internationally-recognized Greek Cypriot south and a Turkish Cypriot north , which only Turkey recognizes .
A plan proposed by U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan would reunify the island as a loose federation .
Turkish Cypriots voted for the plan in a referendum last year while Greek Cypriots rejected it .
A U.S. court has found a former CIA contractor guilty of assaulting an Afghan detainee , who later died of his injuries .
The federal jury in North Carolina issued the guilty verdict Thursday on several assault charges against David Passaro for the 2003 incident .
He was not charged with murder .
Prosecutors had accused Passaro of using his feet , hands and a flashlight to beat Abdul Wali during interrogation sessions .
Wali died from his injuries two days later .
Wali was a suspect in rocket attacks on the U.S. military base in Afghanistan where Passaro was stationed .
Defense attorneys said Passaro was following guidelines approved by his superiors while working as a CIA interrogator .
He is the first U.S. civilian charged for abusing prisoners in Afghanistan since the start of the U.S.-led war in 2001 .
Medical experts with the U.N. World Health Organization are investigating an outbreak of an unknown illness with a high mortality rate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo .
WHO has issued a statement saying it is unclear exactly how many cases or deaths are involved .
But it says more than half the people affected are under the age of 10 .
The statement listed symptoms that include fever , headache , diarrhea or abdominal pain and vomiting .
An investigation team made up of experts from WHO and the Congolese government have arrived in the central part of the country where the outbreak began .
WHO says the cause of the illness is unknown , but the Congolese government has increased hygiene and sanitation efforts as a precaution .
U.S. officials say Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will visit Africa next week on a trip aimed at highlighting the Obama administration 's commitment to making Africa a priority in U.S. foreign policy .
The State Department says Clinton will begin her seven-nation trip August 5 , when she attends the U.S.-Sub Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum in Nairobi , Kenya .
The forum is designed to help increase trade between the U.S. and African countries .
During her visit to Kenya , she will also meet with the president of Somalia 's transitional government , Sheikh Sharif Amed .
Clinton will also visit South Africa , Angola , the Democratic Republic of Congo , Nigeria , Liberia and Cape Verde .
Clinton 's visit takes place less than a month after President Barack Obama visited Ghana .
The State Department says this is the earliest in any administration that both the president and secretary of state have traveled to Africa .
Japan says it plans to extend the country 's commitment to provide naval support to U.S. troops in Afghanistan .
Japan 's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda made the announcement Wednesday in Tokyo .
Japan 's maritime self defense forces were dispatched to the Indian Ocean in 2001 to provide fuel for coalition warships in the region .
The mission expires on November 1 , but Mr. Hosoda says Japan 's Parliament is expected to extend the mission for another year .
Another overseas deployment of Japanese self defense forces - to southern Iraq - is scheduled to end in December .
A decision on whether to keep troops there has not been made .
Critics say the deployment violates Japan 's pacifist constitution .
Japanese troops in Iraq can operate only in non-combat zones .
Colombia 's ambassador to the United States has resigned over the nomination of a disgraced former president as ambassador to France .
Andres Pastrana , himself a former president , stepped down Tuesday , saying he had little choice after President Alvaro Uribe appointed Ernesto Samper to the post .
The government later announced that Mr. Samper had turned down the post .
Mr. Samper 's four-year presidency , which began in 1994 , was overshadowed by allegations that his campaign accepted five-million dollars in contributions from the notorious Cali cocaine cartel .
He was later cleared by the Colombian legislature .
Colombia has received billions of dollars from the U.S. to help fight illegal drug trafficking .
Mr. Uribe has picked current Foreign Minister Carolina Barco to replace Mr. Pastrana as Bogata 's envoy to Washington .
Hundreds of Islamist students in Egypt have marched at three of the country 's universities to call for democratic reforms .
The demonstrators Sunday called on the government to ease restrictions on political activities at universities , and to allow free and fair student elections .
The protests took place on the campuses of Cairo , Ein Shams and Azhar universities .
Many of the protesters were supporters of the banned Muslim Brotherhood movement .
The White House says President Bush will attend the summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation ( APEC ) forum in November in Busan , South Korea .
A White House statement says Mr. Bush will discuss promoting free trade , boosting economic growth and strengthening regional security cooperation .
Mr. Bush is expected to meet with South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun on November 17 and hold bilateral meetings with other APEC leaders .
The 21-member APEC group includes Pacific nations who regularly meet to discuss trade , security and other issues .
A White House spokesman said the president will also make several side trips during his visit .
He is scheduled to travel to Beijing on November 19 .
Mr. Bush also plans to make his first visit to Mongolia on November 21 to meet with President Enkhbayar .
Scientists say Saturn 's largest moon , Titan , is an exotic world with Earth-like physical features , doused with rains of liquid methane .
In Paris Friday , European Space Agency officials said Titan has a complex network of narrow drainage channels merging into rivers and small oceans .
They say there is strong evidence liquid methane has carved up the surface , similar to the erosion that occurs by rainfall on Earth .
The team of scientists say the moon 's thick nitrogen and methane atmosphere is possibly undergoing chemical reactions similar to those that unfolded on Earth billions of years ago .
Space agency officials say they will be studying the data taken from the Huygens space probe .
The probe landed on the icy moon last week , after an eight-year journey aboard the Cassini spacecraft .
Iran has formally withdrawn its demand to exempt some equipment from an international deal freezing its controversial uranium enrichment efforts .
The withdrawal agreement came Sunday in a letter to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna .
Western diplomats say the new agreement appears to have averted a showdown with the IAEA over Iran 's demand to exempt about 20 nuclear centrifuges from a pact reached earlier with European governments .
Diplomats from Britain , France and Germany , who brokered the freeze , had threatened to drop opposition to possible U.N. sanctions if Iran reneged on the signed deal banning all uranium enrichment activities .
Under the original deal , Tehran was to have maintained the freeze while the IAEA investigates U.S. allegations that Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran has repeatedly denied the charges .
Pakistani officials say a suicide bombing at a funeral for a policeman killed earlier in the day has left at least 27 people dead in the country 's restive northwest .
Police say scores of others were wounded during the latest attack - which took place late Friday as hundreds of mourners gathered in the town of Mingora in the tourist region of Swat Valley .
The police officer died earlier in the day after a roadside bomb blew up his vehicle near North Waziristan 's restive tribal region .
At least two other policemen were killed in the explosion .
Pakistani security forces have been battling Taliban-linked militants in the region , but did not say who was behind Friday 's two attacks .
Iran 's intelligence minister says authorities have arrested more than 10 people this year on charges of spying on the country 's nuclear program .
The official IRNA news agency quoted Intelligence Minister Ali Yunesi as alleging that those detained since March were working for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and the Israeli spy agency , Mossad .
He said three of the detainees were staff members of Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization .
He did not reveal the identities of the detainees .
Last month , Iran agreed to suspend its uranium enrichment activities under a deal with European governments .
But on Tuesday , international diplomats said Tehran is still continuing uranium enrichment , exploiting a loophole in the deal .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly trying to build nuclear weapons .
Tehran denies the charge .
Indonesian diplomats in Iraq say two Indonesian journalists are missing .
Indonesian Embassy officials in Baghdad said Friday the journalists , who work for an Indonesian television station ( Metro TV , ) were heading to Baghdad in a rented car when they disappeared Tuesday in the region of Ramadi .
No other details were immediately available .
Ramadi , 100 kilometers west of Baghdad , has been a center of insurgent activity and frequent clashes between U.S. and Iraqi forces fighting militants .
In another development , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Thursday by small arms fire in the northern city of Mosul .
News of the latest violence comes a day after election officials announced that final election results had given the country 's main Shi'ite coalition a slim majority in the interim National Assembly .
Heavy snow and strong winds have been blamed in the deaths of at least six people across Japan .
Officials believe strong winds caused a high speed train to derail north of Tokyo , killing at least one person .
They say at least 16 others were injured and taken to the hospital after the accident .
Blizzards and some of the heaviest snowfall on record for December have killed at least five people since last week .
The snow also disrupted public transportation and left thousands without electricity .
Foreign ministers from 15 African nations are meeting to discuss proposals for strengthening the continent 's role in the U.N. Security Council .
African Union officials helped organize the talks in Swaziland aimed at finding agreement on a set of proposals to add members to the U.N. 's top decision-making body .
One plan under discussion would include six new permanent members without veto power , including two from Africa .
Egypt , Nigeria and South Africa have said they are interested in representing the continent at the Security Council .
Ministers at this week 's meeting are not expected to name candidates for possible new seats .
Last year , a U.N. panel called for studies on expanding the Security Council , which includes five permanent members and 10 seats elected by the U.N. General Assembly .
It can sound like musical instruments or , it can sound like nothing you have ever heard before .
An emerging musical form called ' beatboxing ' is n't exactly singing .
But the music is created only by using a human voice and mouth , lips , tongue , nose and throat .
London played host recently to the highlight in the beatboxing calendar : an international convention at the South Bank Arts Center .
The convention is an opportunity for beatboxers from around the world to meet in person and try out their skills .
Catherine Drew brings us this new form of music .
Pakistan says a series of explosions in the restive southwestern Baluchistan province has seriously wounded a soldier and damaged railway tracks and communications and power lines .
Officials say two bomb blasts early Thursday in Mastung and Dera Ghazi Khan , located south and west of the provincial capital , Quetta , damaged railway tracks , causing train delays but no injuries .
Another explosion destroyed a high voltage power line in Naushki area southwest of Quetta , disrupting electricity supplies throughout the area .
And , in a remote Kohlu district , a rocket struck the tower of a telephone exchange , cutting phone lines to thousands of customers .
Hours later , a soldier was seriously hurt in a land mine explosion while he was escorting a team of engineers to repair the tower .
A series of bomb blasts at the site of a controversial dam project in a remote part of Burma has destroyed cars and buildings and wounded one man .
Officials said the Saturday explosions took place in the early hours of the morning at four locations where the Myitsone Dam is under construction in the country 's northernmost Kachin State .
Authorities say one person sustained slight injuries in the attacks .
Environmental and rights activists have campaigned against the dam .
When built , the dam is expected to create a reservoir flooding an area the size of New York City , covering dozens of villages and holy sites and displacing thousands of local people .
The World Bank hopes to raise more than one billion dollars to fight bird flu at a global conference that opens in Beijing Tuesday .
The World Bank has said up to 1.4 billion dollars are needed to combat the deadly virus in developing countries .
A bank official , Jim Adams , says he expects most of the target will be met .
Delegates from more than 80 countries will attend the two-day event .
The money raised will help countries improve health services for flu victims and contain outbreaks among birds .
Meanwhile , medical tests in Indonesia show a 13-year-old girl has died of bird flu , and two other members of her family may also have been infected .
If the girl is confirmed to have died of the H5N1 strain of bird flu , Indonesia 's death toll from the virus would rise to 13 .
Rebel forces in Colombia killed 28 soldiers Tuesday in the deadliest assault on government troops in years .
The attack happened near the town of Vista Hermosa , south of the capital city of Bogota , near an area controlled by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC .
Military officials say the soldiers were guarding workers as they destroyed crops of coca , the plant used to make cocaine .
The 17,000 strong FARC , along with a smaller guerilla group known as the ELN , has been engaged in a deadly 40-year civil war to topple the government .
It funds its operations mainly through drug trafficking .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe , who is running for re-election in next May 's presidential vote , has stepped up military efforts against FARC forces in the region .
Health officials in Turkey say a third child of the same family has died of bird flu in the eastern Turkish city of Van .
Doctors say the 11-year-old girl , Hulya Kocyigit died Friday .
Her 14-year-old brother died Sunday , and her 15-year-old sister died Thursday .
Health officials say that some 25 people in Turkey - mostly children - are being treated for possible bird flu .
The World Health Organization is investigating the outbreak - the first one among humans outside east Asia .
A spokeswoman in Geneva says there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission , but said the development foreshadows a global pandemic .
Authorities in neighboring Azerbaijan are testing dead birds in the southern part of the country for signs of bird flu .
Meanwhile , Indonesia says it has budgeted $ 940 million to fight bird flu over the next two years .
There may be an economic slowdown in the United States now , but some areas of the country continue to boom .
One such place is the capital of the western state of Texas , Austin , which remains popular with high tech companies as well as artists , musicians and filmmakers .
But , as VOA 's Greg Flakus reports from Austin , some longtime residents are worried that the rapid growth threatens a quality of life they call " weird . "
Ruling that stripped many politicians of amnesty on past corruption cases Mr. Zardari and key leaders of his Pakistan People 's Party ( PPP ) met in Islamabad to discuss the impact on his government .
The Supreme Court on Wednesday threw out a decree that offered amnesty protection to more than 8,000 people , including Mr. Zardari and his top allies .
As president , Mr. Zardari is still immune from prosecution , but members of the opposition party are calling for his resignation .
Pakistan 's anti-corruption body , the National Accountability Bureau , has placed about 250 officials on a travel ban list aimed at preventing suspects from fleeing the country .
The list includes four Cabinet members , including two from the ruling party and two from the minor MQM party .
At least 52 politicians have been summoned to appear before corruption courts .
British police have charged three more suspects with conspiracy to commit murder in the alleged plot to blow up passenger jets heading to the United States .
Mohammed Yasar Gulzar , Nabeel Hussain , and Mohammed Shamin Uddin are scheduled to appear before a London judge Wednesday .
This brings the number of suspects charged so far in the alleged terror plot to 15 .
Five others are still in custody while five have been freed .
A number of suspects are also being held in Pakistan .
British authorities accuse them of planning to use liquid explosives to destroy as many as 10 airliners , killing thousands of people .
Police had been monitoring the suspects for months .
Authorities made the arrests more than two weeks ago , believing the suspects were about to carry out their deadly plans .
Iraqi officials say they have asked U.S. forces to release six of eight Iraqi female prisoners , but they say the move is not related to the demand of a militant group that kidnapped an American journalist .
The U.S. military has not said whether it would release the six prisoners .
Al Jazeera television aired a video Tuesday from militants holding American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped January 7 in Baghdad .
The abductors threatened to kill Carroll unless all female Iraqi prisoners in U.S. custody were released within 72 hours .
Wednesday , gunmen in Baghdad ambushed an Egyptian-owned telephone company Iraqna 's convoy , killing at least six security guards .
Officials said two African employees traveling in the convoy are missing and feared kidnapped .
Royal Dutch Shell says a fire has broken out at one of its oil wells in southern Nigeria .
Shell says firefighters are battling the blaze on a wellhead in the Cawthorne Channel , south of the city of Port Harcourt .
The company says it had to close a flow station , cutting production by almost 38,000 barrels a day .
A spokesman for the oil giant says the cause of the fire is unknown .
The blaze comes one day after a local militant group , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta threatened to renew attacks against oil installations in the region .
The group said the Nigerian military used a Shell airstrip to launch a helicopter attack .
The military said it attacked barges used by oil smugglers , while the militants said the attack targeted ethnic Ijaw communities .
Militant attacks forced Shell to close other flow stations last month .
French tennis great Mary Pierce has withdrawn from the ASB Classic women 's tennis tournament in New Zealand next week for undisclosed medical reasons .
Now ranked 29th in the world , Pierce is a former Australian Open and French Open champion .
She was to be seeded third at the Auckland tournament .
Her agent sent confirmation Thursday to tournament director Richard Palmer that Pierce had an injury on Thursday .
Despite her absence from the New Zealand event , it is not clear if Pierce will play at the Australian Open in Melbourne , where she won in 1995 .
In November , Pierce was suffering from a right shoulder injury , which forced her to pull out from the French Fed Cup team and a semifinal against Spain .
The Pentagon has confirmed that some military commanders in Iraq may have been made aware of possible cases of prisoner abuse throughout the country before mistreatment at the Abu Ghraib prison was uncovered .
A Pentagon spokesman Wednesday said he did not know which military commanders were given a confidential report citing alleged mistreatment of Iraqi detainees by a joint CIA-military team .
The Washington Post newspaper says the report was given to several generals and the top U.S. intelligence officer in Iraq in December 2003 , about one month before a different report uncovered abuse at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison .
The Post says the confidential report alleges the joint CIA-military team known as the TF-121 was physically abusing detainees and using a secret interrogation facility to hide its activities .
The Pentagon said the allegations were taken " very seriously . "
Dad 's pager went off , summoning him to the hospital , where he is an anesthetist .
As he raced toward the hospital , a patrol car sped up behind him -- lights flashing .
Dad hung his stethoscope out the window to signal that he was on an emergency call .
Within seconds , came the police officer 's hand in response , dangling a pair of handcuffs out the window .
A European Union naval force says Somali pirates have released a Thailand-flagged fishing vessel they had held since last October .
The EU anti-piracy mission ( EU NAVFOR ) says pirates Sunday released the Thai Union 3 from the port of Harardhere after the payment of a ransom .
The size and source of the payment was not disclosed .
The fishing vessel has a crew of 23 Russians , two Filipinos , and two men from Ghana .
The ship 's captain was wounded when pirates hijacked the boat October 29 in Indian Ocean , north of the Seychelles islands .
Somali pirates have made tens of millions of dollars hijacking ships for ransom over the past few years .
On Saturday , the EU force confirmed that pirates had hijacked a Norwegian chemical tanker with a 21-member Burmese crew .
The UBT Ocean was traveling from the United Arab Emirates to Tanzania when it was seized .
Monday Americans honor the life and legacy of the slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr.
President Bush is marking the annual King holiday with a speech in Washington .
The president began his day with a short trip to the U.S. National Archives to view the 1863 Emancipation Proclamation , which declared an end to slavery in the United States .
He said it was a fitting way to start his observance of Martin Luther King Day .
" Today we celebrate the life of an American who called Americans to account when we did n't live to our ideals , " said the president .
Mr. Bush will speak at length at a King ceremony at Washington 's Kennedy Center .
Similar programs are being held around the country highlighting community service and Reverend King 's non-violent campaign for equal rights .
Visiting Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is to sign a deal Wednesday , to sell Venezuela patrol boats and transport planes .
Officials in Caracas say the proposed deal is to include 10 C-295 transport planes , four coastal patrol corvettes , and four smaller patrol boats .
The Associated Press quotes Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez as saying the patrol boats in particular will help in the fight against drug trafficking .
On Tuesday , Mr. Zapatero , Mr. Chavez and leaders of Brazil and Colombia held a one-day summit in Puerto Ordaz , Venezuela to discuss trade , political alliances and terrorism .
International relief efforts are gearing up to provide emergency aid to the victims of Sunday 's disaster in Asia .
The United Nations says it has already dispatched a relief team and made an initial cash grant .
Among the other offers of help , the European Union on Sunday committed $ 4 million for what officials called the vital period immediately after the disaster .
Individual nations have also been responding with offers of immediate assistance .
Pope John Paul , speaking in Vatican City , urged members of the international community to mobilize assistance for victims .
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his entertainment but some soup made of pulse , which was poured out into a broad flat stone dish .
The soup fell out of the long bill of the Crane at every mouthful , and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement .
The Crane , in his turn , asked the Fox to sup with him , and set before her a flagon with a long narrow mouth , so that he could easily insert his neck and enjoy its contents at his leisure .
The Fox , unable even to taste it , met with a fitting requital , after the fashion of her own hospitality .
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe says it has extended its election mission in Ukraine to monitor the country 's upcoming vote .
The 55-member organization says it plans to have more than 1,000 observers in Ukraine for the December 26 election .
It says the mission , from the organization 's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights , will be the office 's largest ever .
The organization had more than 600 monitors in Ukraine during the November presidential balloting .
In the statement Thursday , the group said the media has what it calls a crucial role in giving voters access to impartial information .
It also said the election administration needs the full support of state authorities .
The organization says it will release preliminary findings the day after the election , and a final report about six weeks after the vote .
The European Union has approved Russia 's entry into the World Trade Organization , moving Moscow one step closer to membership in the trade body .
Russian Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina and EU Trade Commissioner Karel de Gucht signed an agreement on Tuesday resolving outstanding bilateral issues that had prevented EU approval of Russia 's entry bid .
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso called the signing a " milestone " in the process .
Russia , the largest economy outside the WTO and the EU 's largest trading partner , applied for membership in the WTO in June 1993 .
Moscow must still negotiate the final terms of its entry into the trade organization .
But Barroso said that Russia becoming a WTO member in 2011 is now a " realistic perspective . "
Members of an Iraqi committee charged with drafting a new constitution are meeting Sunday to consider requesting an extension for drawing up the document .
The committee is facing a Monday deadline for making such a request to parliament , or the current date of August 15 stands as the day Iraq 's National Assembly must approve the charter to face a national referendum in mid-October .
Ahead of today 's meeting , committee Chairman Humam Hammoudi is reported by Associated Press to have said he would recommend that the group ask for an additional 30 days to complete a draft document .
Other committee members say no decision has yet been made .
Iraqi legislators have been grappling over constitutional issues such as federalism , dual nationality and the role of Islam .
U.S. officials have been pushing Iraq to move ahead with the constitution .
The White House says U.S. President George Bush and first lady Laura Bush will attend the opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics in Beijing .
That announcement Thursday is the first confirmation of the president 's plans to attend the August 8 ceremony , despite calls from some U.S. lawmakers and activists for a boycott .
Mr. Bush also will travel to Thailand and South Korea during the August trip .
In South Korea , he will meet with President Lee Myung-bak to discuss ratification of a bilateral free trade agreement .
The U.S. president also will hold talks with senior leaders during his stops in Bangkok and Beijing .
Oil prices soared to a record high of $ 62.30 a barrel in New York trading on Monday after Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd died .
In London , Brent crude also hit a record high price $ 60.98 a barrel .
Prices rose more than $ 1.5 , even though analysts expect no changes in Saudi oil policy .
Saudi Arabia is the world 's largest oil exporter and a key member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries .
Rising demand and supply concerns have pushed oil prices upward by 40 percent over the past year .
South Africa 's ruling party has accused U.S. health officials of using Africans as " guinea pigs " and covering up possible adverse effects of a drug used by pregnant women infected with the AIDS virus .
The statement by the African National Congress comes after a string of reports that U.S.-funded trials in Uganda sparked safety concerns about the drug , Nevirapine .
South Africa currently dispenses Nevirapine for free in public hospitals .
The drug is used to slash the mother-to-child transmission of HIV , the AIDS-causing virus .
This week , the Associated Press reported that in 2002 , U.S. health authorities failed to inform the White House over concerns a single dose of Nevirapine might create resistance to future AIDS medication .
The Bush Administration has since promoted use of Nevirapine in Africa .
U.S. health officials said Friday that trials found only a small number of cases where adverse reactions might be attributed to Nevirapine .
Thousands of people gathered Friday inside Egypt 's most important mosque to protest the Israeli offensive in Lebanon .
Demonstrators at Cairo 's al-Azhar mosque chanted slogans in support of the Hezbollah militia following prayers .
The crowd also criticized the Egyptian government for its refusal to express support for Hezbollah .
There were no reports of violence during the Cairo protest .
However protesters in Iran Friday threw bricks and explosives at the British Embassy in Tehran , damaging the building .
Iranian demonstrators accused the British government of being an accomplice in Israel 's fight against Hezbollah .
Meanwhile , several Arab foreign ministers say they will hold an emergency meeting in Beirut Monday to express solidarity with Lebanon .
The ministers last met in Cairo in July to call for a cease-fire in Lebanon .
Astronomers using the giant Keck One telescope atop a volcano in Hawaii have discovered a thermal hot spot on Saturn .
Infrared images show a warm polar vortex swirling at Saturn 's south pole , and scientists say the hot spot has the highest temperatures on the planet .
A polar vortex is a large-scale weather pattern , similar to a jet stream in Earth 's upper atmosphere .
Polar vortices found on Earth , Mars , Venus and Jupiter are significantly colder than their surroundings .
Saturn 's hot spot is the first warm polar vortex ever seen in our solar system .
Bosnia 's top war crimes court has indicted four former Bosnian Serb soldiers in connection with the worst massacre on European soil since World War II .
The court Friday charged the four suspects with killing 800 Muslim men and boys as part of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre .
Prosecutors say the soldiers carried out the executions at a farm just outside of Srebrenica with " the aim of destroying a national , ethnic and religious group . "
All four suspects were arrested earlier this year .
The Bosnian war crimes court has put dozens of Bosnian Serbs on trial for complicity in the Srebrenica killings , including former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic .
About 8,000 Muslim men and boys died during the massacre at the United Nations-protected enclave .
Dozens of people have been killed or are missing after parts of Afghanistan were hit by heavy snowfall and icy conditions .
Officials in the western province of Herat say at least 43 people have died in Ghorian district over the last two days .
The heavy snow has caused avalanches , trapping many people , including local shepherds and their livestock .
The bad weather also has blocked roads , preventing the delivery of much-needed food and supplies to parts of the country .
Afghanistan already is facing a severe food shortage due to high grain prices and rebel attacks on United Nations food convoys .
Democratic Republic of Congo 's President Joseph Kabila has fired 11 cabinet ministers , including six who were named in a corruption probe .
State media reported the changes late Monday by Mr. Kabila , who is on a rare visit to the eastern city of Kisangani .
The shake-up includes the ministers of transport , mines , energy , higher education , foreign trade and public works .
In November , the six officials were suspended in the wake of a government report accusing them of possible embezzlement and misuse of state resources .
Also included in Monday 's cabinet reshuffle were the ministers of defense , economy , health , social affairs and labor .
President Kabila 's cabinet includes officials from former rebel groups and other rivals in the nation 's five-year war .
The transitional government was set up as part of a 2003 peace deal .
An insurgent bomb attack killed at least four Iraqis Tuesday in Baghdad .
Officials say the bomb was aimed at nearby police officers .
Elsewhere in the capital , the U.S. military says five insurgents were killed and seven captured during a massive firefight with Iraqi troops in a Sunni Arab district .
West of Baghdad , heavy fighting erupted Monday between U.S. forces and insurgents hiding in a mosque in Ramadi .
No details on casualties are available .
Iraqi leaders remain deadlocked on forming a new government as fighting raged on across the country .
Parliament was due to open Monday , but that session was put off as Shi'ites , Sunni Arabs and Kurds tried to agree on who will serve as prime minister .
A senior Afghan official says U.S. and Afghan forces killed about 50 Taleban insurgents Monday in southern Uruzgan province .
Provincial Governor Jan Mohammad Khan said a major Taleban ammunition depot was destroyed in the operation , and that some 25 fighters were captured .
Meanwhile , U.S. soldiers fired warning shots outside the U.S. military headquarters at Bagram Air Base Tuesday , where several hundred Afghans gathered to demand the release of eight villagers arrested in an overnight raid .
The U.S. military said the shots were fired after some protesters threw stones at military vehicles and tried to push down the base 's outer gate .
It said the men were arrested at a compound in Bagram village after troops discovered bomb-making materials there , and that those detained were suspected of planning attacks against U.S.-led forces .
People in China , Korea , Vietnam and elsewhere are ringing in the Lunar New Year Sunday with street celebrations , decorations and gifts .
The 15-day holiday , which is the single most important holiday for Chinese people , is the start of the Year of the Dog .
In Beijing , authorities lifted a 12-year ban on exploding fireworks .
The Beijing Daily newspaper said about three thousand police officers are patrolling downtown areas in case of fire and accidents .
During the new year celebrations , people often give gifts to family and friends .
Animal protection groups are urging people not to give dogs , fearing the animals will end up abandoned .
In Vietnam , the new year is known as " Tet . "
This year , the official media reported a 30 percent increase in the number of foreign tourists arriving just before the holiday .
Al-Qaida 's second-in-command says the United States failed to kill him with an airstrike earlier this month in Pakistan .
In a videotape broadcast Monday on Arabic language al-Jazeera television Ayman , al-Zawahiri says the attack killed several of those he calls innocents .
Al-Zawahiri asks President Bush if he knows where to find him .
He answers the question himself , saying he is among " the masses of Muslims " and enjoying their support and protection .
Al-Zawahiri also says the United States ignored a truce offer made by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in an audiotape broadcast two weeks ago if American forces withdraw from Iraq and Afghanistan .
The White House flatly rejected the offer of a truce , saying the United States does not negotiate with terrorists .
Uganda has dropped criminal charges against a U.S. evangelist and has instead ordered his deportation .
Peter Waldron was arrested in February after police found assault weapons and ammunition in his home .
He was charged with weapons possession under the country 's terrorism law .
Waldron has denied being a terrorist .
Prosecutors have not disclosed the reason for dropping the case .
President Bush has renewed a one-year ban on imports from military-ruled Burma .
A White House statement Tuesday says the ban is a sign of serious concern about the Burmese regime 's continuing refusal to move towards democracy .
The statement says the United States watches in deep dismay as a country of Burma 's beauty and potential deteriorates under the oppressive weight of the military junta .
Burma 's neighbors in the Association of Southeast Nations have recently condemned the regime 's lack of tangible progress on democratic reforms .
Tropical Storm Ernesto is due to strike Cuba early Monday after dumping heavy rains on Haiti and the Dominican Republic Sunday .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the storm is expected to return to hurricane strength with wins of about 120 kilometers-per-hour as it approaches Cuba .
Tens of thousands of residents on the eastern part of the island have been evacuated .
Ernesto was at hurricane strength early Sunday , but was later downgraded to a tropical storm .
It dumped heavy rains on flood-prone and mudslide-prone areas of Haiti .
The storm is predicted to cross Cuba , then intensify again as it heads north toward the Gulf of Mexico and the Florida Keys - a string of U.S. islands dividing the Atlantic Ocean from the Gulf of Mexico .
The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to vote Tuesday on whether to approve John Bolton , President Bush 's controversial pick for ambassador to the United Nations .
Opposition Democrats want to delay the vote so they can further investigate allegations that Mr. Bolton threatened subordinates and withheld information from superiors in his role as undersecretary of state for arms control .
But committee chairman Richard Lugar said in a statement today that it is time for the panel to make a decision .
He said the concerns raised about Mr. Bolton do not warrant rejection of the nomination .
Mr. Bolton has denied the allegations .
Republicans control the committee by a 10-to-eight margin .
If approved by the committee , Mr. Bolton 's nomination goes to the full Senate for a vote .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has appointed intelligence chief Eduardo Medina Mora as public security minister to replace his predecessor who died in a helicopter crash last week .
Mr. Medina Mora will take the position of Ramon Martin Huerta who died last Wednesday when the helicopter he was traveling in crashed in mountains near the capital .
At least seven other people on board were also killed , including Federal Preventive Police chief Tomas Valencia .
Earlier this week , President Fox named General Eduardo Martinez to take over Mr. Valencia 's position .
Mexican government officials say all available evidence suggests bad weather caused the helicopter crash .
Pakistan says it has successfully launched a ballistic missile capable of carrying a nuclear warhead up to 2,000 kilometers , the longest range rocket Islamabad has yet tested .
Officials say the Shaheen II missile developed in Pakistan hit its target .
The rocket is said to be capable of carrying all types of conventional and nuclear warheads .
The military says President Pervez Musharraf watched Saturday 's launch , which took place at an undisclosed location .
In a statement , General Musharraf vowed to further upgrade Pakistan 's nuclear capability , but with strict adherence to non-proliferation .
Pakistan and arch-rival India routinely conduct missile tests after informing each other .
Saturday 's test came two days after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Islamabad and urged a continuation of the peace process between Pakistan and India .
New warnings of famine conditions and food shortages have been sounded for parts of the Horn of Africa .
The Famine Early Warning Systems Network says more than one million cattle herders in southeast Ethiopia face " extreme food insecurity " due to the lack of normal late-year rains .
The U.S.-funded group says pre-famine conditions have emerged in several districts , including Afder , Liban and Gode .
The group says two million people also need humanitarian aid in neighboring Somalia and an additional one million are facing shortages in Kenya .
It says such conditions are alarming at this time of year , several months before the onset of the dry season , when conditions normally deteriorate to their worst levels of the year .
It says food aid has been dispatched to the affected regions and urged relief workers to act quickly to distribute the aid .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has dismissed international condemnation of his call for Israel to be " wiped off the map " , saying his controversial remarks were " right and just . "
The official IRNA news agency quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad Friday as saying international scorn had no validity .
He said his words express the views of the Iranian people .
Tens of thousands of Iranians staged anti-Israel protests across the country today , trampling on Israeli and American flags and chanting " death to Israel . "
The latest events came amid Israeli calls for Iran 's expulsion from the United Nations .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Thursday the rights of all states in the Middle East to live in peace will top the agenda of his upcoming visit to Iran .
Mr. Ahmadinejad made his controversial remarks Wednesday at a Tehran conference called " The World Without Zionism . "
An explosion rocked Baghdad Monday as U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney arrived for an unannounced visit .
Few details have been released about the blast that occurred shortly after Cheney arrived today .
The vice president is expected to meet with Iraqi leaders and U.S. military officials while in Baghdad .
Cheney 's stop in Iraq is part of a Middle East tour that will take him to Oman , Saudi Arabia , Israel , the West Bank and Turkey .
During his 10-day tour he will cover many issues , including advancing the Mideast peace process , the situations in Lebanon and Syria , Iran 's rising influence in the region and soaring gasoline prices in the United States .
U.S. Senator and presidential candidate John McCain is also in Baghdad to meet with Iraqi and U.S. officials .
An Israeli police spokesman said border police shot and killed a 16-year old Arab girl in southern Israel Saturday after she began shooting at a border police base .
The teenager , identified as a Bedouin high school student , had been armed with a pistol .
Also Saturday , Palestinian medical workers said Israeli troops killed two Palestinian gunmen along the border of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip .
An Israeli military spokeswoman confirmed troops had shot at several gunmen in northern Gaza and hit two of them .
Palestinian rescue workers said they recovered two bodies at the scene .
The incident is the latest in a string of sporadic violence in Gaza .
The clash follows a period of relative calm in the wake of cease-fires that Hamas and Israel declared in January , ending a three-week Israeli offensive in the impoverished territory .
Pakistan says its troops have raided a madrassa , or Islamic seminary , in the North Waziristan tribal region , killing a suspected militant in a shootout and arresting seven others .
A military statement Wednesday says security forces raided the Abu Shoaib madrassa in the semi-autonomous region bordering Afghanistan .
Officials say the school was being used as a recruiting center for militants .
The statement says security forces seized a large supply of arms , ammunition , explosives and documents during the raid .
President Pervez Musharraf has said he plans to close those madrassas that do not register with the government by December 31 .
Pakistan , a key anti-terrorism ally of the United States , has been trying to flush out foreign militants from the region for almost 18 months .
The area is also considered a possible hideout for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
Indian police have detained the editor of a Hindi-language magazine after he republished Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that have angered Muslims worldwide .
Officials said Thursday that Alok Tomar , editor of Senior India was taken to a police station in the capital , New Delhi .
India 's government has warned the national media not to publish anything that hurts the feelings of any religious community .
Associates of Tomar told the Associated Press that the magazine had no intention of offending Muslims .
The publication of the Muhammad cartoons first by a Danish newspaper and then by some European newspapers sparked protests and riots around the world , in which dozens of people have died in recent weeks .
The U.N. World Food Program , WFP , says it has suspended food convoys to Sudan 's strife-torn western Darfur region after rebels attacked a village in nearby West Kordofan and government forces retaliated .
A U.N. statement says the WFP halted three convoys of 70 trucks carrying food aid intended for Darfur after what it called a major attack by the rebel Sudanese Liberation Army , SLA , against the market town of Ghubaysh Monday .
The statement says the attack , which prompted retaliation from Sudanese forces , follows a series of clashes in Darfur between government troops , allied militias and rebel groups .
Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels recently suspended talks after trading charges of cease-fire violations .
The economy , one of the world 's smallest and least developed , is based on agriculture and forestry , which provide the main livelihood for more than 60 % of the population .
Agriculture consists largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry .
Rugged mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive .
The economy is closely aligned with India 's through strong trade and monetary links and dependence on India 's financial assistance .
The industrial sector is technologically backward , with most production of the cottage industry type .
Most development projects , such as road construction , rely on Indian migrant labor .
Model education , social , and environment programs are underway with support from multilateral development organizations .
Each economic program takes into account the government 's desire to protect the country 's environment and cultural traditions .
For example , the government , in its cautious expansion of the tourist sector , encourages visits by upscale , environmentally conscientious tourists .
Complicated controls and uncertain policies in areas such as industrial licensing , trade , labor , and finance continue to hamper foreign investment .
Hydropower exports to India have boosted Bhutan 's overall growth .
New hydropower projects will be the driving force behind Bhutan 's ability to create employment and sustain growth in the coming years .
A Cuban independent journalist has become the sixth imprisoned dissident to be freed by Cuba 's communist government this week .
Relatives of Edel Jose Garcia say he was freed Thursday following a medical checkup at a prison hospital in Havana .
Few other details were given .
The six dissidents that have been freed this week are among 75 pro-democracy activists jailed last year after a government crackdown .
Among those freed earlier this week were well-known dissident writer and poet Raul Rivero , opposition politician Osvaldo Alfonso Valdes and economist and journalist Oscar Espinoso Chepe .
The men were sentenced to lengthy jail terms on charges they conspired with the United States to overthrow President Fidel Castro .
On Wednesday , at least 18 other jailed Cuban activists were transferred to a prison hospital in Havana amid speculation they may also be released .
The economy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo - a nation endowed with vast potential wealth - is slowly recovering from decades of decline .
Systemic corruption since independence in 1960 and conflict that began in May 1997 has dramatically reduced national output and government revenue , increased external debt , and resulted in the deaths of more than 5 million people from violence , famine , and disease .
Foreign businesses curtailed operations due to uncertainty about the outcome of the conflict , lack of infrastructure , and the difficult operating environment .
Conditions began to improve in late 2002 with the withdrawal of a large portion of the invading foreign troops .
The transitional government reopened relations with international financial institutions and international donors , and President KABILA began implementing reforms .
Progress has been slow and the International Monetary Fund curtailed their program for the DRC at the end of March 2006 because of fiscal overruns .
Much economic activity still occurs in the informal sector , and is not reflected in GDP data .
Renewed activity in the mining sector , the source of most export income , boosted Kinshasa 's fiscal position and GDP growth from 2006 - 2008 , however , the government 's review of mining contracts that began in 2006 , combined with a fall in world market prices for the DRC 's key mineral exports temporarily weakened output in 2009 , leading to a balance of payments crisis .
The recovery in mineral prices beginning in mid 2009 boosted mineral exports , and emergency funds from the IMF boosted foreign reserves .
An uncertain legal framework , corruption , and a lack of transparency in government policy are long-term problems for the mining sector and for the economy as a whole .
The global recession cut economic growth in 2009 to less than half its 2008 level , but growth returned to 6 % in 2010 .
The DRC signed a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF in 2009 and received $ 12 billion in multilateral and bilateral debt relief in 2010 .
Sri Lankan authorities are investigating a grenade explosion in Trincomalee that killed five young Tamils and injured two others Monday .
Military spokesmen say the incident was a botched attempt to ambush a military patrol , and that victims of the blast may have been associated with Tamil rebel groups .
No government soldiers were injured .
A pro-rebel Internet site , Tamilnet says the victims , all teenaged students , were at a popular beachside gathering spot Monday evening when unidentified men tossed explosives into a crowd .
Trincomalee , the major city in northeastern Sri Lanka , is under government control , but Tamil rebels based in nearby jungles have staged frequent operations in the area .
A truce in 2002 halted decades of conflict between Sri Lankan government forces and the country 's separatist Tamils , but the cease-fire has been threatened by recent outbreaks of violence .
Syria is rejecting President Bush 's charges that it sponsors terrorism , saying the claims are " useless " and aimed at appeasing conservatives in the United States .
Speaking Thursday on Arab television , Syrian Information Minister Mehdi Dakhlallah said " everyone " knows Syria is cooperating in the fight against terrorism .
He criticized Washington for including Lebanon 's Hezbollah on its list of terrorist organizations , saying the group is singled out by the United States because of its opposition to Israel .
In his State of the Union address , President Bush accused Damascus of allowing terrorists to use Syrian and Lebanese territory to attack Israel and " destroy every chance of peace " in the Middle East .
Hezbollah battled Israel during the Jewish state 's 22-year occupation of southern Lebanon , and continues to skirmish with Israeli forces in disputed border areas .
The Swedish Academy announces the 2005 Nobel Prize in Literature Thursday as members of the institution face a dispute over last year 's choice .
The panel announced the date for this year 's award Tuesday , the same day academy member Knut Ahnlund stepped down after criticizing the writing of last year 's winner , Elfriede Jelinek .
Her work includes frank descriptions of sexuality and conflict between men and women .
Mr. Ahnlund said that selection irreparably damaged the award 's reputation .
But academy head Horace Engdahl dismissed the criticism and said Mr. Ahnlund has not taken part in the award discussions since 1996 .
On Monday , American Thomas Schelling and Israeli-American Robert Aumann won the 2005 Nobel Prize in Economics for their work in understanding conflict and cooperation .
Authorities in Nepal say gunmen have shot and killed a priest who was the kingdom 's representative on the World Hindu Council .
Police report that Narayan Pokhrel was attacked early Friday in southwestern Nepal , and that one of the priest 's aides was wounded .
Mr. Pokhrel was a popular religious leader in Nepal , who population is predominantly Hindu .
Today had been the final day of a trip he was making through southwestern parts of the Himalayan nation , holding religious ceremonies and seeking financial assistance for charitable groups .
The motive for the priest 's killing is unclear , but one account quotes his nephew as saying that Mr. Pokhrel was gunned down by members of Nepal 's Maoist rebels .
European Union foreign ministers are meeting in emergency session Sunday to try to break a deadlock over membership talks with Turkey one day before those talks are scheduled to begin .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says he understands some nations ' concerns , but abandoning the talks would be a " failure " for the EU .
Austria insists the talks with Ankara should include an alternative to giving Turkey full EU membership .
Turkey opposes this .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Sunday that EU leaders must decide whether the trading bloc will become a global power , or remain what he called a " Christian club . "
Negotiations for admitting mainly Muslim Turkey are expected to take up to 10 years .
New members of the EU must be approved by all 25 member states .
Chinese officials say a gas explosion has trapped at least 50 coal miners deep underground .
Officials say the blast occurred before dawn Thursday at a mine in northern Hebei province .
The condition of the miners is not immediately known .
The latest accident in China 's notoriously dangerous mines comes one week after an accidental explosion killed 21 miners in Sichuan province in southwestern China .
U.S. Senate committee hearings have begun for Judge Samuel Alito on his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court .
Earlier Monday , President Bush called on U.S. senators to give Alito a " fair and dignified " hearing .
The president had breakfast with his nominee and appeared briefly with him in the White House Rose Garden .
The conservative nominee is expected to face tough questioning from members of the Senate Judiciary committee .
Opposition Democrats , as well as some members of President Bush 's own Republican party , plan to question Alito on his views about presidential powers granted under the U.S. Constitution .
The issue has gained attention since President Bush 's recent admission he authorized U.S. intelligence agencies to monitor telephone calls and emails between people inside the United States and abroad without seeking permission from a special court .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is pushing Iran to resume talks on its disputed nuclear program , or face new sanctions .
She said Thursday that stronger sanctions in the energy and financial sectors would be considered if Iran does not agree to negotiate by September .
The United States and other Western countries believe Iran is developing a nuclear bomb , but Tehran says it is pursuing nuclear energy .
Ms. Merkel met in Berlin Thursday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , whose country considers Iran its greatest threat .
Mr. Netanyahu said those who call for the destruction of the Jewish state can not go unchallenged .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for Israel to be wiped off the map .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says al-Qaida terrorists , Taleban fighters and Kashmiri militants have a formed what he called a " very dangerous " nexus .
In an interview broadcast Monday on the American television network , ABC , Mr. Musharraf said the links among the groups mean officials must work to resolve the ongoing separatist conflict in Kashmir .
The president also said Pakistan 's army continues to look for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden while battling al-Qaida and Taleban forces inside Pakistan .
He told ABC News that 80,000 Pakistani troops are involved in the effort .
Mr. Musharraf said Afghan President Hamid Karzai recently gave him a list of names and telephone numbers of suspected Taleban allies living in Pakistan , but he said most of the leads were dead ends .
President Bush visits Pakistan and India this week .
French Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux says Saudi Arabia has warned of an al-Qaida terrorism threat in Europe and against France in particular .
Hortefeux told French radio and television Sunday that European intelligence agencies received the warning in the past few days .
He said the threat is real and that the government is on alert .
Earlier this month , the United States , Britain , and Japan warned their citizens of possible terrorist attacks in Europe after Western intelligence officials uncovered a plot by al-Qaida-linked militants based in Pakistan for terror attacks in major British , French and German cities .
The officials said the attacks could be similar to the 2008 terrorist strike on Mumbai , India , where near-simultaneous attacks by Islamic militants killed 166 people and wounded many more .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has strongly denied U.S. charges that he is supporting Colombian rebels or trying to destabilize other countries in South America .
Mr. Chavez Thursday accused the United States of spreading lies and said he wants U.S. officials to prove their recent charges .
U.S. State Department officials say they have mounting evidence that Venezuela - the world 's fifth-largest oil exporter - uses its wealth to buy weapons for guerrillas in Colombia .
Mr. Chavez called the United States a " terrorist state . "
Venezuela is a key oil supplier to the United States .
But Mr. Chavez - a frequent critic of the United States - has been developing closer political and energy alliances with South American countries , China , Russia , India and Iran .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is reported to have told his security forces to use " an iron fist " to maintain the current cease-fire with Israel .
Palestinian news reports say Mr. Abbas told Palestinian police in the Gaza Strip Wednesday that they must not allow anybody to break the calm .
The reports quoted Mr. Abbas as saying whoever wants to sabotage the truce with rocket fire or shooting must be stopped , by force if necessary .
Last month , Mr. Abbas persuaded armed Palestinian factions waging a more than four year violent uprising against Israel to maintain a de~facto truce .
Israel says it will not resume peace talks until Palestinians dismantle the armed factions .
The presidents of Brazil and Bolivia have vowed to resolve their differences over La Paz 's nationalization of its energy industry .
Brazilian leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Evo Morales of Bolivia met Saturday in Vienna on the sidelines of the European Union-Latin America summit .
Mr. Morales says the neighboring South American nations are allies , and he blamed the media for portraying them as adversaries .
The Bolivian president also says his government will continue to negotiate with Brazil 's state-owned energy giant Petrobras about continuing to operate in Bolivia .
Mr. Morales nationalized Bolivia 's energy sector May 1 , and gave foreign energy companies 180 days to agree to new contracts with the state-owned firm .
He triggered further concerns Thursday when he said foreign oil companies may not be compensated for revenues that have been nationalized .
A Kenyan court has charged two members of parliament and a government minister with committing hate speech while campaigning against the country 's proposed new constitution .
Lawmakers Fred Kapondi and Joshua Kutuny , and Assistant Roads Minister Wilfred Machage , were released Wednesday after each paid bail of about $ 1,250 .
All three pleaded not guilty during a court hearing in Nairobi .
The three men were arrested Tuesday and charged with making inflammatory remarks during a rally last week .
Political tension is running high in Kenya as an August 4 referendum on the new constitution draws near .
On Sunday , multiple explosions struck a Nairobi rally against the proposed charter , killing six people and wounding more than 100 .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts .
A group of Kenyan churches against the new constitution blamed the violence on the government , which strongly supports the constitutional reform .
Germany has asked the United States to join Europe in ending the isolation of Iran .
German Defense Minister Peter Struck says Iran needs economic and security incentives in order to abandon it 's nuclear ambitions .
He made the comments Saturday , at the 41st annual security conference , meeting in Munich , Germany .
Mr. Struck opened the conference by suggesting a lesser role for NATO in Iraq , while advocating a more direct coordination between the European Union and the United States .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asked attendees to put aside their differences over Iraq and unite in the global war on terrorism .
Other speakers today include top defense officials from Iran , Russia and Egypt .
The security conference is set against the backdrop of NATO 's recent decision to increase troop levels in Afghanistan , North Korea 's claim to have nuclear weapons , and Iran 's developing nuclear capabilities .
Angola 's government says 93 people , mostly children , have died from an unidentified fever that is similar to the deadly Ebola virus .
Deputy Health Minister Jose van Dunem said Monday that 101 cases of the mysterious illness have been reported at a hospital in northern Uige province .
Local officials are looking for two people diagnosed with the illness who left the hospital .
Mr. Van Dunem says initial tests have ruled out several common diseases , including Ebola .
But he says Angolan officials are awaiting the results of a second Ebola test from the United States .
The World Health Organization has set up a task force to begin studying the deadly fever , which involves vomiting and bloody discharges .
In recent years , Ebola outbreaks have killed hundreds of people in central and southern Africa .
Iranian television is reporting that there has been a large explosion near the southwestern port city of Daylam in Bushehr province .
It was not immediately clear what caused the blast , but residents reported seeing an aircraft overhead .
State television says the explosion may have been caused by a fuel tank dropping from an Iranian airplane .
Iran and Russia are building a nuclear reactor in Bushehr , about 150 kilometers south of where Wednesday 's explosion occurred .
The African Union has given the Sudanese government and Darfur rebels 24 hours to end fighting in the vast desert region .
It says after that time it will report any cease-fire violations to the United Nations Security Council .
The pan-African body issued the warning Friday in Abuja , Nigeria , where mediators and representatives from both sides are gathered for peace talks .
The negotiations have stalled amid allegations of renewed fighting .
Earlier Friday , the commander of the African Union 's observer force in Darfur , Nigerian General Festus Okonkwo , briefed mediators on the situation , saying the Sudanese government appears to be preparing a major military offensive in the region .
He also detailed truce violations by the government and rebels in Darfur and said a huge amount of weapons have poured into the region over the last two weeks .
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him , and immediately pretended to be lame .
The Wolf , coming up , inquired the cause of his lameness .
The Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn .
He requested that the Wolf pull it out , lest when he ate him it should injure his throat .
The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot , and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the thorn , when the Ass , with his heels , kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away .
The Wolf , being thus fearfully mauled , said , " I am rightly served , for why did I attempt the art of healing , when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher ? '
The islands have the potential for oil and gas development .
Waters around the islands support commercial fishing , but the islands themselves are not populated on a permanent basis .
Brazil says it will repay its entire $ 15.5 billion debt to the International Monetary Fund early , a move lauded by IMF officials .
In Sao Paulo Tuesday , Finance Minister Antonio Palocci said the payment will come from the country 's reserves and be paid before the end of the year .
He said it will save the South American country more than $ 900 million in interest costs .
IMF Managing Director Rodrigo Rato said the move reflects the excellent track record of policy management by Brasilia .
He said the early payment also indicates the growing strength of Brazil 's economy , especially in improving trade and current account surpluses as well as strong inflows of capital into the country .
The early repayment represents an economic turnaround for Brazil , which in 2002 obtained an unprecedented loan from the IMF to avoid a massive default on its debt .
Brazil is South America 's largest economy .
Leaders of the protests that all but shut down Ecuador 's oil industry for the past week are preparing to engage in talks with the country 's government .
Protest leaders say they have suspended the demonstrations in order to talk , restoring calm in the country 's northeast , where two provinces remain under a state of emergency .
Meanwhile , Venezuela says it will lend crude oil to Ecuador .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said Sunday his country will assume Ecuador 's oil commitments at no cost .
Most Ecuadorian oil exports go to the United States .
The protesters sabotaged oil facilities in a demand for jobs and infrastructure improvements .
Ecuador 's state-run oil firm , Petroecuador , which usually produces over 200,000 barrels of oil a day , produced only 33,000 during the protests on Saturday .
Government officials say it will take until at least October for normal production to be resumed .
Afghan officials say they are working for the release of kidnapped Italian aid worker Clementina Cantoni , who was dragged out of her car Monday by gunmen in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
President Hamid Karzai told reporters Saturday that the government knows who kidnapped the CARE International worker and wants her released safely .
His comments followed news reports that one suspected kidnapper , who identified himself as Temur Shah , claimed to have killed her .
The man later reversed himself and said she is still alive .
Aid agencies have pasted hundreds of posters around Kabul appealing for the release of Ms. Cantoni .
The posters say , " Please help Clementina " and praise her for aiding thousands of Afghan widows and war orphans .
The U.S. economy has a net loss of 159,000 jobs in September , the biggest drop in five years .
Friday 's report from the Labor Department also says the unemployment rate held steady at 6.1 percent .
This report shows more job losses than economists predicted .
This is the last unemployment report scheduled to be published before the presidential election at a time when many voters say the economy is their major concern .
The figures on job losses are based on a government survey of tens of thousands of households .
The jobless rate comes from a separate survey of hundreds of thousands of businesses .
Singer , songwriter , and producer Ryan Tedder from the band OneRepublic has written hit songs for artists like Jennifer Lopez , Natasha Bedingfield , and Hillary Duff .
Now , Ryan is recording hit songs with his band , OneRepublic , and their new album Dreaming Out Loud .
VOA 's Larry London met with Ryan Tedder when he toured the Washington area .
Elton John celebrated his 60th birthday on stage Sunday March 25 , making a record-breaking 60th appearance in New York City 's Madison Square Garden .
Wearing rose-tinted glasses and a black tail coat , the singer-songwriter performed more than 30 hit songs spanning more than four decades .
He recalled two of his most memorable appearances at the storied Manhattan venue : a 1974 date in which John Lennon joined him on stage for the last time , and a performance following the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 .
Elton John 's longtime lyricist Bernie Taupin serenaded him with a chorus of " Happy Birthday , " accompanied by comedians Robin Williams and Whoopie Goldberg .
Elton ended his concert with his first hit single , " Your Song . "
He has sold more than 200 million albums worldwide .
A fugitive Philippines marine officer has surrendered after years on the run , saying he is ready to stand trial over two attempted coups against former president Gloria Arroyo .
Captain Nicanor Faeldon led 300 junior officers in a takeover of buildings in Manila 's posh Makati business district in 2003 .
During his trial four years later , he and several other officers walked out of the courtroom and occupied the deluxe Peninsula Hotel .
He has been in hiding ever since .
Faeldon , who will be presented to reporters Thursday , told a television station he was simply trying to call attention to alleged corruption under former President Arroyo .
He says he is ready to face the consequences now that a new reform-minded president , Benigno Aquino III , has taken office .
Brunei has a small well-to-do economy that encompasses a mixture of foreign and domestic entrepreneurship , government regulation , welfare measures , and village tradition .
Crude oil and natural gas production account for just over half of GDP and more than 90 % of exports .
Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia , and substantial income from overseas investment supplements income from domestic production .
The government provides for all medical services and free education through the university level and subsidizes rice and housing .
A new monetary authority was established in January 2011 with responsibilities that include monetary policy , monitoring of financial institutions , and currency trading activities .
A project aimed at providing inexpensive computers for millions of children in developing countries has hit a snag .
The program is called " One Laptop Per Child " ( OLPC ) and the Intel Corporation is pulling out of the project .
Intel is the world 's largest computer chipmaker , and it was providing money and expertise .
Intel officials left the board of directors of the OLPC non-profit group after a disagreement over the company 's continuing support for its own effort to build and sell cheap laptops using new technology .
OLPC had wanted Intel to work on the One Laptop Per Child computer exclusively .
OPEC oil ministers have agreed to prop up sliding oil prices by cutting production by one million barrels a day .
The decision in Cairo Friday comes amid a drop in oil prices from an all-time high of more than $ 55 in mid-October to more than $ 40 now .
OPEC countries had been producing above their quota to meet a strong demand that sent prices to record highs .
The delegates decided to leave the current quota of 27 million barrels a day unchanged .
OPEC fears prices will slide further if inventories rise too fast .
The ministers say cuts will not take effect immediately , because many producers have already agreed to January supplies .
Israeli-Arab lawmaker Azmi Bishara has announced his resignation from the Knesset after leaving the country amid a police investigation .
Bishara says he tendered has resignation Sunday at the Israel Embassy in Egypt .
An embassy spokesman confirmed the move , saying Bishara had handed his resignation to Ambassador Shalom Cohen at a meeting Sunday morning .
Police announced last week that Bishara is being investigated , but have refused to give details .
Bishara has been an outspoken critic of the state of Israel and its Palestinian policies .
He has said he will stay abroad for a time .
The United States says its relief helicopters are now supplying twice as much aid to key distribution centers in quake-ravaged areas of Pakistan .
The U.S. Embassy in Islamabad said Sunday this is to ensure at least a 30-day food supply in remote villages before bad weather grounds flights again .
The statement says U.S. Chinook helicopters are now delivering over 100 tons of cargo a day , doubling their usual load by hanging supplies in nets under the aircraft .
Meanwhile , the United Nations and Pakistani authorities are investigating why Pakistani earthquake victims forced their way onto two aid helicopters Friday and made the pilots airlift them from the disaster zone .
The October 8 quake killed more than 73,000 people and made more than three million people homeless .
Pakistani officials said military fighter jets and helicopter gunships pounded tribal areas in northwestern Pakistan on Sunday , killing at least 30 insurgents and destroying seven militant hide-outs .
Pakistan launched the offensive in Orakzai to rout Taliban fighters from the mountainous area near its border with Afghanistan .
Elsewhere in Pakistan 's tribal region , suspected militants released 50 of the 60 people kidnapped at gunpoint in Kurram on Saturday .
Local officials say tribal elders are helping to negotiate the release of the remaining hostages .
Serbian government officials say a former Bosnian Serb interior minister plans to surrender to the United Nations Tribunal in The Hague to face war crimes charges .
The government said Thursday Mica Stanisic will travel to The Hague and surrender to the court Friday .
The tribunal has not yet made his indictment public .
Mr. Stanisic was Bosnian Serb interior minister during part of the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina that began in 1992 .
The European Union , NATO and Western governments have urged Serbia to arrest war crimes suspects and transfer them to The Hague .
Since January , four high-ranking Serb military officials have surrendered to the tribunal .
However , at least 17 Serbian or Bosnian Serb suspects , as well as Croatian General Ante Gotovina , still remain at large .
World oil prices declined about two percent in Tuesday 's trading after Chinese oil imports slowed and a report on the U.S. economy disappointed investors .
In New York trading , the price of crude oil fell more than $ 2 to $ 79.43 .
A report on declining worker productivity in the United States prompted investors to expect less demand for energy , which would lower oil prices .
The United States and China are the world 's two largest oil consumers .
An Islamist Web site Monday says al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden soon will release a new message aimed at Europeans .
The Web site attributes the statement to al-Qaida 's media unit As-Sahab .
It is not clear if the message will be an audio or video statement or when it will be released .
Bin Laden released an audio taped message last month .
He called on insurgents in Iraq to unite and said militants must overcome rivalries and beware of sectarian divisions .
In September , bin Laden appeared on video for the first time in nearly three years .
That message coincided with the sixth anniversary of the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on the United States .
Bin Laden and his deputy , Ayman al-Zawahiri , are believed to be hiding in the border area between Afghanistan and Pakistan .
The United States has offered a $ 25-million reward for the capture of each man .
U.S. military lawyers want charges dropped against alleged conspirators in the September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States , saying their cases were improperly influenced by a Pentagon adviser .
In documents released Friday , defense attorneys argue that Air Force adviser Brig. Gen. Thomas Hartmann failed to provide fair and objective legal advice , and instead pushed prosecutors to take up " sexy " high-profile cases .
The defense 's motion pertains to the case of the alleged mastermind of the September 11 attacks , Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other prisoners held at the U.S. military detention center in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
A judge had already barred Hartmann from a case against Salim Hamdan , a former driver for al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden .
Hamdan was scheduled to go to trial early next month , but a military judge on Friday postponed the case for six weeks so the defendant can receive a mental evaluation .
Taiwan has withdrawn permits allowing journalists from China 's official Xinhua news agency and People 's Daily newspaper to report from Taipei .
Joseph Wu , chairman of Taiwan 's Mainland Affairs Council , said Sunday the decision was part of an overall review of exchanges with China , which regards Taiwan as a breakaway province .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian 's government announced its intention to conduct such a policy review after Beijing adopted a new anti-secession law approving the use of force against Taiwan if the island declares independence .
All journalists from the mainland had been barred from Taipei for more than five decades until late 2000 , when Taiwan issued a limited number of permits to Chinese reporters .
A four-day-long public holiday began in Iraq Thursday , ahead of Saturday 's referendum on a new constitution .
New checkpoints and concrete security barriers began appearing near polling stations , and a nighttime curfew was to go into effect .
Friday , Iraq will close its borders and vehicles will be banned .
In pre-election violence , two policemen were killed in the northern city of Kirkuk , and roadside bombs in Mosul and Tikrit killed two civilians and an American soldier .
About 15.5 million Iraqis are eligible to vote .
Today , detainees who have not been convicted of a crime , as well as hospital patients , were authorized to began casting their ballots early .
Late Wednesday , parliament approved a deal designed to win support from Sunni Arabs , who have generally been against the constitution .
But many Sunni groups say they will still vote " no . "
U.S. authorities have charged an American college student with providing aid to terrorists .
Court papers unsealed this week show that Syed Haris Ahmed , a mechanical engineering student at Georgia Tech in Atlanta was arrested on March 23 after a year-long investigation .
Authorities accuse Ahmed , who was born in Pakistan , of attending a terrorist training camp in Pakistan last year .
Ahmed has pleaded not guilty .
He is being held at an undisclosed location .
Authorities say another person from the Atlanta area , 19-year-old Ehsanul Islam Sadequee , was arrested in Bangladesh in connection with the investigation of Ahmed .
They say he is being flown to New York to face charges .
Officials say this is the first international terrorism charge filed in the state of Georgia .
Iran 's hard-line president has called for the destruction of Israel and warned Muslim nations who recognize the Jewish state that they will be forever disgraced .
Speaking at a Tehran conference entitled " The World Without Zionism " Wednesday , President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told thousands of students that countries or leaders who acknowledge Israel will be confronted with the wrath of the Islamic community .
Intoning the words of the founder of Iran 's Islamic revolution , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , he said , " Israel must be wiped off the map . "
He also called Israel 's recent withdrawal from the Gaza Strip " a trick , " meant to make Islamic states acknowledge Israel .
There was no immediate reaction to his comments from Jerusalem , but in Paris , a French foreign ministry spokesman strongly condemned the remarks .
Finance ministers are considering how to start winding down trillions of dollars in government stimulus funds that have saved the world 's economies from collapse .
Economic officials from the Group of 20 industrialized nations are meeting in London Friday and Saturday to discuss this and other issues ahead of the G-20 summit in the United States later this month .
G-20 governments are calling for a coordinated exit from the emergency stimulus measures .
Finance ministers in London this week also are expected to support actions to reduce bonuses paid to bankers .
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said Wednesday the " bonus culture must come to an end . "
Critics say these bonuses encourage risky bets that hurt companies and the economy and were a key reason the economic crisis grew so bad so quickly .
The late comedian Richard Pryor and late blues legend Robert Johnson are among the artists who will receive a posthumous lifetime achievement Grammy award .
The Recording Academy , which awards the Grammys - one of the top awards in the U.S. recording industry - said Pryor will be remembered for his deft treatment of controversial topics , such as race relations , that had previously been ignored .
Pryor died last month at age 65 , after suffering for years from a degenerative nerve disease .
Blues legend Robert Johnson will also receive an award .
Despite a short life that ended in 1938 , Johnson 's Delta blues style influenced generations of musicians .
Innovative rock musician David Bowie , country music artist Merle Haggard , and opera singer Jessye Norman are among the living performers to be recognized at the February 8 ceremony .
Iraq 's main Sunni Arab coalition has challenged partial vote results showing a strong lead for a Shi'ite coalition in last week 's parliamentary elections .
Leaders for the Iraqi Consensus Front said the preliminary totals did not match those recorded by party monitors in Baghdad province , and warned they may call for a re-vote .
Initial results show the Sunni coalition received 19 percent of the vote , and the Shi'ite-led United Iraqi Alliance took 59 percent in Baghdad .
Final results are expected early next month .
Meanwhile , U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad expressed concern that results showed votes in other parts of Iraq were mostly divided along religious and ethnic lines .
He said Iraq 's future relies on cross-ethnic cooperation .
In Washington , President Bush called Iraqi President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari Tuesday to congratulate them on the election .
Mauritania 's foreign minister says her country has broken diplomatic relations with Israel .
Speaking in the capital of Nouakchott late Saturday , Naha Mint Hamdi Ould Mouknass said Mauritania has cut ties with Israel in a " complete and definitive way . "
Mauritania was once one of three Arab states that had diplomatic relations with Israel .
It suspended the ties in January 2009 because of an Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip .
In March , the government expelled Israeli diplomats and ordered the closing of the Israeli embassy .
The 2009 Israeli offensive killed an estimated 1,300 Palestinians .
Israel said it launched the offensive to protect itself against rocket attacks by the militant group Hamas .
Mauritania 's move leaves Egypt and Jordan as the only Arab states to maintain relations with Israel .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is in Israel , at the start of a two-day push to revive the Middle East peace process .
Before her arrival , Ms. Rice said resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a top priority .
She also urged both sides to build on the recently-completed Israeli pullout from the Gaza Strip to reach a two-state solution to the decades-long conflict .
The U.S. diplomat is to address an Israeli think-tank later Sunday before meeting with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
She meets with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas Monday in the West Bank .
Earlier today in Saudi Arabia , Ms. Rice had talks with Saudi leaders on the war on terror and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
She later said both countries are united in fighting terrorism , and said both governments could do more to improve the image of the United States within the kingdom .
Belarus says it plans to raise transit fees later this month by more than 30 percent on Russian oil pumped through Belarusian territory to western Europe .
Just weeks ago Moscow more than doubled the price of natural gas sold to its western neighbor .
Authorities in Minsk say the Belarusian hike will take effect February 15 .
In an interview Tuesday with Reuters news agency , Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko - stung by the Russian price hikes - vowed to recover $ 5 billion in losses incurred since the Russian increases took effect .
At the height of the dispute , Russia briefly cut off oil supplies in Belarusian pipelines , after accusing Minsk of siphoning oil bound for western Europe .
The stand-off was resolved when Belarus revoked a transit tax it had imposed on Russian oil , and Moscow lowered oil fees it had demanded from Minsk .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder says his Social Democratic Party will probably form a so-called " Grand Coalition " with the main opposition Christian Democratic Union , after this month 's general election failed to produce a clear winner .
Mr. Schroeder spoke Tuesday at a forum on Europrean integration in Strasbourg , France .
He said he expects a stable government to emerge from exploratory talks between the two parties , but did not say what role , if any , he would hold in such a coalition .
The Social Democrats and their Greens Party coalition partner lost their majority in the September 18 vote .
The Christian Democrats , led by Angela Merkel , and their likely coalition partner , the liberal Free Democrats , also fell short of a majority .
Separately , the Greens elected Agriculture Minister Renate Kuenast and former party co-leader Fritz Kuhn to lead their parliamentary faction .
Ratners Group PLC , a fast-growing , acquisition-minded London-based jeweler , raised its price for Seattle-based specialty jeweler Weisfield 's Inc. to $ 57.50 a share , or $ 62.1 million , from $ 50 a share , or $ 55 million , after another concern said it would be prepared to outbid Ratners 's initial offer .
The other concern was n't identified .
Ratners 's chairman , Gerald Ratner , said the deal remains of " substantial benefit to Ratners . "
In London at mid-afternoon yesterday , Ratners 's shares were up 2 pence ( 1.26 cents ) , at 260 pence ( $ 1.64 ) .
The sweetened offer has acceptances from more than 50 % of Weisfield 's shareholders , and it is scheduled for completion by Dec. 10 .
The acquisition of 87-store Weisfield 's raises Ratners 's U.S. presence to 450 stores .
About 30 % of Ratners 's profit already is derived from the U.S.
A published report in the United States predicts international financial assistance for the Palestinian Authority could double if elections in the West Bank and Gaza take place on schedule next month , and if the Palestinians take steps toward resolving their conflict with Israel .
The New York Times estimates up to $ 8 billion in aid from the United States , Europe and Arab nations could go to the Palestinian Authority over the next four years if those conditions - successful elections and progress toward peace - are met .
The Palestinian Authority has been facing a severe financial crisis , primarily due to declining tax revenues , and the Palestinian economy has been paralyzed during the past four years of violence in the West Bank and Gaza .
Reporters Without Borders has expressed shock over a female television reporter 's murder in Afghanistan , and called on President Hamid Karzai to take concrete steps in support of press freedom .
Shaima Rezayee had presented a music program on the privately-run television channel Tolo TV , and was shot in the head in the Kabul neighborhood of Char Qala on Wednesday .
She was the first journalist to be killed in Afghanistan since the end of the war in 2001 .
The group is urging an independent investigation into the murder so that those responsible can be arrested and brought to trial .
Conservative Islamists in Afghanistan had been criticizing 24-year-old Ms. Rezayee 's music program as anti-Islamic .
Bowing to pressure from religious leaders , Tolo TV had fired her earlier this year .
Congo 's electoral commission has requested a delay in national elections that are scheduled for June .
The head of the commission said Thursday he has presented the request to parliament , which must approve any delay .
He did not say why the delay is necessary .
However the move was widely expected as preparations for the polls have fallen behind schedule .
The delay is in line with Congo 's peace accord , which allows up to two six-month delays in elections , the nation 's first since independence in 1960 .
Congo 's peace deal , signed in 2003 , ended a five-year war .
Earlier this year , concerns about a delay in the elections led to violent protests in Kinshasa .
Thursday , police were out in force on the streets of the capital to prevent any violence .
Somalia 's parliament has passed a no confidence motion against the prime minister and his cabinet , effectively dissolving the government .
Lawmakers said Saturday Prime Minister Mohamed Ali Gedi failed to respect a power-sharing deal when he named a cabinet that was not equally divided between Somalia 's ethnic groups .
They also said the prime minister violated the constitution by failing to seek a vote of confidence from lawmakers .
Somali President Abdullahi Yusef Ahmed will now have to appoint another prime minister .
The president was himself elected by the parliament in October .
He has promised to restore stability to Somalia , wracked by clan violence and lawlessness following the overthrow of the government 13 years ago .
Somalia 's parliament has been meeting in the Kenyan capital , Nairobi , due to security concerns at home .
Bangladeshi medical officials are struggling to treat the victims of a fire that has killed at least 114 people in the capital , Dhaka .
According to local news reports , the state-run Dhaka Medical College has admitted at least 100 people with burn injuries , since the huge fire destroyed several buildings in Dhaka 's densely-populated old section .
Bangladeshi officials said the blaze started Thursday night when an electrical transformer exploded .
Witnesses say chemicals inside shops worsened the fire as it spread through apartment buildings .
Narrow roads in the centuries-old Kayettuli neighborhood hampered rescue efforts , leaving many residents trapped inside the area 's tightly-packed buildings .
The Bangladeshi government has declared Saturday a national day of mourning .
The fire was the second deadly accident in Dhaka this week .
On Tuesday , a building collapsed , killing at least 25 people .
Coming to a cinema near you : the Iron Lady . Margaret Thatcher , prime minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990 , will reportedly be the subject of an upcoming film .
Set during the Falklands War , the film will cover the 17 days leading up to Britain 's 1982 conflict with Argentina .
Backed by London-based Pathe Productions , BBC Films , and DJ Films , the project has yet to be cast , and no director has been named .
Steven Frears ' film The Queen , which features an Oscar-winning performance from Helen Mirren as Queen Elizabeth II , has re-awakened interest in recent British history .
A previously-unknown group in Iraq has claimed responsibility for last week 's bomb attack on a Shi'ite funeral that killed at least 50 people and wounded 80 others .
In an internet statement Sunday , the group said it carried out the attack to demonstrate opposition to Shi'ites who are set to take control of Iraq 's new government this week .
Separately , U.S. officials say two American civilian security contractors have been killed and a third wounded in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad .
Meanwhile , Kurdish negotiators say they are nearing a deal with the dominant Shi'ite alliance on forming a coalition government .
Kurdish negotiator Fuad Masoum said the talks will resume Monday in Baghdad - two days before the Iraqi National Assembly convenes for the first time since January elections .
A SHIPWRECKED MAN , having been cast upon a certain shore , slept after his buffetings with the deep .
After a while he awoke , and looking upon the Sea , loaded it with reproaches .
He argued that it enticed men with the calmness of its looks , but when it had induced them to plow its waters , it grew rough and destroyed them .
The Sea , assuming the form of a woman , replied to him : " Blame not me , my good sir , but the winds , for I am by my own nature as calm and firm even as this earth ; but the winds suddenly falling on me create these waves , and lash me into fury . "
Turkish media reports say a suicide car bomber in the southern part of the country Tuesday killed himself and wounded at least nine police officers .
Officials and media reports from CNN-Turk television say the bomber detonated explosives after police stopped his vehicle at a checkpoint outside the port city of Mersin , on Turkey 's Mediterranean coast .
Some reports had said earlier that another suspect in the vehicle also was killed .
According to reports , police had been following the vehicle after receiving intelligence that said a bomber was preparing for an attack .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility .
Islamist extremists , Kurdish separatists and leftist militants have all carried out attacks in Turkey in the past .
Haiti hosts a donors conference Tuesday , hoping to secure at least $ 5 billion in pledges to help the impoverished Caribbean nation jump start its economy and make vital repairs to infrastructure .
Delegates at the conference will include representatives from the United States , European Union , and the Inter-American Development Bank .
Haitian leaders say building roads , revitalizing agriculture , and boosting education and health care services are their priority .
Haiti 's economic problems continue and living standards remain low more than two years after a rebellion that overthrew President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Sixty years ago , fifteen-year old Roman Ferencevych lived through the waning months of World War II in war-shattered Berlin , far from his native Ukraine .
After the war , he found himself in the United States -- a displaced person , a refugee , and an American soldier .
Here he shares his memories of that turbulent time .
The day the war ended in Germany , Hear Roman Ferencevych describe life in a Displaced Persons ' Camp
Roman Ferencevych talks about the goals of the Ukrainian Community in the U.S.
One person was killed and at least several others wounded in Mogadishu overnight as insurgents attacked three police stations .
Witnesses report grenade explosions and exchanges of gunfire around police stations in the Wadajir , Hodan , and Florence districts .
There were conflicting reports whether the person killed was an insurgent or a civilian hit by a stray bullet .
Such gunbattles have become a daily occurrence in the Somali capital as insurgents continue to battle the government and its Ethiopian allies .
A national peace conference organized by the government has shown no sign of reconciling Somalia 's warring clans and factions .
The Horn of Africa country has not had a stable central government since 1991 .
Talking about fashion instantly evokes in many people images of models strutting down the catwalk .
But the South Asian Student Association at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania recently took a different spin on fashion during Pakistan Awareness Week on campus .
VOA 's Ruth Reader reports for producer Imran Siddiqi .
The number of confirmed dead in Somalia from South Asia 's earthquake generated tsunami has risen to at least 142 people .
A spokesman for the Somali government , Yusuf Ismail Baribari , says relief agencies are rushing aid to communities along the northeastern shoreline .
The worst hit area is the Somali island of Hafun .
Most of the dead are believed to be fishermen who were in boats when huge waves struck the coastline on December 26 .
The Somali government says thousands in the region need immediate aid .
There are reports of acute diarrhea and concerns that outbreaks of cholera will follow .
The tsunami also took lives in Tanzania , Seychelles and Kenya .
NATO officials say a rocket attack in southern Afghanistan has killed a coalition soldier involved in the ongoing fight against the resurgent Taleban .
Officials say the rocket struck a military vehicle Tuesday , in Kandahar province .
There is no word on the NATO soldier 's nationality .
Separately , Afghan officials say Taleban militants attacked a police checkpoint in the eastern province of Khost late Monday .
Two militants and a police officer were killed .
NATO-led military forces are fighting alongside Afghan troops in their effort to repel Taleban insurgents fighting against the U.S.-backed Kabul government .
Attacks by the Taleban , including an increasing number of suicide bombings , have surged this year .
The extremist group was forced from power almost five years ago in an offensive led by the United States .
A pair of upsets have highlighted play at the Adelaide International men 's hardcourt tennis championships , with third-seeded Tommy Robredo of Spain and number four Mario Ancic of Croatia both losing .
Florent Serra of France needed three sets to eliminate Robredo , 7-6 , 3-6 , 6-3 on Wednesday , while Belgium 's Xavier Malisse topped Ancic , 3-6 , 6-3 , 7-6 in their second round match .
Serra will play seventh-seeded Jarkko Nieminen in the third round , after the Finnish player beat Germany 's Florian Mayer , 7-6 , 7-5 .
Top-seeded Lleyton Hewitt of Australia will play his second round match Thursday against Germany 's Philipp Kohlschreiber .
European naval forces have detained seven suspected pirates off the coast of Somalia .
The German Defense Ministry says pirates fired on one of its supply ships , the FSG Spessart , in the Gulf of Aden on Sunday .
It says the German ship returned fire and then chased down the pirates with the help of other vessels in the European Union 's anti-piracy mission .
The seven suspects are being held on a German frigate ( the Rheinland-Pfalz ) .
Somali pirates seized more than 40 ships during 2008 , receiving millions of dollars in ransom payments .
But the number of hijackings has dropped sharply in recent months , after the EU , the United States and other world powers began naval patrols in the waters near Somalia .
European Union officials say the 16 nations that use the euro face a recession this year , which will bring rising unemployment and growing government debts .
Officials say the economies will shrink by 1.9 % this year , while unemployment goes above 9 % .
The forecast is even gloomier than one issued in November .
Experts predict the EU economy will recover somewhat in the second half of this year , and resume growth in 2010 , but warn the outlook is uncertain .
European nations are trying to ease the impact of the recession by crafting stimulus packages that now total in the hundreds of billions of dollars , which will boost government deficits .
Three Palestinians have been killed and at least 14 others injured during an Israeli raid on a refugee camp in the Gaza Strip .
Witnesses say Israeli tanks opened fire as they entered the Khan Younis camp in southern Gaza early Friday , followed by bulldozers that razed several houses .
Israel said the raid was intended to destroy launching points for mortar and rocket attacks into nearby Jewish settlements .
An Israeli helicopter fired missiles at a Gaza building Thursday in Rafah .
Israeli military officials say the building housed a workshop used for weapons storage by the militant group Hamas .
Palestinians from the area , however , say it was a carpentry shop .
The latest violence comes amid an offer by Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to coordinate his Gaza troop withdrawal plan with a future Palestinian government .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian says information provided by Taipei helped Japan locate a Chinese nuclear submarine in Japanese waters last week .
Mr. Chen said Friday that Taiwan provided intelligence to Japan and the United States , alerting them to the intrusion .
He emphasized the threat from China , and the common interests among Japan , the United States and Taiwan in maintaining peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region .
Last week , Tokyo demanded an apology from Beijing after the intrusion into its southern waters , which set off a two-day high-seas chase .
Beijing initially refused to accept the protest or make an apology , saying it was still investigating the matter .
But earlier this week China expressed regret for the intrusion .
Chief U.N. war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte says Slobodan Milosevic secretly took medicines in his jail cell in what may have been a suicide attempt .
Del Ponte told France 's Le Monde newspaper Tuesday that Milosevic apparently decided to worsen his health in an attempt to get out of jail and go to Moscow for treatment or to take his own life .
She said she is waiting for blood test results to see what brought on the heart attack that killed Milosevic .
Del Ponte said Milosevic 's death is difficult to accept and that it dealt the war crimes tribunal a nasty blow .
But she said she wants to try fugitive former Bosnian Serb leaders Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic , saying the court is now in a coma and must come back to life .
Burmese officials have ordered about 80 HIV patients and staff to leave a care home in Rangoon after a visit there by democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The official reason given for the eviction was that the home , a wooden shelter operated by Phyu Phyu Tin , a member of Aung San Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy party , was in violation of Burmese law .
The eviction order came a day after Aung San Suu Kyi visited the clinic and called for more medical assistance for the shelter 's residents , which include children .
The Nobel laureate visited the clinic four days after she was freed from seven years of house arrest , when she pledged a " peaceful revolution " while seeking dialogue with the ruling generals .
About 200 Afghans have demonstrated in Kabul against a death sentence given to an Afghan reporter accused of blasphemy .
The protesters marched to the United Nations office in the capital Thursday , calling for the immediate release of Sayed Perwiz Kambakhsh .
An Afghan court sentenced the 23-year-old journalism student to death last week for defaming Islam .
He was detained in late October , 2007 for distributing articles about the role of women in Muslim society .
The case has attracted international attention with the United States and several human right groups expressing concern .
The Paris-based media rights group Reporters Without Borders Thursday said authorities should quickly reexamine the case .
It added that Kambakhsh and his family have been receiving death threats .
Under Islamic law stipulated in Afghanistan 's constitution , blasphemy is punishable by death .
But Afghan President Hamid Karzai has to approve any death sentences before they are carried out .
People around the world are celebrating the Christmas holiday Sunday , in both religious and secular settings .
Christians celebrate the holiday as the birth date of Jesus Christ .
They attend church , light ceremonial candles , and sing hymns to commemorate God 's coming to Earth in the form of a man .
Christmas is also celebrated as a secular , gift-giving holiday , making December one of the most lucrative times of the year for many Western retail stores .
President Bush Saturday made phone calls to several members of the U.S. military to wish them happy holidays .
On Christmas Eve , children anticipate the coming of Santa Claus , a mythical figure who flies around the world overnight to deliver presents to good children .
The North American Aerospace Defense Command , which guards against security threats in U.S. and Canadian airspace , provides updates on what it says is Santa 's progress across the globe .
Authorities in Saudi Arabia say a fourth French national has died of wounds suffered in an attack in northwestern Saudi Arabia .
Officials say a teenager died in a hospital Tuesday of wounds sustained when gunmen shot at a group of nine French nationals who had stopped along a road on Monday .
Three had died shortly after the attack .
A Saudi spokesman said the French nationals were residents of the Saudi kingdom who had been visiting historic sites .
Saudi Arabia has been battling al-Qaida militants in the kingdom , and the terrorist group has targeted Westerners in the past .
Chinese protesters chant anti-Japanese slogans as they march in Beijing 's Chinese police have warned against unauthorized anti-Japanese protests in the coming days after last week 's demonstrations turned violent .
A statement posted Friday on popular Web sites told people to place their faith in the Communist Party and express their patriotic passion in an orderly manner .
The statement noted that public demonstrations require police permission and warned that violators could face punishment .
Notices spread by activists on Web sites and by mobile phones are calling for more protests in the next few days in Beijing , Shanghai and other cities .
The official announcement comes after violent anti-Japanese marches in Beijing , Guangzhou and Shenzhen this past week against Japan 's bid for a permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council and Tokyo 's alleged downplaying of wartime atrocities .
The former majority leader in the U.S. House of Representatives turned himself in to authorities Thursday to face charges of money laundering and conspiracy .
Congressman Tom DeLay reported to a sheriff 's office in Houston , Texas , where he was booked , photographed and fingerprinted before being released on $ 10,000 bond .
Mr. DeLay had been expected to appear for booking after a Texas state court issued a warrant for his arrest on Wednesday .
The court 's move was a formality under Texas law , which requires that an arrest warrant be issued for anyone indicted on a felony charge .
The Republican congressman has denied the charges against him , saying they are politically motivated .
Mr. DeLay has kept his Texas congressional seat but has stepped down as Republican leader under a party rule requiring him to give up the post if charged with a felony .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says he wants the U.S. military to close the detention facility for terrorism suspects at the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Mr. Blair told lawmakers he hopes a judicial process could be put in place so the detention center could close .
His comments came during his weekly question-and-answer session in parliament .
The prime minister stressed that the detention facility was opened under extraordinary circumstances , following the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States that killed nearly 3,000 people .
He said the facility housed people fighting U.S. and British troops in Afghanistan .
About 500 detainees are being held at Guantanamo , suspected of links to al-Qaida or the Taleban .
Human rights groups and the United Nations have called for its closure .
U.S. officials insist detainees there are treated humanely .
Millions of Americans could lose their homes this year and in 2009 as foreclosures across the United States are occurring at the highest rate in decades .
At the beginning of the year , the number of homes facing foreclosure jumped more than 57 percent compared to a year ago .
The foreclosure crisis is worsening despite ongoing efforts by some lenders and the federal government to help borrowers manage the mortgage payments on their homes .
VOA 's Chris Simkins reports on how one organization is helping people save their homes .
Palestinian officials say Israeli forces operating in the Gaza Strip killed five Palestinians Monday .
The officials say two of the dead were from Hamas and two were from Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ' security guard .
They say the fifth victim was a civilian .
Israeli forces entered the Gaza City district on Saturday as part of an operation against militants .
Since then , Israeli troops have killed several suspected militants and wounded several people , including two journalists .
In a separate incident Monday , Hamas gunmen shot and killed a Palestinian motorist in southern Gaza when he refused to stop at a Hamas roadblock .
Human Rights Watch has called for the investigation of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir 's role in crimes against humanity committed in his country 's Darfur region .
In a report , the group listed 20 other government , military , and Janjaweed militia members who should also be investigated .
The report is being submitted to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court which is scheduled to brief the United Nations Security Council Monday on the situation in Darfur .
A Human Rights Watch official Peter Takirambudde , HRW Africa Director , says senior Sudanese officials must be held accountable for the ethnic cleansing in Darfur .
Since the war erupted in 2003 between rebels and government-backed militia , an estimated 180,000 people have died , and two million others have been displaced .
Bird flu experts from U.N. agencies are in Nigeria to assist in efforts to contain the lethal strain of the virus .
Officials from the World Health Organization and Food and Agriculture Organization have joined local authorities to inform farmers and others about the potential risks .
A highly pathogenic version of the H5N1 strain was recently discovered in birds on a farm in the northern state of Kaduna .
The case was the first of the lethal strain of bird flu reported on the African continent .
Health officials are awaiting test results from two children in Kaduna who recently became sick to determine if they are Africa 's first human cases of bird flu .
Venezuelan station Radio Caracas Television ( RCTV ) is now being shown on cable and satellite after being forced off the air by President Hugo Chavez in May .
The opposition-aligned TV station began its new programming Monday .
The chief of RCTV told a news conference last week that the station 's return is a victory for Venezuelan people who want its programs .
Mr. Chavez refused to renew RCTV 's license to broadcast on a public frequency for allegedly backing a failed coup against him in 2002 .
Other national private networks also opposed Mr. Chavez , but their criticism of the government is now softer and they have retained their licenses .
Rescuers in western Nepal continue to search for more than 100 people missing since a suspension bridge collapsed .
Local authorities say rescue workers recovered 14 bodies , including children , from the icy waters of the Bheri River in the remote Surkhet district .
They say at least 32 seriously injured people were taken to hospitals , and one person died on the way .
Dozens more with light injuries were treated at the scene Tuesday and allowed to go home .
Police say scores of people managed to swim to safety , but many more may have been swept downstream .
Authorities believe hundreds of people were crossing the bridge to attend a religious festival when its support cables snapped under the weight .
Hundreds of Nigerians crippled by polio have staged a rally in the northern city of Kano to urge parents to vaccinate their children against the disease .
The chairman of a polio victims association in Kano says many parents in the area have been slow to respond to international immunization programs .
Muslim leaders in northern Nigeria suspended polio immunizations in late 2003 , claiming the U.N. health agency had supplied a vaccine that would cause sterility .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) says the ban , which lasted a year , set Nigeria back in its efforts to fight polio .
Nearly 500 cases of polio have been reported in the country this year , the most in the world by far .
The suspension in Kano was also blamed for causing polio to spread in a number of African nations and as far away as Indonesia .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan begins a visit to Haiti Wednesday , to talk with political leaders about ways to improve security across the country .
The U.N. says Mr. Annan will meet with President Rene Preval , other top officials and members of the U.N. Stabilization Mission in Haiti .
The number of kidnappings by armed groups has started to surge after a period of calm following the election of Mr. Preval .
The U.N. says trafficking in illegal drugs and weapons remains a major problem .
In a report to the Security Council Tuesday , Mr. Annan called for the U.N. police force in Haiti to be strengthened with experts in counterkidnapping and anti-gang operations to better support the Haitian National Police .
Following his visit to Haiti , Mr. Annan will travel to the Dominican Republic , where he is scheduled to meet with President Leonel Fernandez and members of the nation 's Congress and Supreme Court .
A suicide car bomb exploded in southern Iraq Sunday outside an apartment building used by a Shi'ite militia , killing at least one person and wounding several others .
The attack in Basra , Iraq 's second city , apparently was aimed at the Iranian-backed Badr Brigade militia .
News reports say Basra 's former governor Hassan al-Rashid , a senior militia leader , escaped unharmed .
Basra has been hit by several recent bombings ahead of next Saturday 's ( October 15 ) vote on a new national constitution .
Authorities in Baghdad say security will heightened nationwide for the referendum , with curfews and a ban on car travel in many areas .
Iraq 's borders will be closed to deter infiltration by insurgents , and coalition forces will protect polling places .
Ukrainian emergency officials say five people have been killed in the crash of a small private passenger plane near Kyiv .
The Beechcraft turboprop was on a flight Sunday from the Czech Republic .
Witnesses say the plane crashed and exploded in a field just short of the runway at Zhulyany airport near Kyiv .
No one on the ground was hurt .
All five victims were Czech .
Investigators say initial findings point to human error as the cause of the crash .
Russian authorities and witnesses say a suspected bomb exploded Sunday in a McDonald 's restaurant on St. Petersburg 's main street , injuring six people .
The blast shattered windows and caused part of the restaurant 's ceiling to cave in .
None of the injuries are said to be serious .
The blast occurred along Nevsky Prospekt .
Police closed down part of St. Petersburg 's main street while they carried it their investigation .
A car bombing of a Moscow McDonald 's by Muslim extremists in 2002 killed one person and wounded seven .
A leading figure in Latin jazz music , Ray Barretto , has died .
The Grammy-winning percussionist , known as " Hard Hands " for his work on the conga drums , died Friday in the northeastern U.S. state of New Jersey .
He was 76 .
His family did not give a cause of death , but he underwent heart bypass surgery earlier this year .
Barretto was raised in the United States by Puerto Rican immigrants .
In a career that spanned more than four decades , Barretto played with such jazz greats as Dizzy Gillespie and Tito Puente .
He won a Grammy with Cuban salsa singer Celia Cruz in 1990 , for a single called Rhythm in the Heart .
His latest album , Time Was - Time Is , was nominated for a Grammy this year for Best Latin Jazz Album .
North Korea says it has sent its top diplomat to Russia , amid a flurry of attempts to ease tensions on the Korean peninsula .
The North 's state Korean Central News Agency said in a one-sentence dispatch that Foreign Minister Pak Ui-Chun departed for Moscow .
The article provided no further details .
Pak told Russia 's Interfax news agency Friday that Pyongyang felt justified in building a nuclear defense to ward off threats from South Korea and the U.S. , which he accused of conducting a policy of hostility and confrontation .
Russia is a member of the six nations attempting to bring a halt to North Korea 's nuclear program .
The six-party talks also include the two Koreas , China , Japan and the United States .
Palestinian medical workers say two gunmen with the Islamic militant group Hamas have been killed in an Israeli air strike in the southern Gaza Strip .
Hamas says Israeli aircraft Saturday struck one of the group 's military posts near the town of Khan Younis .
It says the two dead gunmen belonged to Hamas ' military wing ( Ezzedin al-Qassam ) , and that four of its members were wounded in the attack .
The Israeli army confirmed the air strike .
Israel conducts air strikes and land operations in the Gaza Strip in an effort to stop Palestinian militants from firing rockets into southern Israel .
Citigroup , one of the largest financial institutions in the United States , said Tuesday it lost nearly $ 10 billion in the last few months of 2007 .
The bank says its assets have shrunk by more than $ 18 billion because of huge investments in the troubled subprime mortgage sector .
The company says it will layoff another 4,200 employees to save money .
Citi is turning to outside investors to replenish capital , raising more than $ 14 billion from investors in Singapore , Kuwait , Saudi Arabia and elsewhere .
Meantime , Merrill Lynch , the largest brokerage , is suffering from similar problems and raising about $ 6.6 billion from investors in Japan , Kuwait and South Korea .
The economy is a mixture of subsistence agriculture , an industrial sector based largely on oil and support services , and government spending .
Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the economy , providing a major share of government revenues and exports .
In the early 1980s , rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the government to finance large-scale development projects with GDP growth averaging 5 % annually , one of the highest rates in Africa .
Characterized by budget problems and overstaffing , the government has mortgaged a substantial portion of its oil earnings through oil-backed loans that have contributed to a growing debt burden and chronic revenue shortfalls .
Economic reform efforts have been undertaken with the support of international organizations , notably the World Bank and the IMF .
However , the reform program came to a halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted .
Denis SASSOU-Nguesso , who returned to power when the war ended in October 1997 , publicly expressed interest in moving forward on economic reforms and privatization and in renewing cooperation with international financial institutions .
Economic progress was badly hurt by slumping oil prices and the resumption of armed conflict in December 1998 , which worsened the republic 's budget deficit .
The current administration presides over an uneasy internal peace and faces difficult economic challenges of stimulating recovery and reducing poverty .
The drop in oil prices during the global crisis reduced oil revenue by about 30 % , but the subsequent recovery of oil prices has boosted the economy 's GDP and near-term prospects .
In March 2006 , the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) approved Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) treatment for Congo , receiving $ 1.9 billion in debt relief under the program in 2010 .
The area of the Republic of Cyprus under government control has a market economy dominated by the service sector , which accounts for nearly four-fifths of GDP .
Tourism , financial services , and real estate are the most important sectors .
Erratic growth rates over the past decade reflect the economy 's reliance on tourism , the profitability of which often fluctuates with political instability in the region and economic conditions in Western Europe .
Nevertheless , the economy in the area under government control has grown at a rate well above the EU average since 2000 .
Cyprus joined the European Exchange Rate Mechanism ( ERM2 ) in May 2005 and adopted the euro as its national currency on 1 January 2008 .
An aggressive austerity program in the preceding years , aimed at paving the way for the euro , helped turn a soaring fiscal deficit ( 6.3 % in 2003 ) into a surplus of 1.2 % in 2008 , and reduced inflation to 4.7 % .
This prosperity came under pressure in 2009 , as construction and tourism slowed in the face of reduced foreign demand triggered by the ongoing global financial crisis .
Although Cyprus lagged behind its EU peers in showing signs of stress from the global crisis , the economy tipped into recession in 2009 , contracting by 1.8 % , and has been slow to bounce back since , posting an anemic growth rate of 0.6 % in 2010 .
In addition , the budget deficit is on the rise and reached 5.3 % of GDP in 2010 , a violation of the EU 's budget deficit criteria of no more than 3 % of GDP .
In response to the country 's deteriorating finances , Nicosia is promising to implement measures to cut the cost of the state payroll , curb tax evasion , and revamp social benefits .
However , it has been slow to act , lacking a consensus in parliament and among the social partners for its proposed measures .
Venezuela 's foreign ministry has rejected Colombian charges that Venezuelan President Hugh Chavez is linked to the rebel group , FARC .
Venezuelan Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro also said he does not recognize documents Colombia says prove the charges .
He called the documents inconsistent and incomprehensible .
But Colombian authorities say the documents show that Mr. Chavez planned to give FARC rebels $ 300 million .
They say the documents were found in the computer of FARC leader Raul Reyes during a cross-border raid in Ecuador last month .
Reyes was killed in that raid .
Venezuela and Ecuador responded to the raid by taking diplomatic action against Colombia and sending troops to the border with Colombia .
The leaders of all three countries have since said they have settled the crisis .
Colombia apologized for the raid but called it a necessary part of the struggle against the FARC .
China 's agriculture minister is warning of a possible massive bird flu outbreak as the country announced two new human cases of the deadly H5N1 flu strain .
China 's state-owned media report Agriculture Minister Du Qinglin said authorities must be on " high alert " and step up efforts to control the disease .
He says China culled 22.5 million birds last year to stem the spread of the virus .
Citing a Health Ministry statement , the Xinhua news agency said Saturday a nine-year-old girl from Zhejiang province and a 26-year-old woman from Anhui province tested positive for the H5N1 virus , and are in critical condition .
In France , President Jacques Chirac is urging people not to panic after confirmation of the deadly strain of bird flu at a turkey farm near Lyon .
An official of the country 's agricultural union , Christine Lambert , expressed concern the development will hurt French exports .
Delegations from Somalia 's interim government and opposition groups are meeting in Djibouti Saturday for United Nations brokered peace talks .
Two explosions along the road to the airport outside the Somali capital , Mogadishu , Friday briefly delayed President Abdullahi Yousuf and Prime Minister Hussein Nur Adde as they prepared to fly to the meeting .
After the explosions Ethiopian backed government forces opened fire on insurgents killing at least two civilians .
During three days of meetings in Djibouti , the groups will try to finalize details of a peace agreement worked out in June between the Somali government and the opposition Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia .
Somalia has not had a stable government since 1991 .
Fighting between government forces and insurgents has killed thousands of Somalis and displaced more than a million others .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has reviewed the security situation in Indian Kashmir on the second and final day of his visit to the disputed territory .
Officials say top security commanders briefed Mr. Singh Thursday in Jammu , the winter capital of Indian Kashmir .
They say the commanders told him that infiltration of militants from neighboring Pakistan has gone down sharply in the past year .
Muslim militants opposed to Indian rule have staged an insurgency in Kashmir for the past 15 years .
On Wednesday , Mr. Singh said he is ready to meet with anyone who wants to end violence in Kashmir .
But he said he will not accept any Pakistani proposal that involves redrawing the line of control that separates Indian- from Pakistani-controlled Kashmir .
The two South Asian neighbors each claim the entire territory .
India withdrew 1,000 troops from Kashmir Wednesday , with more expected to follow .
Pakistan called the move a positive step .
Tens of thousands of Nepalese have marched through the capital , Kathmandu demanding an end to years of violence between Maoist rebels and government security forces .
Organizers of the peace rally said Monday they want to mount pressure on the government and the rebels to resume peace talks .
Students and people from all walks of life carried banners and chanted slogans demanding an immediate end to the Maoist rebellion that has claimed more than 10,000 lives since it began in 1996 .
The rebels want to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
The rally was held as a crippling Maoist-called transport blockade of the Kathmandu valley entered its fifth day .
The rebels are demanding information about their missing activists who they say disappeared while in custody .
North Korea says its National Security Service has arrested several of its citizens who were working as spies for a foreign country .
The official Korean Central News Agency reports Wednesday that a foreign espionage agency coerced the North Koreans with money , sex and blackmail .
Several foreigners were also arrested .
The news report says the agents had posed as businessmen and used cameras , and global positioning systems to take pictures and draw maps of key military facilities .
North Korea says the spies also were asked to collect information on military and state secrets and spread the ideas of freedom and democracy .
It did not identify the foreign country or the spy agency .
This is the first time in recent years that North Korea has announced the arrest of spies .
Voters in Taiwan are heading to the polls for parliamentary elections .
The election could redefine Taiwan 's troubled relationship with mainland China .
At stake in Saturday 's election is control of Taiwan 's 225-seat legislature .
Taiwan and China split in 1949 after a civil war .
Beijing considers the island its territory and says Taiwanese moves toward independence would provoke a war .
The election pits a pro-independence coalition , led by President Chen Shui-bian 's Democratic Progressive Party , against the Kuomintang and its allies , who favor improving relations with Beijing .
DPP Legislator Hsiao Bi-khim says the election is too close to call .
" But President Chen is fairly confident that we can win at least close to a majority in this election , " he says .
Polls close at four p.m. and results are expected a few hours later .
Humanitarian agencies report more than 50 people have been killed in floods in Pakistan brought on by heavy monsoon rains that began earlier this month .
The Red Cross says 50,000 people have been affected in the worst hit areas in the province of Baluchistan .
The Pakistani government and relief organizations are pledging food and supplies to help those displaced by the flooding .
But there are concerns that worsening weather conditions could hamper those relief efforts .
The leader of Lebanon 's parliamentary majority has accused Syria and Iran of seeking to impose a political and terrorist presence in Lebanon .
Saad al-Hariri made his remarks in a speech Thursday to party members and supporters .
He also called on supporters to attend a rally next week marking the third anniversary of the assassination of his father , former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri , who was killed in a car bombing in Beirut on February 14 , 2005 .
Several other anti-Syrian political figures in Lebanon have since been assassinated , but Syria has denied involvement in the killings .
Lebanon is facing a crisis as the country 's political factions struggle to resolve their differences and elect a new president .
The parliamentary vote for a new president has been postponed 13 times and is now scheduled for Monday .
Lebanon has been without a president since November 23 , when the term of pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud expired .
I 'm sorry but my answering machine is out of order .
I am leaving a broken CD player in its place .
It ca n't take messages either .
In fact , it ca n't even play you a nice tune while you wait to not leave a message .
Argentina and Spain have agreed to pursue a strategic alliance to strengthen political and economic ties .
Argentine President Nestor Kirchner and visiting Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero signed the agreement Tuesday in Buenos Aires .
Earlier this week , Mr. Zapatero met with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Brasilia .
The two said they plan to strengthen cooperation in social development , construction projects and other fields .
For the last leg of his South American trip , Mr. Zapatero is scheduled to fly to Chile Wednesday to meet with President Ricardo Lagos .
Thailand 's military installed government Friday announced a proposal to lift martial law in 11 of 35 provinces .
But the government proposes to place new restrictions on three provinces that border Laos .
Former head of the military government , Sonthi Boonyaratglin , told reporters that martial law will remain in regions that are prone to drug problems .
Many of the restricted provinces also supported the former political party of ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra .
Thai prosecutors flew to England Friday to discuss the possibility of extraditing Mr. Thaksin on corruption charges .
Last month , Thailand 's supreme court suspended a case against Mr. Thaksin and his wife until they appear in court .
Prosecutors charge the couple with illegally influencing a Bangkok real estate deal in 2003 .
The two have been living in self-imposed exile in England since Mr. Thaksin was ousted in a coup last year .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Washington is concerned about reports of a Chinese government crackdown on dissidents ahead of President Bush 's visit .
Ms. Rice told reporters in Beijing Sunday the United States would strongly raise its concerns with Beijing .
She says U.S. officials will seek clarification on the matter , and will make clear " open societies societies allow people to express themselves . "
The French news agency ( AFP ) says Chinese authorities have recently detained or placed under house arrest at least a dozen dissidents and activists .
Secretary Rice also says Washington is disappointed in China 's lack of progress to a request made in September for action on specific human rights cases .
The secretary says the issue of human rights in China will be a long conversation over a long period of time .
Landlocked Paraguay has a market economy distinguished by a large informal sector , featuring re-export of imported consumer goods to neighboring countries , as well as the activities of thousands of microenterprises and urban street vendors .
A large percentage of the population , especially in rural areas , derives its living from agricultural activity , often on a subsistence basis .
Because of the importance of the informal sector , accurate economic measures are difficult to obtain .
On a per capita basis , real income has stagnated at 1980 levels .
The economy grew rapidly between 2003 and 2008 as growing world demand for commodities combined with high prices and favorable weather to support Paraguay 's commodity-based export expansion .
Paraguay is the sixth largest soy producer in the world .
Drought hit in 2008 , reducing agricultural exports and slowing the economy even before the onset of the global recession .
The economy fell 3.8 % in 2009 , as lower world demand and commodity prices caused exports to contract .
The government reacted by introducing fiscal and monetary stimulus packages .
Growth resumed at a 14.5 % level in 2010 , the highest in South America .
Political uncertainty , corruption , limited progress on structural reform , and deficient infrastructure are the main obstacles to growth .
Switzerland is a peaceful , prosperous , and modern market economy with low unemployment , a highly skilled labor force , and a per capita GDP among the highest in the world .
Switzerland 's economy benefits from a highly developed service sector , led by financial services , and a manufacturing industry that specializes in high-technology , knowledge-based production .
The Swiss have brought their economic practices largely into conformity with the EU 's , in order to enhance their international competitiveness , but some trade protectionism remains , particularly for its small agricultural sector .
The global financial crisis and resulting economic downturn put Switzerland in a recession in 2009 as global export demand stalled .
The Swiss National Bank during this period effectively implemented a zero-interest rate policy in a bid to boost the economy and prevent appreciation of the franc .
Switzerland 's economy grew by 2.7 % in 2010 , when Bern implemented a third fiscal stimulus program , but its prized banking sector has recently faced significant challenges .
The country 's largest banks suffered sizable losses in 2008 - 09 , leading its largest bank to accept a government rescue deal in late 2008 .
Switzerland has also come under increasing pressure from individual neighboring countries , the EU , the US , and international institutions to reform its banking secrecy laws .
Consequently , the government agreed to conform to OECD regulations on administrative assistance in tax matters , including tax evasion .
The government has renegotiated its double taxation agreements with numerous countries , including the US , to incorporate the OECD standard , and it is working with Germany and the UK to resolve outstanding issues , particularly the possibility of imposing taxes on bank deposits held by foreigners .
Parliament passed the first five double-taxation agreements , including that with the US , in March 2010 .
The agreement with the US awaits US Senate approval .
In 2009 , Swiss financial regulators ordered the country 's largest bank to reveal at Washington 's behest the names of US account-holders suspected of using the bank to commit tax fraud .
These steps will have a lasting impact on Switzerland 's long history of bank secrecy .
The U.S. military in Iraq says its warplanes have bombed a suspected al-Qaida safehouse in the western part of the country , near the Syrian border .
The air strike , early Thursday , specifically targeted what the military said was a " known bombmaking cell leader , " Abu Mohammad , who was also believed to have participated in tribal fighting in the area .
It was not clear if he was confirmed killed in the strike near the town of Husaybah .
In other news , rescued American hostage Roy Hallums is reported in good health and is expected to return to the United States within days .
The U.S. military says within three hours of obtaining information on where he was being held from an Iraqi detainee they launched a successful mission Wednesday to free him .
A U.N. aid official in Gaza says dozens of masked gunmen have attacked a U.N. summer camp .
A U.N. spokesman said the attackers assaulted a guard , burned tents and vandalized bathrooms Sunday at the camp in eastern Gaza .
The armed men also left behind a note pierced with several bullets , threatening to kill the U.N. Relief and Works Agency director , John Ging .
The summer camp offers arts , sports and other activities to some 250,000 Gaza children .
There were no claim of responsibility for the attack .
Some extremist Islamic groups in Gaza oppose the camps .
Gaza 's Hamas police are investigating the incident .
Since independence in 1976 , per capita output in this Indian Ocean archipelago has expanded to roughly seven times the pre-independence , near-subsistence level , moving the island into the upper-middle income group of countries .
Growth has been led by the tourist sector , which employs about 30 % of the labor force and provides more than 70 % of hard currency earnings , and by tuna fishing .
In recent years , the government has encouraged foreign investment to upgrade hotels and other services .
At the same time , the government has moved to reduce the dependence on tourism by promoting the development of farming , fishing , and small-scale manufacturing .
GDP grew about 7-8 % per year in 2006 - 07 , driven by tourism and a boom in tourism-related construction .
The Seychelles rupee was allowed to depreciate in 2006 after being overvalued for years and fell by 10 % in the first 9 months of 2007 .
Despite these actions , the Seychelles economy has struggled to maintain its gains and in 2008 suffered from food and oil price shocks , a foreign exchange shortage , high inflation , large financing gaps , and the global recession .
In July 2008 the government defaulted on a Euro amortizing note worth roughly US $ 80 million , leading to a downgrading of Seychelles credit rating , but in October 2010 the EU approved a $ 2.9 million grant as part of a larger four-year program for Seychelles .
In response to Seychelles successful implementation of tighter monetary and fiscal policies , the IMF upgraded Seychelles to a three-year extended fund facility ( EFF ) of $ 31 million in December 2009 .
In 2008 , GDP fell more than 1 % due to declining tourism , but the economy recovered in 2009 - 10 with a notable increase in tourist numbers for 2010 .
Russia - one of the world 's largest wheat exporters - has imposed a ban on grain exports due to an extended drought , wildfires and record-high temperatures ravaging much of the country .
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin ordered the ban Thursday , as part of a push to control domestic prices for wheat products and livestock feed .
The ban begins August 15 and is scheduled to end in December .
Russia slashed its grain harvest forecast last week by 20 percent , as drought and high temperatures spawned hundreds of wildfires that destroyed entire villages and at least one key military base near Moscow .
Fifty people have been found dead in the smoldering ruins of rural homes in western and central Russia .
Temperatures in Moscow have hovered near 40 C for more than a week , as parched residents battle choking smog and smoke from peat fires burning just outside the city .
The armed Basque separatist group , ETA , says it is willing to take part in peace talks with the Spanish government .
But Sunday 's statement did not mention whether it will lay down arms as demanded by the government as a precondition for any talks .
The outlawed group 's statement backed the recent peace initiative its political wing , Batasuna , presented to the Spanish parliament that would virtually grant independence to the country 's northern Basque region .
Opponents say the plan would open the way for secession by other areas of Spain .
In ETA 's statement today it claimed responsibility for a series of attacks in recent months , but the it denied involvement in last month 's bomb hoax at Real Madrid 's soccer stadium .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths in its more than 30 year campaign for an independent Basque homeland .
U.S. consumer spending surged in January , far more than economists had expected .
A report from the Commerce Department Tuesday showed spending up 2.3 percent , the strongest gain in more than a year , and more than double what analysts expected .
Experts watch consumer spending closely because consumer demand drives about two-thirds of the U.S. economy , which is the world 's biggest .
Analysts predict the spending surge will encourage the U.S. central bank to continue its campaign of gradually raising interest rates to fend off inflation .
We will get another picture of the U.S. economy on Wednesday when the Federal Reserve 's new Chairman , Ben Bernanke , is scheduled to deliver a report to Congress .
The United Nations mediator for Kosovo , Martti Ahtisaari , has met with top officials in Belgrade for talks on the future of the Serbian province .
The discussions with Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica Tuesday come one week after the first round of international talks on the future of Kosovo .
The U.N.-sponsored talks in Vienna are set to resume March 17 in an effort to set the guidelines for negotiations on resolving the status of the province .
Meanwhile , the top U.N. official in Kosovo , Soren Jessen-Petersen , expressed confidence that the talks will lead to a resolution by the end of the year .
He also said he met NATO officials in Brussels who have promised to ensure security for the ethnic Serbian minority in Kosovo throughout status talks .
The region 's ethnic Albanian majority is pressing for independence from Serbia -- a demand Serbs strongly oppose .
A former Yugoslav army chief of staff has pleaded not guilty to 13 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity before the United Nations tribunal in The Hague .
General Momcilo Perisic appeared in court Wednesday to face charges that troops under his command attacked Zagreb , the Croatian capital , and committed atrocities during the Bosnian conflict between 1992 and 1995 .
The charges include the massacre of more than 7,000 Muslim men and boys by Bosnian Serb troops following their capture of the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica .
General Perisic surrendered to the court Monday .
He said last week that appearing before the tribunal was the best way to defend his honor and the reputation of the army .
A suicide bombing Saturday in Turkey killed at least four people riding a minibus to a beach in an Aegean seacoast resort town .
Injured foreign tourist is carried to ambulance after explosion in Kusadasi , Saturday Authorities in Kusadasi , southeast of Izmir , say the blast wounded 14 people , several of whom are in critical condition .
Three of the dead were believed to be foreign tourists .
One Turkish account says the bombing was carried out by a woman , but there is no word yet on who plotted the explosion .
Several recent attacks in Turkey have been claimed by Kurdish separatist rebels , including TAK guerrillas linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party , PKK .
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the attack was the work of terrorists , but he did not blame any specific group .
Wildlife workers in New Zealand have shot dozens of whales that beached on the country 's South Island .
Officials say a rescue operation had become too dangerous .
Forty-nine pilot whales came ashore since Saturday in a remote region known as Farewell Spit .
Eight of them died on the beaches .
The remaining 41 whales were spread over a wide area , more than a kilometer from the shore .
A New Zealand conservation official said it was hopeless to try refloating the whales because of rough seas .
He said wildlife officers shot the whales to prevent them from suffering a long and painful death .
It was the second major stranding of whales in the area in recent weeks .
Volunteers managed to refloat more than 100 whales that beached in the earlier incident .
Al-Qaida 's front group in Iraq has claimed responsibility for a string of attacks on Baghdad 's Shi'ite districts this week that left at least 64 dead and 360 wounded .
In a statement posted Friday on a militant website , the Islamic State of Iraq is threatening more attacks on the country 's Shi'ite majority .
The statement says the assault Tuesday on Shi'ite civilians at restaurants and cafes across the capital was " the first day of many bloody days to come . "
The Islamic State of Iraq is an umbrella group that includes al-Qaida in Iraq and other Sunni insurgent factions .
The group this week also threatened more attacks on Christians , after it took responsibility for a shocking siege at a Baghdad church during Sunday Mass that left 58 people dead .
A U.S. military helicopter has crashed during an anti-militant operation in southern Afghanistan , killing its five-member American crew .
The U.S. military says the Chinook aircraft went down early Sunday in Zabul province shortly after dropping off troops involved in the mission .
A U.S. military spokesman , Colonel Jim Yonts , says the cause of the crash is under investigation , and that troops are at the scene providing security for recovery operation .
A Taleban spokesman , Abdul Latif Hakimi , claimed responsibility for shooting down the aircraft , but the U.S. military says there is no indication hostile fire was involved .
Two other U.S. Chinooks crashed in Afghanistan earlier this year .
One of the large , twin-rotor aircraft was shot down in June , killing all 16 Americans aboard .
Another Chinook crashed in a sandstorm in April , killing 15 American troops and three civilians .
Palestinian officials say Israeli troops shot and killed a Palestinian near a checkpoint in the West Bank Sunday .
They say the Israeli soldiers opened fire on the man 's vehicle when it tried to bypass a checkpoint near the city of Nablus .
Three other Palestinians in the vehicle were wounded .
Meanwhile , Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh condemned Israel 's arrest of Deputy Prime Minister Nasser al-Shaer , a top official of the Hamas organization .
Israeli forces raided Shaer 's home in the West Bank early Saturday and took him away for questioning .
An Israeli spokesman says Shaer was detained because he is a member of Hamas , which won Palestinian elections early this year but is considered a terrorist group by Israel , the United States and the European Union .
The French annexed various Polynesian island groups during the 19th century .
In September 1995 , France stirred up widespread protests by resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll after a three-year moratorium .
The tests were suspended in January 1996 .
In recent years , French Polynesia 's autonomy has been considerably expanded .
President Bush 's wife , Laura , has announced four new African countries will be added to a U.S.-backed initiative to control malaria on the continent .
Speaking in Washington Thursday Mrs. Bush said the United States will be a partner in the initiative with Malawi , Mozambique , Rwanda , and Senegal .
She said the program will help provide the countries with anti-malaria drugs and long-lasting mosquito nets , and help them conduct spraying procedures to kill mosquitoes .
President Bush unveiled the $ 1.2 billion initiative last year .
Tanzania , Uganda and Angola are already part of the five-year plan .
The U.N. says 3,000 children a day die of malaria in Africa .
To help lead the fight against the illness , President Bush has appointed the first U.S. Malaria Coordinator , Timothy Ziemer .
Ziemer , a retired U.S. Navy rear admiral , was previously executive director of World Relief , a private American disaster relief organization .
Officials in the eastern European nation of Slovakia say two wild birds found dead appear to have carried the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Slovakian Agriculture Minister Zsolt Simon said Thursday , the strain was detected in a white grebe found in the capital , Bratislava , and in a peregrine falcon found in Gabcikovo , at the border with Hungary .
He said samples from the birds have been sent to the European Union reference laboratory in Britain .
Slovakia is the latest European Union nation to confirm H5N1 cases .
The strain has already been confirmed in France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Slovenia , Italy and Austria .
Austrian officials Wednesday reported the first European Union case of the deadly disease in poultry .
Bird flu has killed 92 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Firefighters in the western U.S. state of California are trying to contain more than 1,400 wildfires that have been burning for more than a week .
State emergency officials say the fire is centered in the state 's northern region where 140,000 hectares have already burned .
Officials say more than 50 properties have been destroyed , while another 7,000 homes remain under threat .
So far no deaths have been reported , however , health officials have raised concerns over poor air quality .
Some 1,800 people are working to contain the blaze with the help of at least 100 water-dropping helicopters .
On Saturday , President Bush declared a state of emergency for California and ordered federal aid to assist in firefighting efforts .
California is frequently hit by wildfires due to its arid climate and hot , dry winds .
Last year , fires destroyed more than 200,000 hectares and some 2,000 homes in southern California .
Britain 's Prince Charles and his new wife , Camilla , have begun a week-long tour of the United States with a visit to the site of the World Trade Center in New York City .
Television reports say few onlookers turned out for a glimpse of the Prince of Wales and his longtime companion , the Duchess of Cornwall , whom he married earlier this year .
Prince Charles and Camilla are expected Tuesday to dedicate a memorial garden for British victims of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
On Wednesday they travel to Washington to visit President and Mrs. Bush at the White House .
Friday , the royal couple will visit New Orleans to meet with victims of Hurricane Katrina , which devastated the Gulf Coast in August .
Opinion polls indicate American interest in the trip falls far short of the prince 's 1985 visit with his first wife , the late Princess Diana .
Members of the Philippine Senate have urged President Gloria Arroyo to pressure Burma 's military government to free pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
All 23 members of the Senate signed a resolution urging the action Wednesday .
It is nonbinding , meaning it only serves to express the lawmakers ' opinions .
The resolution also opposes Burma 's takeover of the chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations next year as scheduled .
It says Burma 's human rights record makes it unfit to head the organization .
President Arroyo met last month with Burma 's leader , Lieutenant-General Soe Win , and expressed fear for Aung San Suu Kyi , who has been under house arrest since May , 2003 .
The European Parliament has endorsed next week 's planned start of European Union membership talks with Turkey .
However , lawmakers on Wednesday also postponed ratifying Turkey 's customs accord with the European Union because of Turkey 's continued refusal to recognize Cyprus , which gained EU membership last year .
Also , the European Parliament passed a non-binding resolution calling on Turkey to recognize the massacre of hundreds of thousands of Armenians under the Ottoman Empire as a genocide .
Armenia says 1.5 million Armenians were slaughtered by the Turks 90 years ago during the final years of the Ottoman Empire .
Turkey says 300,000 Armenians and thousands of Turks were killed during an Armenian uprising .
Somali pirates say they have moved a kidnapped British couple onto land , to await negotiations for their rescue after demanding $ 7 million in ransom .
The pirates spoke by phone to news agencies Saturday .
Paul and Rachel Chandler were headed to Tanzania on a trip that started in the Seychelles when they sent a distress signal October 23 off the coast of Somalia .
Their yacht , the Lynn Rival , later was found empty in waters off East Africa .
Chandler has since spoken several times to reporters and said he and his wife are doing well .
In recent months , France and the United States have used military force to rescue hostages , while at other times , foreign hostages have been released after ransoms were paid .
There have been persistent high-seas hijackings in recent years in waters off east Africa , despite a growing armada of international warships to secure the area .
Indonesia 's Health Ministry says a 17-year-old woman has died of bird flu .
Authorities say the woman died Tuesday in Tangerang , west of Indonesia 's capital , Jakarta .
She is the 83rd Indonesian to have died of the virus .
Earlier this week , a 29-year-old woman living on the island of Bali died of the disease , becoming the resort island 's first known human fatality from the often-deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
More than 190 people worldwide have died from bird flu since the outbreak began in 2003 , mostly in Asian nations .
The virus is mainly passed to humans through contact with infected animals , but experts fear the virus could mutate into a form that is easily transmissible by human-to-human contact .
Bosnian officials say DNA tests on human remains taken from mass graves have identified 50 victims of the war in Croatia in the early 1990s .
Experts in Bosnian and Croatian laboratories compared the DNA with blood samples taken from more than 750 families who have reported missing relatives .
Fifty of the samples led to positive identifications .
A Bosnian official calls the results extraordinary .
The Sarajevo-based International Commission for Missing Persons runs one of the world 's most sophisticated DNA laboratories
The lab helped identify victims of the September 11 , 2001 terror attacks on the United States and last year 's Asian tsunami .
Zimbabwe 's ruling party has elected its first woman vice president .
At the conclusion of the ZANU-PF party congress Saturday , delegates approved the nomination 49-year old Joyce Mujuru , Zimbabwe 's minister of water and infrastructure .
She will share the post with Joseph Msika - filling a vacancy left by Simon Muzenda , who died last year .
Ms. Mujuru was President Robert Mugabe 's hand-chosen candidate .
Earlier this week , Mr. Mugabe suspended seven top party officials and reprimanded another for allegedly plotting against Ms. Mujuru 's election , in favor of another candidate , parliamentary speaker Emmerson Mnangawa .
Analysts said whoever won the vice presidency would be in a good position to possibly succeed Mr. Mugabe , now 80 years old , when he steps down .
President Bush has condemned the terrorist attacks at three hotels in Jordan , and expressed his condolences to King Abdullah and the country 's people .
In a statement , the president 's spokesman said the United States will offer any cooperation to Jordan in investigating the attacks and bringing those responsible to justice .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called the attacks a " great tragedy , " adding it shows people are willing to take innocent life without remorse .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan condemned the attacks and renewed a call for U.N. members to advance a comprehensive plan to combat terrorism .
U.N. officials said Mr. Annan , who is currently on a Middle East trip , has canceled plans to visit Jordan this week .
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir has made a rare visit to Darfur , where he made an appeal for peace and unity in the region .
Mr. Bashir spoke Saturday to a gathering in Nyala , the provincial capital .
The president said citizens want a comprehensive peace followed by development .
He called on armed rebels to join the political process .
Later Sunday , President Bashir will chair a Cabinet meeting in El~Fasher , the capital of north Darfur .
He returns Monday to Khartoum .
More than four years of fighting in the western Sudanese Darfur region have killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced more than two million others .
The Sudanese government has been accused of arming Arab militia , which have been blamed for many atrocities .
Khartoum denies any connection with the violence .
Russia says it has conducted a successful test launch of an interceptor missile from a testing range in Kazakhstan .
A spokesman for the Russian space forces , Alexei Kuznetsov , said the launch on Tuesday was part of a program aimed at extending the service life of interceptor missiles in the country 's defense system .
Kuznetsov told the Interfax news agency that initial information indicates that the tests confirmed the missile 's main characteristics .
Interceptor missiles are designed to shoot down enemy missiles .
Russia conducted a similar test in 2004 .
The European Union has urged oil-producing countries and oil companies to do more to increase oil production in the face of rising gas prices that EU officials say pose a threat to the bloc 's economic growth .
In a statement issued Saturday at the end of their two-day meeting in Manchester , England , EU finance ministers urged oil companies to , among other things , increase investment in oil exploration , production and refinement .
EU officials have said higher oil prices in the wake of Hurricane Katrina in the southern United States could cut economic growth across the 12-country euro currency zone from the originally forecast 1.3 percent to as little as one percent .
Oil prices closed at $ 64.08 a barrel in New York on Friday after hitting an all-time record high of $ 70.85 on August 30 .
Thailand 's military-installed government says it plans to lift a ban on political gatherings but will maintain martial law .
Interim Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said Tuesday in Bangkok that the political restrictions will be lifted after consultations with the military panel of coup leaders .
Martial law and related restrictions were put in place after Thailand 's military removed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra from office in a peaceful coup in September .
Cases of violence or discontent have been rare since then .
Mr. Thaksin had faced public calls for his resignation over allegations of abuse of power and graft .
Mr. Surayud has vowed to unite the country .
He will remain prime minister until elections next October .
U.S. military officials say five Americans are being held in Iraq under suspicion of terrorist activity .
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman declined to identify any of the detainees .
But news reports said three of them are Iraqi-Americans , one is an Iranian-American and the fifth suspect is Jordanian-American .
Mr. Whitman said none of them have been charged with a crime and that there is no connection between the suspects .
The Iranian-American has been identified by his family as Cyrus Kar of Los Angeles .
His laywers have sued the U.S. government in an effort to secure his release .
Russia 's foreign minister says Moscow will let NATO take armored vehicles through its territory to Afghanistan under an expanded transit deal .
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a news conference in Moscow Thursday that the opening of the Russian route applies to vehicles with anti-mine protection .
NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced last week at a NATO-Russia Council meeting that Russia had agreed to increase its cooperation on the war in Afghanistan , allowing more equipment to be moved through the country to support NATO troops .
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev led the NATO-Russia Council talks in Lisbon .
It was the first gathering of the 29-member group since April 2008 , just before Moscow 's brief war with Georgia , a Western ally .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has again defended plans to toughen anti-terrorism laws and detain suspects for three months without charge .
Mr. Blair told his monthly news conference in London that police have made compelling arguments to extend the length of detention from its current two weeks .
He says authorities are fighting a new kind of terrorism , which requires more time to investigate and often the cooperation of foreign agencies .
But civil rights activists and opposition politicians say the changes are counterproductive and will undermine efforts by authorities to get more cooperation from Britain 's Muslim community .
Mr. Blair proposed the new laws , which would also allow authorities to deport extremists , after the July 7 suicide bombings in London that killed 52 people .
The head of South Korea 's ruling Uri Party has resigned after parliament failed to pass several pieces of reform legislation by the end of 2004 .
Uri Party Chairman Lee Bu-young and members of the party 's standing central committee stepped down Monday citing the failure of his attempts to scrap the National Security Law .
The Uri Party vowed to push through a bill repealing the law last year , but the opposition Grand National Party blocked the legislation , saying North Korea still poses a threat to national security .
The impasse over the security legislation threatened passage of the country 's budget and a one-year extension of its troop deployment in Iraq .
The Uri Party leadership plans to hold a meeting this week to pick an interim leader who will serve until a party convention in April .
China has announced a new outbreak of bird flu virus among birds in its northwestern region of Ningxia .
China 's Agriculture Ministry says the outbreak of the deadly H5N1 virus was found in Zhongwei city .
Details on how many birds were affected or whether it was among farm-raised poultry were not immediately available .
China has reported nearly 40 outbreaks of bird flu in birds and poultry across China over the past year .
The country 's human bird flu infections stands at 19 , 12 of whom have died .
The World Health Organization says the H5N1 strain of the virus has killed at least 130 people since reappearing in Asia in 2003 .
Most of the victims have gotten the disease from animals , but health experts fear the virus may change into a form easily passed between humans .
NATO officials say alliance troops have killed at least 48 suspected Taleban rebels and several civilians in three separate clashes in southern Afghanistan .
The alliance said Wednesday four civilians were also wounded in the clashes in Kandahar 's Zhari and Panjwayi districts Tuesday .
A NATO spokesman says the alliance is looking into " credible reports " of civilian deaths during at least one of the clashes .
He says the alliance deeply regrets any civilian casualties .
Earlier , NATO officials said Afghan police and NATO-led troops seized more than nine tons of hashish from a truck traveling in southern Afghanistan .
Alliance officials say security forces found the drugs while searching the truck at a checkpoint in Zabul province .
The troops arrested the driver and three passengers .
Afghan officials say Taleban-led militants are fueling the drug trade because it helps fund the rebellion .
A strain of the bird flu virus that can spread to humans has been found among poultry in northern Nigeria .
The Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health says it found a " highly pathogenic " version of the H5N1 strain at a chicken farm in the village of Jaji in Kaduna state .
This is the first reported case of H5N1 in Africa .
The organization says Nigerian authorities have disinfected the premises , and imposed a quarantine and restrictions on the movement of animals .
It says it plans to coordinate a joint response to the situation with the U.N. 's Food and Agriculture Organization .
Avian flu has killed or forced the slaughter of millions of birds over the last two years .
The H5N1 strain has killed at least 88 people in seven countries , mostly in Asia , since late 2003 .
A leading human rights group is calling on European investigators to look into allegations of torture in secret prisons in Chechnya .
The International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights released a report Monday in which it says it has proof that Russian and Chechen security forces are operating such prisons .
It says Chechens are kidnapped and then tortured and sometimes killed in the jails .
The report says the prisons violate Russian law and European human rights treaties .
Russia has not yet responded to Monday 's report , but has denied allegations of torture in Chechen prisons in the past .
Russia has been battling Chechen separatists for much of the last decade .
The United Nations children 's agency has called for an end to female genital mutilation , saying the cruel and dangerous practice is spreading .
A report issued Thursday by UNICEF says millions of girls and women in Africa alone are still subjected to the procedure , known as female circumcision , which involves cutting off portions of or all of the female genitalia .
The report says that immigration has led to a " globalization " of the practice and it is affecting far more women than previously believed .
It says the procedure often leads to hemorrhaging , infection and , later , problems during child birth .
UNICEF is working with other organizations to stop female circumcision through education within traditional communities .
The United Nations has condemned the killing of an Afghan election worker by suspected Taleban rebels , the first killing linked to parliamentary polls scheduled for September .
U.N. spokeswoman Ariane Quentier said the world body condemns any type of violence aimed at derailing the democratic process in Afghanistan .
Officials say suspected Taleban rebels surrounded a village Friday and shot the election worker as he came out of a mosque .
The victim was part of a project educating villagers on how to cast their votes in Uruzgan province .
The killing has raised fears of further violence ahead of the September 18 parliamentary polls - the country 's next key step toward democracy after 25 years of war .
Police in Kenya have detained a Somali minister and two lawmakers for their role in a bloody brawl that broke out during a parliamentary session of the Somali government-in-exile .
The fight on Thursday took place during a contentious vote over the deployment of peacekeepers to Somalia .
Television footage showed lawmakers beating each other with walking sticks and throwing chairs and books at each other at a hotel in Nairobi where parliament is meeting .
Police say one of those detained is Somali trade minister , Musa Sudi Yalahow .
Somali lawmakers are divided over whether to allow peacekeepers into Somalia from bordering countries .
Friday , East African officials attempted to defuse the situation , saying the first group of peacekeepers would only come from countries that do not border Somalia .
Nineteen suspected members of the violent street gang , Mara Salvatrucha ( or MS-13 ) have been indicted on federal racketeering charges in Maryland .
The indictments , released Thursday , accuse the men of murders , kidnappings and other gang-related crimes from April 2003 to June of this year .
The 19 suspected gang members are accused of six murders and several attempted murders .
The crimes took place in suburban Maryland , outside of Washington , D.C.
The gang is traditionally made up of immigrants from El Salvador .
Its U.S. activities originated in Los Angeles in the 1980s .
An estimated 10,000 members are in the United States .
Federal agents and local police officers arrested many of the indicted gang members Thursday .
The indictments are the latest attempt by the federal government to target the organization .
The Nigerian military has fired on several barges it says were being used by oil smugglers in the Niger Delta region .
A helicopter gunship carried out the attack Wednesday in Delta state , near the city of Warri .
It was the first known assault by Nigeria 's military in the Delta since local militants carried out a series of attacks against the oil industry , including the kidnapping of four foreign oil workers last month .
A local group known as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta condemned the helicopter strike , saying it targeted ethnic Ijaw communities .
The group alleges the helicopter took off from an civilian airstrip operated by Royal Dutch Shell .
It threatened to shoot down aircraft using the strip if Nigeria 's military uses it again .
The militants want greater local control over southern Nigeria 's oil wealth .
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself .
Then a Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture .
The Horse , desiring to revenge himself on the stranger , asked a man if he were willing to help him in punishing the Stag .
The man replied that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to carry him , he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag .
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him .
From that hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag , he had enslaved himself to the service of man .
China says at least 18 people have been killed after moderate earthquake hit a mountainous area in southwest China 's Yunnan province .
The official Xinhua news agency says the 5.1-magnitude earthquake shook Yunnan 's Yanjin county Saturday morning .
The epicenter of the quake was about 90 kilometers from Zhaotong city .
Rescue teams have been deployed to the area , where large rocks tumbled down from hills onto residential areas .
At least 56 houses were reported destroyed in the quake .
At least 60 people were injured .
They have been taken to hospitals for treatment .
Experts with a local seismological bureau told Xinhua that houses in Yanjin were built mostly near hillsides , making them vulnerable to earthquakes .
Yanjin is a county on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau with a population of 350,000 people .
The Iraqi government 's top executive body , called the president 's council , has issued a controversial law that allows some former members of Saddam Hussein 's Baath Party to return to government service .
The Kurdish , Jalal Talabani , and Shi'ite , Adel Abdul-Mahdi , representatives of the three-member presidency council issued the law Sunday despite the objection of the Sunni representative , Tareq al-Hashemi .
Sunni politicians say the law contains provisions that will force out many current government workers .
The law is one of 18 pieces of so-called benchmark legislation aimed at achieving reconciliation among Iraq 's Kurdish , Sunni Arab and Shi'ite communities .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says the bodies of four Iraqi militia members working with U.S. forces were recovered in Baquba Sunday .
The military also said coalition forces killed three suspected terrorists and captured 36 others in the last two days in operations in central and northern Iraq .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez warns that he will not renew the license of a television station he accuses of backing a failed coup against him in 2002 .
Mr. Chavez said in a speech Thursday to the military that the concession for Radio Caracas Television will end in March .
Earlier , the information minister , William Lara , said the broadcaster 's license would expire next May .
Mr. Chavez also said he will not tolerate any media outlets that support efforts to remove him from power .
There was no immediate response from the Caracas-based station .
President Chavez has repeatedly denounced RCTV and other pro-opposition broadcasters for what he says is overly critical coverage of his government .
The press rights group Reporters Without Borders has urged Venezuela to end its efforts to shut down RCTV .
Iran 's new foreign minister says Tehran will not return to a full suspension of nuclear fuel activities and warned against referring the issue to the U.N. Security Council .
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki made his comments at a news conference Sunday .
Mr. Mottaki reiterated Iran 's position that it will not stop uranium processing .
He also rejected a European threat to refer Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions as a no-win situation .
He warned such a move would result in certain consequences , but he did not elaborate .
European negotiators have been trying to convince Iran to totally abandon nuclear fuel work in exchange for a package of trade , diplomatic , security and technological incentives .
The United States accuses Iran of using its nuclear program as a cover to secretly produce nuclear weapons .
Tehran says it only wants nuclear technology to produce electricity .
French police placed four people four youths under investigation in connection with a bus attack Saturday in Marseille that left a passenger in critical condition .
Under the French legal system , being placed under investigation is one step short of the filing of formal charges Officials say the teenagers , between the ages of 15 and 17 , have previous records for delinquency .
A Marseille prosecutor , Jacques Baume , said three of the youths have admitted taking part in the incident .
The victim - a 26-year-old woman - remains hospitalized after being burned on more than half of her body .
The bus attack is one of the most severe incidents coinciding with the anniversary of riots that raged through mainly immigrant suburbs of France a year ago .
Immigrant families rioted last November to protest discrimination and a lack of jobs for young people .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator has called for other countries to join the three European nations engaged in talks with Tehran about its nuclear program .
Iranian state television quotes Ali Larijani as saying questions have been raised in Iran as to why the talks are being conducted with just Britain , Germany and France .
He said Iran would welcome negotiations with other members of the International Atomic Energy Agency 's board of governors and members of the Non-Aligned Movement .
Iran 's talks with Europe appeared close to collapse this week when the European nations canceled an August 31 meeting .
But both sides have expressed a willingness to continue .
The European powers are trying to persuade Iran to give up parts of its nuclear program that could be used to produce nuclear weapons .
Iran insists it has a right to the technology , and asserts that its nuclear program is peaceful .
Attacks in Pakistan 's southern Shaktoi area have become a source of friction between the U.S. and Pakistan , which sees them as a violation of its sovereignty Pakistani officials say a suspected U.S. drone missile strike has killed at least 20 militants .
Authorities say the toll could rise .
Sunday 's attack took place in the Shaktoi area of Pakistan 's restive South Waziristan region .
Saturday , Pakistani Taliban militants issued a new audio recording they said proved their leader , Hakimullah Mehsud , survived a suspected U.S. missile strike last week .
Pakistani intelligence sources had said Mehsud was wounded in the missile strike that killed at least 12 suspected militants Thursday .
The United States has increased attacks using drones since a suicide bomber killed seven U.S. intelligence agents in eastern Afghanistan in late December .
Softball is better than baseball because you do n't have to watch your team lose for NINE innings .
The first witness to appear in person at the trial of Saddam Hussein has given graphic testimony about the 1982 killing of more than 140 people in a mainly Shi'ite town .
Ahmed Mohammed Hassem said he knew several people killed in Dujail after an assassination attempt on Saddam there .
His testimony was interrupted by exchanges with one of Saddam 's seven co-defendants - his half-brother Barzan Ibrahim .
Before the judge adjourned proceedings , Saddam told the court he is not afraid of execution .
He earlier yelled out " long live Iraq , long live the Arab state . "
Court officials say the trial will resume Tuesday .
Also Monday , one of Saddam 's lawyers , former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark , demanded better security for defense lawyers , two of whom have been killed .
On Sunday , Iraqi authorities said they had foiled an insurgent plot to bomb the trial during Monday 's proceedings .
The U.S. space agency 's Mars probe is set to land Sunday , May 25 .
NASA scientists in Washington recently talked about what they call the mission 's " seven minutes of terror . "
That is how long it will take for a probe to slow down enough to land on its surface .
Once there , the Phoenix Mars Lander will dig into the Martian ice and soil , study the planet 's atmosphere , and more .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
British police say they are examining suspicious material found in a north London apartment connected to at least one of the suspects in last week 's failed transit bombings .
Investigators Tuesday said they found a large quantity of possibly explosive material in the house .
The apartment , which police raided Monday , has been dubbed by some British newspapers as a ' bomb factory . '
Earlier , police released the names of two of the suspects , one a naturalized British citizen from Eritrea and one a Somali living in the country legally .
No one was injured in the July 21 attacks , and officials say the four would-be bombers are most likely hiding in Britain .
Two weeks before , on July 7 , 56 people , including four suicide bombers , died when explosions ripped through three subway trains and a bus .
Iran continues to downplay the threat of U.S. military strikes , and says any U.S. attack on the Islamic republic would be a strategic mistake .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi told a news conference Sunday the chance of a U.S. strike is very low , echoing recent comments from President Mohammad Khatami .
Washington and Tehran have been locked in a three-year stand-off over U.S. allegations that Iran is using its nuclear program to develop banned weapons .
Iran has repeatedly denied the charges .
Last week , a published report said U.S. commandos have carried out clandestine missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
The White House rejected The New Yorker magazine report , but President Bush later said military action to deal with Iran 's nuclear threat had not been ruled out .
Sunday , Mr. Asefi characterized the president 's comments as psychological warfare .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has met with Russian business leaders to discuss joint oil and gas ventures during a visit to Moscow .
According to Associated Press , Mr. Chavez praised the close ties between Russia and Venezuela during the meeting , and urged top executives to invest in future energy projects .
President Chavez is on a two-day visit to Russia .
He scheduled to hold talks with his Russian counterpart , Vladimir Putin on Friday .
Russia is the world 's second largest oil exporter , while Venezuela is fifth among oil-exporting countries .
Jordan has announced that parliamentary elections will be held on November 9 .
The date was set in a Cabinet meeting Tuesday .
It comes nearly a month after the government enacted a new election law increasing the number of seats from 110 to 120 .
It also doubled the quota of women lawmakers to 12 .
Jordan 's King Abdullah dissolved parliament last year after accusing lawmakers of ineffectiveness .
Al-Qaida-linked terrorists in Iraq say they have killed Egypt 's top envoy , who was kidnapped late last week in the Iraqi capital .
A video posted on a website Thursday , showed a blindfolded man believed to be Egyptian Ambassador Ihab al-Sherif .
The tape did not show the killing , and has not been authenticated .
The diplomat was kidnapped off a Baghdad street on Saturday as he stopped to buy a newspaper .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say twin car bombs have killed at least 13 people and wounded nearly 30 others south of Baghdad in the town of Mashruh .
In Mosul , authorities say three Iraqis were killed and more than 40 others wounded by insurgent mortar fire apparently aimed at police stations in the central city .
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny nook , and flying down , greedily seized him .
The Serpent , turning about , bit the Crow with a mortal wound .
In the agony of death , the bird exclaimed :
" O unhappy me ! who have found in that which I deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction . "
The World Health Organization has confirmed Burma 's first human case of bird flu .
Based on information provided by the Burmese Ministry of Health , the WHO identified the victim as a seven-year-old girl from eastern Shan State .
Officials say she developed symptoms of the disease last month in an area where there had been an outbreak of the H5N1 virus in poultry .
The girl survived the disease .
Seven countries in East Asia have reported human cases of the potentially deadly H5N1 virus .
The two with the greatest number of cases are Indonesia and Vietnam .
More than 200 people in 13 countries have died from the disease since 2003 .
Israeli medical officials say former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has been transferred to the intensive care unit of a Tel Aviv hospital for kidney dialysis .
The 78-year-old former political leader has been in a coma for six months , since suffering a massive stroke on January 4 .
A hospital spokesperson , Anat Dolev , said Mr. Sharon was taken to intensive care Wednesday so doctors could remove excess fluids that have accumulated in his body as a result of kidney failure .
Earlier in the week , hospital officials said that Mr. Sharon 's condition had deteriorated , noting the accumulation of fluids and changes in his brain tissue .
Kid Rock wo n't face charges after a woman claimed he pushed her headfirst into a snowbank after a night of drinking .
The 36-year-old rock singer - real name Bob Ritchie - now says he 'll sue the 28-year-old woman for filing a false police report .
She alleged that Kid Rock roughed her up after meeting her and a male friend at a bar in the Midwestern state of Michigan , and then inviting them to his house .
Prosecutors said March 16 that insufficient evidence existed to charge Kid Rock with a crime .
Kid Rock made headlines last year after marrying - and divorcing - actress Pamela Anderson in a four-month span .
Six American and two Afghan soldiers were killed Sunday when a suicide bomber drove an explosives-laden van into a new jointly operated outpost in southern Kandahar province .
U.S. and Afghan officials said a number of American and Afghan troops were wounded in the powerful blast .
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack .
In other violence , NATO said its security forces killed two insurgents , including a reputed Taliban leader , in eastern Afghanistan on Saturday .
Also in the east , a joint Afghan-NATO force hunting for a Taliban " shadow governor " killed one insurgent and detained 10 others in Nangarhar province Saturday night .
In northern Kunduz province , one insurgent was killed and five others detained during a search for a high-ranking leader of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan .
And in southern Helmand province Saturday , a joint NATO-Afghan force found a drug cache containing one ton of opium and 37 kilograms of refined morphine .
Russian President Vladimir Putin and British Prime Minister Tony Blair have met in London for talks focusing on energy issues and the struggle against terrorism .
Russian officials say during the 90 minutes of discussions the two leaders paid special attention to the energy issue , noting that within seven years Britain will become an importer of natural gas and oil .
The Russian officials say both sides expressed readiness to cooperate in efforts to deal with tensions in the Middle East , Central Asia and Afghanistan .
They said Mr. Blair stressed the importance of tightening British anti-terrorist legislation .
The meeting came ahead of ceremonies in which Mr. Putin honored the British team that helped rescue seven Russian sailors trapped in a submarine off the coast of Russia 's Kamchatka Peninsula last August .
Tuesday , Mr. Putin and European Union leaders held a summit in London .
An Iranian news agency says authorities have reinstated 300 more candidates ahead of next month 's parliamentary elections , bringing the total reinstated in the past week to almost 600 .
Iran 's official news agency , IRNA , quotes an official as saying the candidates ' names will be released later Saturday .
Iran 's Interior Ministry banned more than 2,200 candidates , mostly reformists , from competing in the March 14 vote .
Several days ago , Iran 's highest oversight body , the Guardian Council , said that it had reinstated 280 of those candidates .
Iranian authorities can disqualify candidates who are not deemed as showing sufficient loyalty to Iran 's Islamic system .
Reformists and conservatives have strongly criticized the mass disqualifications , warning that they undermine the election process .
THE people of Madagonia had an antipathy to the people of Novakatka and set upon some sailors of a Novakatkan vessel , killing two and wounding twelve .
The King of Madagonia having refused either to apologise or pay , the King of Novakatka made war upon him , saying that it was necessary to show that Novakatkans must not be slaughtered .
In the battles which ensued the people of Madagonia slaughtered two thousand Novakatkans and wounded twelve thousand .
But the Madagonians were unsuccessful , which so chagrined them that never thereafter in all their land was a Novakatkan secure in property or life .
Somalia 's Prime Minister Mohammed Ali Gedi has postponed a visit to his homeland .
Some press reports say the trip was delayed because the government had not been able to obtain aircraft capable of landing in Somalia 's various airstrips .
But Yusef Omar Azhari , the legal and political advisor President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed , says the delegation is waiting for some parliamentarians to return to Nairobi from Rome today ( Wednesday ) before leaving for Mogadishu in the next few days .
The president and prime minister are expected to tour Somalia as part of an effort to relocate the interim government from neighboring Kenya .
Military experts from several African nations have already been in Somalia to assess the security situation ahead of a proposed peacekeeping mission .
Mr. Azhari told VOA reporter William Eagle that he expects the government to be completely relocated from Nairobi , Kenya to Somalia by March 20th
A study indicates that the average level of nicotine in cigarettes has risen 10 percent in the past six years , making it harder for smokers to quit .
The health department for the state of Massachusetts released a study this week .
It shows how much nicotine content has changed and how much nicotine smokers inhale when they smoke .
The study said cigarettes in 2004 yielded the smoker nearly 10 percent more nicotine per cigarette than in 1998 .
The increase in nicotine levels varied by brand , with some increasing as much as 30 percent .
Fifty two out of 116 brands studied had nicotine increases of more than 10 percent .
Health experts say higher nicotine content makes cigarettes more addictive and smoking harder to quit .
U.S. tobacco companies have not commented on the study .
An auction house in Hong Kong has broken the price-per-carat record for a gemstone auctioned off , with the sale of a six-carat blue diamond at nearly $ 8 million .
Sotheby 's of Hong Kong announced the sale Monday , noting that the price comes out to $ 1.32 million a carat .
The sale bested a 20-year record held by a diamond known as the " Hancock Red " that fetched just over $ 900,000 per carat in 1987 .
The buyer for the diamond is Moussaieff Jewelers , a London-based jeweler that collects rare gemstones .
The diamond is said to be in perfect condition with a rare , vivid blue color - the result of the element boron in the stone 's crystal structure .
Lawyers for veterans of Kenya 's Mau Mau uprising of the 1950s say the British government has denied responsibility for colonial-era claims of torture and other atrocities .
At a news conference in Nairobi Tuesday , the lawyers presented a letter from the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office rejecting the claim .
The letter argues the British government had no direct link to the colonial administration in Kenya at the time .
The office also said too much time had passed to consider the claims .
Six Mau Mau veterans have launched a claim against the British government seeking damages for torture and other abuses suffered during the uprising against British colonial rule from 1952 to 1959 .
The veterans say they plan to move forward with legal action against the British government .
Muslims around the world are awaiting the sighting of the crescent moon to begin fasting for Islam 's holy month of Ramadan .
Muslims observe the ninth month of the lunar Islamic calendar by abstaining from eating , drinking and sexual relations from dawn until sunset .
The holy month is expected to begin Wednesday or a day later , depending on the sighting of the moon the night before .
This year Ramadan begins amid scorching temperatures in the Middle East and elsewhere , with the first six months of 2010 being the warmest ever recorded .
The month marks the time more than 1,400 years ago when Muslims believe the words of Islam 's holy book , the Koran , were revealed to the Prophet Mohammed .
Muslims celebrate the month with family visits , invitations to iftars and shared meals that break the fast .
Ramadan will conclude in September with a celebration called Eid al-Fitr .
The Red Cross and the Pentagon have acknowledged that they discussed complaints of Koran desecration from detainees held at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba in 2002 and 2003 .
On Thursday , Red Cross officials said that after several discussions with the Pentagon about the allegations , the complaints ceased .
Neither Red Cross officials nor the Pentagon have disclosed details of the allegations , but the Pentagon said the incidents were rare and minor .
Defense officials say they are continuing to investigate allegations of Koran desecration that have fueled anti-U.S. protests around the world , leaving at least 17 people dead in Afghanistan .
The uproar began after Newsweek magazine said a Defense Department report found that U.S. interrogators had flushed a copy of the Muslim holy book down a toilet to rattle detainees .
Newsweek later retracted the story and apologized .
Police in Afghanistan say Afghan and NATO forces have killed 10 Taleban rebels in fighting in the country 's south .
Police say the fighting broke out when Afghan and NATO forces raided the rebels ' hideouts in Helmand province 's Garmser district .
It is the same area where , on Tuesday , Afghan and NATO forces killed 18 Taleban insurgents .
One police officer was also killed .
NATO took over security operations from U.S.-led coalition forces this week in six southern Afghan provinces .
The death toll from Saturday 's collapse of a metal exposition hall roof in the southern Polish city of Katowice continues to climb .
Officials now say they have pulled at least 26 bodies from the rubble .
A spokesman for the government of the Silesia region , where Katowice is located , said another 130 were injured .
Police say about 500 people from Poland and other countries across Europe were inside the facility attending a homing pigeon exhibition .
Officials say several foreigners were believed to be among the casualties , but there are conflicting reports about their nationalities and condition .
Officials say the collapse was likely the result of the weight of snow on the roof after heavy snows and an arctic freeze that swept through Poland and neighboring countries this week .
Temperatures plunged to minus 15 degrees Celsius as rescue efforts continued .
Election officials in East Timor say there were many " inconsistencies " in the country 's presidential election last Monday .
The reported inconsistencies range from poor organization to discrepancies between the number of voters and the votes cast .
Several districts , including the capital , Dili , had problems .
A spokesman for the National Electoral Commission Martinho Gusmao told a news conference Friday that voting officials have just 72 hours to resolve the issues before official results are announced on Monday .
Election officials have rejected a request from several candidates for a recount .
Unofficial results show ruling party Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and parliament chief Francisco " Lu Olo " Guterres will be competing in a runoff election .
East Timor has been struggling to strengthen its democracy since voting for independence from Indonesia in 1999 .
A Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect wanted for shelling Sarajevo has been taken into custody and will be sent to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
Chief Prosecutor Carla del Ponte announced Friday that Dragomir Milosevic had apparently surrendered in Serbia .
Mr. Milosevic , who is no relation to former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic , was commander of a Bosnian-Serb corps wanted for attacks on the Bosnian capital .
Ms. del Ponte said she had few details on the suspect 's surrender .
Two of the tribunal 's top suspects - Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic - are still at large .
President Bush says the United States is a prayerful nation , which he says he believes makes the nation strong .
He made the remark at a White House event Thursday for the National Day of Prayer , which is observed on the first Thursday of May .
Those in attendance included members of the military , religious leaders , lawmakers , cabinet officials , and Washington Mayor Adrian Fenty .
Mr. Bush says Americans have answered the call for prayer since the founding of the nation more than two centuries ago .
He says the greatest gift someone can give is the gift of prayer , saying it has the power to change lives and the course of history .
Britain says it will extradite a computer expert to the United States to face terrorism charges .
Home Secretary Charles Clarke says he has agreed to extradite 31-year-old British citizen Babar Ahmad , who is accused of running web sites in support of the al-Qaida terrorist network , Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime and Russia 's Chechen separatists .
Mr. Ahmad has been in jail since his arrest in August 2004 under a U.S. arrest warrant .
New British laws allow the United States to seek the extradition of someone without presenting any evidence .
A British court ruled earlier this year that Mr. Ahmad should be extradited after the United States promised he would not be labeled an " enemy combatant " and imprisoned in the U.S. naval base on Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The case was then passed on to Mr. Clarke .
Mr. Ahmad 's family is denouncing the decision , and promises to appeal .
The European Union has extended sanctions against Burma 's military government and has called for an international arms embargo .
The 27-member bloc endorsed a one-year extension of political and economic sanctions Tuesday at a meeting in Luxembourg .
EU foreign ministers issued a statement warning that the measures could be expanded .
Those sanctions ban EU arms exports to Burma and impose an assets freeze and travel ban on Burmese leaders .
In its statement , the EU also called for the release of all political prisoners , including detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
Last week , the United States circulated a revised draft Security Council statement , urging Burma to initiate dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi , who has been under house arrest since 2003 .
The non-binding statement also called for the Burmese military government to allow the Nobel Prize laureate and other political figures to fully participate in a constitutional referendum scheduled for May 10 .
A Vietnamese man has died from bird flu , raising the country 's death toll from the deadly virus to 39 .
Health officials say the Hanoi resident died Tuesday after being hospitalized six days earlier .
It was unclear how the man contracted bird flu .
The Vietnamese government says it will begin nationwide vaccinations of poultry in August in an effort to contain the spread of the virus , which has also killed 12 people in Thailand and four others from Cambodia .
Medical experts say the H5N1 virus that causes bird flu appears to be spread only by close contact between humans and infected poultry .
However , they warn that bird flu could change into a form that can easily pass between people , triggering a global pandemic .
Officials from Nigeria 's southeastern state of Bayelsa say they are negotiating the release of two German and four Nigerian oil workers kidnapped by militants .
The six employees were abducted on Wednesday while traveling by boat to an offshore oil field .
They work for the German firm Bilfinger Berger , a subsidiary of Royal-Dutch Shell .
The kidnappers - ethnic Ijaw militants - are demanding $ 20 million in ransom from Shell along with a promise to honor a previous agreement to give jobs and other benefits to local residents .
Communities in Nigeria 's oil rich southern region have long complained they have been cut out of the money made from the resources extracted from their land .
Militant groups frequently attack oil operations of multi-national companies to demand social services and better job opportunities .
Kurdish witnesses in northwestern Iran say security forces killed at least 11 Kurdish demonstrators in a clash Wednesday in the city of Saqiz .
Witnesses tell VOA that government buildings in the town were damaged in the clash .
They say police are heavily deployed across Saqiz .
The Iranian government has not commented on the reports .
The protest and clash are the latest in a wave of violence across Kurdish areas of Iran following last month 's killing of a Kurdish activist by Iranian security forces .
The United States has announced it is giving $ 40 million worth of food aid to Bangladesh , which is facing shortages after flooding and a devastating cyclone last year .
U.S. Ambassador to Bangladesh James Moriarty said Sunday in Dhaka the aid will go to school children , along with cyclone and flood victims .
Last year 's Cyclone Sidr killed an estimated 3,500 people and left another two million homeless .
The cyclone also destroyed roughly two million tons of rice .
The Bangladeshi government has said this year 's rice crop looks like it will be plentiful , but it is still anticipating possible rice shortages .
Thousands of followers of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr have rallied in the streets of Iraq to protest a triple car bombing Wednesday that killed at least 40 people and wounded about 125 more .
Protesters took to the streets in Baghdad and Basra Friday to denounce the attacks .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombings in the mainly Shi'ite southern city of Amarah .
In other violence , the U.S. military in Iraq says two American soldiers were killed in separate incidents .
The military says one soldier was shot in an attack in the capital Thursday , and another soldier died of wounds from a roadside bombing south of Baghdad .
Separately , the military says coalition forces killed three suspected terrorists and detained 12 others during operations Friday targeting al-Qaida networks in central Iraq .
A new survey shows support for U.S. President Barack Obama has fallen in Europe , though his popularity remains high .
Mr. Obama 's approval ratings among Europeans dropped from 83 percent in 2009 to 78 percent in the annual Transatlantic Trends survey released Wednesday .
The poll , conducted by the German Marshall Fund of the United States , surveyed 1,000 people each in the United States , Turkey and 11 European Union nations .
While Mr. Obama enjoys overall support in Europe , fewer than half of those polled approved of his handling of Iran and Afghanistan .
A majority of Europeans said membership in the EU was good for their economy , even if the euro currency was not .
Former Sudanese President Jaafar Nimeiri - who imposed strict lslamic law on Sudan - has died .
A statement from Sudan 's presidential office says the 79-year-old former leader died from an unspecified illness .
It says he will be buried on Sunday in Omdurman near the capital , Khartoum .
Mr. Nimeiri came to power in a coup in 1969 and served for 16 years until he too was ousted by a coup in 1985 while visiting the United States .
President Nimeiri imposed Islamic Sharia on Sudan in 1983 , a move that alienated the largely non-Muslim south , and is widely viewed as the catalyst for the nation 's 22-year civil war .
Following his ouster , Mr. Nimeiri lived in exile in Egypt .
He returned to Sudan in 1999 .
Turkey has sent more troops and tanks to the Iraqi border , as speculation grows about a possible Turkish incursion against Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says his patience has run out for the United States and Iraq to take action against the Kurdish rebels .
But U.S. officials have expressed concerns that a cross-border operation could destabilize northern Iraq .
Meanwhile , Turkish security forces continue large-scale operations against the Kurdistan Worker 's Party , or PKK , rebels in southeast Turkey .
A Turkish soldier in the region was killed Wednesday by a landmine blast .
Pressure for action against the PKK is mounting as Turkey prepares for national elections on July 22 , and after two bombings last week .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 .
The United States , the European Union and Turkey classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
Singapore 's men 's national football team has defeated Indonesia , 3-1 , in the first leg of the Tiger Cup finals in Jakarta .
First-half goals from England native Daniel Bennett and Khairul Amri gave Singapore the lead .
Nigerian-born Agu Casmir added another goal in the second half .
Indonesia 's only score came in injury time when substitute Mahyadi Panggabean deflected a free kick into the goal .
Singapore holds a two-goal lead over Indonesia headed into the second leg match in Singapore January 16 .
Singapore is trying to win the tournament for the second time in six years .
Indonesia has lost twice before in the Tiger Cup finals in 2000 and 2002 .
Tropical Storm Ophelia has headed northward , as residents of coastal North and South Carolina assess damage from the slow-moving storm .
Thousands of homes and businesses remained without power Friday , despite the fact that the nation 's first hurricane since Katrina never officially made landfall .
Experts say the Category 1 hurricane caused power outages , flooded streets , and significant damage to buildings because it moved slowly , battering the same area for two days and dumping dozens of centimeters of rain .
As Ophelia continues to weaken and move northward , tropical storm watches are in effect for parts of the northeastern U.S. state of Massachusetts and the Canadian province of Nova Scotia .
Brazil 's president declared the country independent of the need for foreign oil as he opened a huge new offshore oilrig in the Atlantic Ocean on Thursday .
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva flipped a switch and drenched his hands in the flowing oil .
His gesture recreated one made by President Getulio Vargas when he created the government-run Petrobras oil company in 1953 .
Ironically , the new rig came online in the same week that oil prices set record highs .
Roughly 30 years ago , Brazil imported about 80 percent of its oil .
Petrobras says that when the huge new P-50 oil rig is producing at full capacity six months from now , Brazil 's oil production will average 1.9 million barrels a day , slightly more than the nation 's average daily consumption of 1.85 barrels a day .
Bermuda enjoys the third highest per capita income in the world , more than 50 % higher than that of the US ; the average cost of a house by the mid-2000s exceeded $ 1,000,000 .
Its economy is primarily based on providing financial services for international business and luxury facilities for tourists .
A number of reinsurance companies relocated to the island following the 11 September 2001 attacks and again after Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 contributing to the expansion of an already robust international business sector .
Bermuda 's tourism industry - which derives over 80 % of its visitors from the US - continues to struggle but remains the island 's number two industry .
Most capital equipment and food must be imported .
Bermuda 's industrial sector is largely focused on construction and agriculture is limited , with only 20 % of the land being arable .
Activists from the environmental group Greenpeace displayed dead whales and dolphins in front of Berlin 's famed Brandenburg Gate Monday to demonstrate why it believes a whale hunting moratorium should continue .
Greenpeace says it found the dead mammals on various European beaches , saying some drowned while trapped in fisherman 's nets while others were badly wounded in collisions with ships .
Greenpeace marine biologist Stefanie Werner says 300,000 whales and dolphins drown in fishing nets every year and many others die from pollution , accidents with ships , or from the effects of global warming .
She asked how can pro-whaling nations justify hunting them ?
The International Whaling Commission meets next week in Anchorage , Alaska , where Iceland , Japan , and Norway are expected to push to end a worldwide ban on commercial whaling .
Whaling is a tradition and an industry for many in those countries .
Police in Afghanistan say suspected Taleban militants have kidnapped four Afghan aid workers in the eastern part of the country .
A provincial police chief General Abdul Hanan Raufi said Monday the four aid workers , employed by the International Organization for Migration , were abducted Sunday in eastern Paktia province .
He said elders in the area are involved in negotiating for their release .
Farther east , the U.-S.-led coalition force says troops captured a known al-Qaida terrorist and five other extremists Monday during an operation near the city of Khost .
A military statement did not identify the captured men , but said the troops found grenades , military equipment , armor-piercing rounds and assault rifles during a search of the compound where the men were caught .
Three Australians went on trial Wednesday in Bali for allegedly trying to smuggle heroin from the resort island .
They are among nine Australians facing charges after the group was arrested in April .
If convicted , they could be executed .
Two other trials began Tuesday .
This is the latest in a string of high-profile drug cases involving Australians in Indonesia .
In May , Australian Schapelle Corby was sentenced to 20 years in prison on charges of smuggling marijuana onto the island .
Her conviction angered some in Australia who say she is innocent or the sentence is too harsh .
Indonesia has some of the toughest drug laws in the world .
Those convicted of possessing or distributing illegal drugs face sentences ranging from several years in prison to the death penalty .
A second group that says it has links to the al-Qaida terrorist network has claimed responsibility for Thursday 's attacks in London .
Injured tube passengers are escorted away from Edgware Road Tube Station in London following explosion , Thursday A group calling itself the " Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades " posted a statement on an Arabic language Islamist website Saturday , congratulating itself for the bombings on three subway trains and one bus in the central part of the British capital .
The same group also claimed responsibility for the March , 2004 Madrid train bombings that killed nearly 200 people .
Just hours after Thursday 's bombings , a group calling itself " The Secret Organization of al-Qaida in Europe " issued a statement on another Arabic language Islamist website claiming responsibility for the attacks .
Neither claim has been verified .
Police in Nepal 's capital have arrested a senior opposition party official ahead of a planned protest .
Police detained Arjun Narsingh , spokesman of the Nepali Congress Party , outside the party 's offices in Kathmandu .
Mr. Narsingh had called a party meeting to plan demonstrations on Friday - Nepal 's Democracy Day - against the new royal government .
Nepal 's King Gyanendra dismissed the previous government and declared a state of emergency two weeks ago because of what he said was its failure to put down a growing Maoist rebellion .
Outside Nepal the power grab has been widely criticized and several nations , including the United States , some EU countries and Nepal 's close ally India , have recalled their ambassadors for consultations .
German officials say that Russia is to remove large quantities of enriched uranium from the Soviet-era atomic reactor in former East Germany .
Police said Sunday that more than 300 kilograms of nuclear waste , produced in the Rossendorf reactor near the city of Dresden , was to be flown out of Germany overnight .
Germans shut down the Soviet-built research reactor soon after reunification in 1990 .
The waste is to be treated in Russia under an international agreement aimed at preventing proliferation of nuclear material .
Representatives of U.N. Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency were to observe loading of the nuclear waste into aircraft at the Dresden airport .
Rival factions in Kenya have clashed again in an increasingly violent campaign over a constitutional referendum , as authorities appealed for calm and vowed to punish anyone provoking unrest .
Police say Thursday 's riot in the central town of Garissa began when supporters of the referendum tried to disrupt a rally held by opponents of the constitution .
Police restored order after the crowd hurled rocks , bananas - the ballot symbol for a " yes " vote - and oranges , representing a " no " vote .
At least one person was injured .
Kenyans are to vote on a new proposed constitution in a national referendum on November 21 .
The 197-page document allows Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki to retain his wide-ranging powers .
Opponents say it fails to establish a strong prime ministerial post , which they argue is needed to balance the president 's authority .
Israeli troops and tanks entered the northern Gaza Strip Sunday , hours after Israel ended an operation against Palestinian militants in southern Gaza .
The Beit Hanoun operation began soon after Israeli forces withdrew from Khan Younis after a three-day assault .
Israel says both raids were aimed at stopping militants from firing rockets and mortar shells at Israeli settlements and towns .
The Israeli military actions come one week before Palestinian elections to replace the late Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat .
A new opinion survey by the Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research shows Palestine Liberation Organization chairman Mahmoud Abbas with a 65-to-22 percent lead over his nearest rival , Mustafa Barghouti .
Mr. Abbas has vowed to protect Palestinian militants from Israeli raids .
He also has criticized attacks on Israelis , saying they are not productive .
A North Korean patrol boat crossed briefly into South Korean waters Sunday to seize a Chinese fishing boat that had been illegally fishing in the North .
The patrol boat sped nearly two kilometers into the southern section of the Yellow Sea , notifying the South Korean navy that it was tracking an illegal fishing boat .
South Korea 's Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement , the South Korean navy radioed a warning about the border crossing , and 25 minutes later the patrol boat crossed back into North Korean waters .
The Yellow Sea , on the western side of the Korean Peninsula , has been the scene of deadly North and South confrontations in recent years .
The two sides have established a radio protocol to prevent future clashes .
The United Nations highest court has begun hearing the Democratic Republic of Congo 's complaint against neighboring Uganda for violating humanitarian law .
Congo accused Uganda of massacring civilians , looting and destruction in its opening argument Monday at the International Court of Justice in The Hague .
Congo also charged the Ugandan government with continuing to back warlords on Congolese territory who are plundering natural resources in the eastern part of the country .
Resource-rich Congo is demanding reparations for damages suffered during five years of war in which more than three million people died .
Uganda has previously denied the allegations and will make its argument Friday .
Congo first took Uganda to the World Court for abuses in 1999 , one year after Uganda and Rwanda launched an invasion .
Both nations have since signed peace deals with the Congolese government .
A South Korean official who visited Washington last week says talks to discuss North Korea 's nuclear program could resume as early as this month .
In a radio interview Monday , Kim Sook , director-general for North American affairs at the South Korean Foreign Ministry , said he is cautiously optimistic about the resumption of six-party talks in July .
He added that North Korea has not set a firm date for their return to the negotiating table .
Mr. Kim joined South Korea 's Unification Minister , Chung Dong-young , in Washington last week for talks with U.S. officials concerning Pyongyang .
Reuters quotes Japan 's foreign minister today saying Tokyo 's patience on North Korea 's decision is running out .
Nobutaka Machimura told the news agency that Japan is neither optimistic nor pessimistic about the talks resuming anytime soon .
Spain 's mixed capitalist economy is the 12th largest in the world , and its per capita income roughly matches that of Germany and France .
However , after almost 15 years of above average GDP growth , the Spanish economy began to slow in late 2007 and entered into a recession in the second quarter of 2008 .
GDP contracted by 3.7 % in 2009 , ending a 16-year growth trend , and by another 0.2 % in 2010 , making Spain the last major economy to emerge from the global recession .
The reversal in Spain 's economic growth reflected a significant decline in construction amid an oversupply of housing and falling consumer spending , while exports actually have begun to grow .
Government efforts to boost the economy through stimulus spending , extended unemployment benefits , and loan guarantees did not prevent a sharp rise in the unemployment rate , which rose from a low of about 8 % in 2007 to 20 % in 2010 .
The government budget deficit worsened from 3.8 % of GDP in 2008 to 9.2 % of GDP in 2010 , more than three times the euro-zone limit .
Spain 's large budget deficit and poor economic growth prospects have made it vulnerable to financial contagion from other highly-indebted euro zone members despite the government 's efforts to cut spending , privatize industries , and boost competitiveness through labor market reforms .
Spanish banks ' high exposure to the collapsed domestic construction and real estate market also poses a continued risk for the sector .
The government oversaw a restructuring of the savings bank sector in 2010 , and provided some $ 15 billion in capital to various institutions .
Investors remain concerned that Madrid may need to bail out more troubled banks .
The Bank of Spain , however , is seeking to boost confidence in the financial sector by pressuring banks to come clean about their losses and consolidate into stronger groups .
The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari became the Central African Republic upon independence in 1960 .
After three tumultuous decades of misrule - mostly by military governments - civilian rule was established in 1993 and lasted for one decade .
President Ange-Felix PATASSE 's civilian government was plagued by unrest , and in March 2003 he was deposed in a military coup led by General Francois BOZIZE , who established a transitional government .
Though the government has the tacit support of civil society groups and the main parties , a wide field of candidates contested the municipal , legislative , and presidential elections held in March and May of 2005 in which General BOZIZE was affirmed as president .
The government still does not fully control the countryside , where pockets of lawlessness persist .
Unrest in the neighboring nations of Chad , Sudan , and the DRC continues to affect stability in the Central African Republic as well .
A Japanese energy company says Tokyo has given it permission to drill in a gas field in the East China Sea along a disputed sea border with China .
Teikoku Oil said Japan 's Economy , Trade and Industry Ministry informed the company Thursday , it can explore the deep-sea gas deposits .
The area is inside territory that Japan regards as its exclusive economic zone , but Beijing disputes the demarcation .
China says a Japanese authorization of drilling in the area will infringe on China 's sovereignty and complicate the situation in the East China Sea .
Japan and China have been feuding over a range of territorial and diplomatic disputes , including claims to the undersea gas deposits .
The U.S. State Department 's annual human rights report , released Tuesday , says some African countries are making progress , while others are regressing or lagging behind .
The report praises Liberia , noting that President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has dismissed some corrupt officials , and that her government is investigating war crimes committed during the country 's civil war .
But the U.S. report has harsh words for Zimbabwe , saying the Mugabe government continues " across-the-board " human rights violations .
The report is even harder on Eritrea 's government , which it says continues to be one of the most repressive in sub-Saharan Africa .
There is especially strong criticism of Sudan .
The report says the Sudanese government and government-backed Janjaweed militia bear responsibility for what the U.S. calls the genocide in Darfur .
Security forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina have detained a former Bosnian Serb paramilitary leader suspected of crimes against humanity during the Balkan conflict of the 1990s .
Authorities say they picked up Momir Savic in the southeastern town of Visegrad .
Prosecutors issued a warrant for Savic 's arrest on suspicion of war crimes against Muslim civilians in the Visegrad area in 1992 , as ethnic Serb forces killed or expelled most of the Muslims and Croats from eastern Bosnia .
Authorities gave no further details .
The Bosnian conflict formally ended with the 1995 Dayton Accord , which divided the country into two entities , the Bosnian Serb Republic and the Muslim-Croat Federation .
A cease-fire due to be signed Friday by the Ugandan government and rebels to end an 18-year war in the north of the country has been postponed .
The delay was announced as negotiators on both sides tried to hammer out unresolved parts of the proposed cease-fire agreement during meetings in the northern district of Kitgum , near the Sudanese border .
A new date for its signing has not been decided .
The chief mediator for the Ugandan government , Betty Bigombe , said Thursday the agreement could clear the way for formal negotiations on ending the conflict .
The northern-based Lord 's Resistance Army has fought to overthrow the Ugandan government since 1987 , displacing more than one million people .
Its rebels are notorious for attacking civilians and kidnapping children .
An al-Qaida Internet statement says a Saudi militant killed in 2004 was supposed to have been the 20th suicide plane hijacker in the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
The statement says Osama bin Laden chose Turki bin Fuheid al-Muteiry to be the 20th attacker .
It says the militant , who also went by the name Fawaz al-Nashmi , did not take part because of the timing of the September 11 attacks .
Most of the 19 hijackers were Saudi nationals .
U.S. officials have called Zacarias Moussaoui the 20th hijacker .
He confessed to a role in the attacks and is serving life in prison .
But bin Laden said in a tape earlier this year that Moussaoui had nothing to do with September 11 .
Muteiry died in a shootout with Saudi security forces in 2004 after the militant allegedly took part in an attack on foreigners in the oil city of Khobar .
An international journalism advocacy group says the U.S.-based Yahoo Internet company works regularly with Chinese police to supply information on dissidents who use its service .
In a statement issued Thursday , the Paris-based organization Reporters Without Borders called on Yahoo to release a list of all the dissidents on whom it has provided data .
The group says it has discovered that Yahoo provided information relating to the arrest of at least two jailed dissidents , one in 2003 and the other last year .
Reporters Without Borders says the men received sentences of eight and 10 years , both based on electronic data supplied by Yahoo .
Yahoo spokeswoman Mary Osako says that when the company receives subpoenas it is not usually told how the information is being used .
A U.S. congressional committee will hold a hearing next week on ethical responsibilities of Internet companies .
The United States says it has temporarily suspended the resettlement of at least 6,000 Hmong refugees from Thailand , after at least a score of refugees already in the U.S. were diagnosed with tuberculosis .
At least 20 refugees infected with the disease are in the western U.S. state of California .
Health officials say 11 of the patients are children .
A handful of other cases were located in the midwestern states of Minnesota and Wisconsin .
The U.S. has resettled at least 9,000 Hmong refugees living in the Wat Tham Krabok camp since June of last year .
Officials say they will begin enhanced medical treatment and screenings at the camp .
The suspension is expected to last for up to six months .
The Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate in 1892 and a colony in 1915 ; they were captured by the Japanese in the Pacific War in 1941 .
The islands of Makin and Tarawa were the sites of major US amphibious victories over entrenched Japanese garrisons in 1943 .
The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in 1971 and complete independence in 1979 under the new name of Kiribati .
The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with Kiribati .
A remote-controlled bomb ripped through the vehicle of an influential pro-government figure in southern Afghanistan Friday , wounding several people and killing at least two others .
Tribal elder Mullah Naqib , as well as some of his family members and guards , were wounded in the blast as their vehicle crossed a bridge in Kandahar province .
Naqib also was a commander during the resistance to the Soviet occupation in the 1980s .
Witnesses say two bystanders also were killed .
In separate news , authorities in northern Afghanistan say police Friday detained eight suspects in connection with Thursday 's killing of a German aid worker .
It is not clear if the suspects were militants or bandits .
The foreign aid worker was killed when gunmen attacked his vehicle in Sari Pul province .
The assailants robbed three Afghan nationals traveling with him .
Thousands of New Orleans residents are returning to their homes and businesses Friday , as clean-up efforts continue after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
Many residents who live in reopened areas of the city , including the French Quarter and Garden District , have been permitted to return with proof of residency .
Utility crews continue to work on restoring electricity and providing drinkable water .
Some business owners returned to the city on Thursday , and many are dealing with both structural damage and losses from looting .
Police say they are investigating whether some police officers took part in looting after Hurricane Katrina .
Police spokesman Marlon Defillo says the investigation centers on about 12 officers who allegedly took non-essential items from store shelves .
U.S. military documents show American forces in Iraq have detained the wives of suspected insurgents in an effort to pressure the suspects to surrender .
The documents are among the thousands released under a court order to meet a request from the American Civil Liberties Union for information under the U.S. Freedom of Information Act .
They discuss two instances in 2004 .
In one , a secretive task force detained for two days a mother of three young children , including a nursing six-month old , to " leverage " her husband into surrendering .
In the second case , U.S. Army personnel discuss via e-mail an undisclosed number of female detainees , with one saying he believes the women had information or could lead the soldiers to their husbands .
A Pentagon spokesman said it is difficult to determine what happened from the documents , but he added the military thoroughly examines allegations of misconduct or abuse .
Crude oil prices soared to record highs of $ 70.80 a barrel because of Hurricane Katrina 's feared impact on crude oil production in the Gulf of Mexico .
Prices eased slightly in later trading .
About one-quarter of U.S. crude oil production comes from the Gulf coast area , and many key refineries and import facilities are on land nearby .
Last year , a different hurricane damaged energy facilities in the same area , prompting oil prices to jump 22 percent in one month .
U.S. oil refineries have been having trouble meeting rising oil demand , and analysts say production slowdowns could spark even higher prices .
The European Union says Israel 's plan to raze Palestinian houses in East Jerusalem is illegal under international law .
EU foreign affairs chief Catherine Ashton said Wednesday the demolition of the 22 homes would be " an obstacle to peace . "
Israel plans to replace the homes , located in the al-Bustan neighborhood in Silwan district , with an archaeological park .
Protests in the neighborhood have occurred repeatedly in recent months , but escalated after Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat approved the controversial redevelopment plan earlier this month .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said last week the planned demolitions and further Israeli activity " are contrary to international law and to the wishes of Palestinian residents . "
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Jordan 's King Abdullah II also denounced the plans , and U.S. officials have warned the project could further threaten Middle East peace efforts .
A CERTAIN City desiring to purchase a site for a public Deformatory procured an appropriation from the Government of the country .
Deeming this insufficient for purchase of the site and payment of reasonable commissions to themselves , the men in charge of the matter asked for a larger sum , which was readily given .
Believing that the fountain could not be dipped dry , they applied for still more and more yet .
Wearied at last by their importunities , the Government said it would be damned if it gave anything .
So it gave nothing and was damned all the harder .
Reports from Rangoon say the military government of Burma quietly sentenced a Buddhist monk to seven years in prison during the visit this week of a United Nations human rights envoy .
A lawyer said Saturday that U Gaw Thita was arrested last August as he returned from a trip to Taiwan .
He was convicted at Burma 's notorious Insein Prison Wednesday on three charges including unlawful association .
The lawyer said the monk was also convicted of failing to declare possession of foreign currency and for violation of immigration laws for taking the trip .
U.S.-based coffee chain Starbucks has announced plans to close 600 stores in the United States in the next year due to the weak U.S. economy .
The Seattle , Washington-based coffee seller announced the move on Tuesday during a conference call with reporters .
The company says about 12,000 employees , or seven percent of its global workforce , will lose their jobs because of the closures .
It says it will open fewer than 200 stores in 2009 .
Starbucks ' Chief Financial Officer , Peter Bocian , said many of the stores being closed were located near other Starbucks stores .
Because of the company 's aggressive expansion practice , it is not uncommon in the United States to see two of the shops within blocks of or even across the street from each other .
The company also has been expanding worldwide , operating in 45 countries .
Iraqi officials say at least 30 people have been killed and more than 40 others wounded in a car bomb attack on a police station in a Shi'ite town north of Baghdad .
Friday 's attack in Dujail in Salahuddin province occurred when many people were on the streets just before the breaking of the fast during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Some of the victims were policemen .
No one has claimed responsibility , but the attack resembled similar bombings carried out by al-Qaida in Iraq .
In other news , the U.S. military says Iraqi and coalition forces have killed two terrorists and detained 13 suspects during operations targeting al-Qaida in Iraq .
The heaviest snowfall in five years has blanketed Japan 's capital of Tokyo , causing injuries and disrupting transportation .
In its first snowfall of the winter , downtown Tokyo had six centimeters of snow by afternoon Saturday , while neighboring Yokohama was blanketed by eight centimeters .
The weather forced flight cancellations and bullet train delays .
The snowfall forced Narita airport , Tokyo 's main international gateway , to close one of its two runways for about an hour for snow removal .
Several people suffered injuries after slipping on the wet snow .
The Tokyo area had so far missed out on the season 's record snowfalls , which have claimed the lives of more than 100 people , mostly in northern Japan and coastal areas on the Sea of Japan .
Tabare Vazquez has taken office as Uruguay 's first leftist president .
Thousands of flag-waving supporters crowded outside the Congress building in Montevideo , where Mr. Vazquez was sworn in Tuesday for a five-year term .
The 65-year-old president is a cancer specialist and former mayor of Montevideo .
He came to power on pledges to help the country 's poor , and is also expected to restore diplomatic relations with Cuba .
Cuban leader Fidel Castro canceled his plans to attend the inauguration for health reasons .
Among those attending the inauguration were the presidents of Bolivia , Chile , Paraguay and Peru as well as Spain 's Crown Prince Felipe .
The U.S. delegation was led by Labor Secretary Elaine Chao .
Two Britons have appeared in a London court to answer charges of leaking a sensitive government memo on reported comments by President Bush about bombing the headquarters of the Arab satellite TV channel Al-Jazeera .
Civil Servant David Keogh and former government researcher Leo O'Connor face charges of violating Britain 's official Secrets Act that bans such disclosures .
The court put off further hearings until January 10th .
Last week , a British newspaper , the Daily Mirror , reported that a leaked British government memo had described a 2004 meeting between Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bush .
The report quoted the memo as saying Mr. Bush discussed plans to bomb al-Jazeera headquarters in Qatar , but that Mr. Blair talked him out of it .
Monday , Mr. Blair denied receiving information about a plot to bomb the station .
The White House has dismissed the report as " outlandish . "
U.S. Treasury officials have arrived in South Korea to discuss ways to stop North Korea 's alleged illegal financial activities .
Daniel Glaser , deputy assistant secretary for terrorist financing and financial crimes , will stay in Seoul until Tuesday to discuss North Korea 's counterfeiting of U.S. currency and money laundering .
Glaser visited Hong Kong and Macau from Tuesday through Friday as part of a larger Asian tour that also includes stops in Beijing , and Tokyo .
The United States has slapped sanctions on companies it suspects of aiding North Korea in counterfeiting , money laundering and the drug trade .
U.S. officials have also blacklisted eight North Korean companies in connection with weapons proliferation .
North Korea says it will boycott six-part nuclear disarmament talks until the sanctions are lifted .
Iraqi police say at least 11 people have been killed by gunfire after a roadside bombing near Sadr City , a Shi'ite militia stronghold in Baghdad .
Local officials say the gunfire erupted Wednesday after roadside bombs exploded near a joint U.S.-Iraqi patrol in the Obeidi neighborhood .
The U.S. military , however , says none of its troops were involved .
Sadr City itself remained calm , a day after some 10,000 Iraqi troops began an operation aimed at bringing government control over the Shi'ite stronghold .
The operation is in line with a truce reached earlier this month between Iraq 's government and Shi'ite militiamen loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
Fighting in Sadr City has killed hundreds of people since late March , when Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki ordered a crackdown on Shi'ite militias .
Police in southeastern Nigeria have clashed with separatist protesters demanding the release of their leader .
Authorities used tear gas and fired live rounds to disperse youths who blocked roads in the city of Ontisha Monday .
The separatist group MASSOB says three people were killed - a claim police have denied .
The group , which advocates independence for Nigeria 's Biafra region , had called for a two-day shutdown of business in the region to protest the detention of leader Ralph Uwazurike .
Millions of ethnic Ibos stayed at home Monday , with reports saying some supported the protest while others were fearful of trouble .
An Ibo attempt to break Biafra away from Nigeria in 1967 led to a three-year civil war in which more than one million people died .
Burma 's military government has begun a crackdown on the country 's illegal car trade , ordering the owners of an estimated 30,000 unregistered vehicles to relinquish their automobiles to police stations .
A police official , Director-General Khin Yee , says people who do so will avoid legal action and interrogation .
News reports say the crackdown could be part of Rangoon 's power struggle against former allies of ousted Prime Minister General Khin Nyunt .
He allegedly controlled operations that brought luxury cars from China and Thailand into Burma , where they were sold at a small percentage of their regular cost .
Some owners of illegal cars are reportedly dismantling their vehicles so they can sell spare parts .
Members of the Organization of American States meet in Washington Monday to elect a new secretary-general .
Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez and Chile 's interior minister , Jose Miguel Insulza , are running to succeed Miguel Angel Rodriguez , who abruptly resigned in October after only two weeks on the job because of corruption charges in his native Costa Rica .
Mr. Insulza is said to have the backing of the majority of Caribbean countries in the 34-nation OAS .
A third candidate with strong U.S. backing , former El Salvadoran President Francisco Flores , dropped out of the race last Friday .
The organization is facing a major financial shortage .
Total contributions from its members last year amounted to $ 67 million , at least $ 12 million short of its annual budget .
A Palestinian suicide bomber has killed three Israelis at the entrance to a West Bank settlement .
The Israeli military says the Israelis were apparently giving a ride in their car to a Palestinian hitchhiker when he blew himself up near the settlement of Kedumim .
Witnesses say the bomber was disguised as a religious Jew .
Media reports say the victims included an elderly couple and a young girl .
The Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , an offshoot of the Fatah Party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , claimed responsibility for the attack .
The group said the bomber was a 24-year-old man from the West Bank town of Hebron .
Spanish police have arrested an Algerian man charged with providing logistical support to a suspected coordinator of the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States .
Authorities say they arrested the man , identified as Tahar Izerouel , late Tuesday .
He was charged earlier this week along with seven other terrorist suspects .
The Algerian was still at large when formally charged and anti-terrorism judge Baltasar Garzon ordered his arrest .
All eight were accused of providing false identity papers and other documents to Ramzi Binalshibh .
He is in U.S. custody , suspected of being the contact between al-Qaida and the September 11 hijackers .
The world 's second-largest food and beverage company says it will reduce the saturated fat , sodium , and sugar in its products to make them more nutritious .
Pepsi says it will cut up to one-quarter of the unhealthy ingredients by 2020 , and improve labels to give consumers clearer information on what they are eating .
Several other major processed food manufacturers – Kraft , ConAgra , and Campbell Soup – have also announced cuts in sodium .
Last week Pepsi said it would continue a program to take its high-calorie soft-drinks out of schools and replace them with less-fattening alternatives .
The action by various companies comes as First Lady Michelle Obama has been campaigning for healthier foods and more physical activities in schools to fight childhood obesity .
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which the Monkey stood up and danced .
Having vastly delighted the assembly , he sat down amidst universal applause .
The Camel , envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to divert to himself the favor of the guests , proposed to stand up in his turn and dance for their amusement .
He moved about in so utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts , in a fit of indignation , set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the assembly .
It is absurd to ape our betters .
The International Criminal Court has ordered the release of former Congolese militia leader Thomas Lubanga following a delay in his trial .
Prosecutors have been given five days to appeal his release .
Lubanga is accused of using child soldiers in clashes involving his Union of Congolese Patriots militia during 2002 and 2003 in the Democratic Republic of Congo 's Ituri district .
Lubanga 's trial was suspended last month after the court ruled that prosecutors inhibited his defense team by refusing to share documents that could help establish his innocence .
Some four million people were killed in conflict or by disease and hunger during Congo 's civil war from 1998 to 2003 .
Militia and rebel groups continue to be active in parts of eastern Congo , mainly North Kivu province .
Japan has urged China not to escalate a conflict over natural gas exploration in a disputed area of the East China Sea .
Japan announced Wednesday it will begin reviewing applications for exploring for deep sea natural gas fields in the area .
Beijing , which also claims exploration rights , called the move a provocation .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said Thursday , China should not overreact to a project that could benefit both countries .
Tokyo 's relations with China were already at a low over a new Japanese history textbook that critics say glosses over Japan 's wartime occupation of China and other nations .
Several Japanese government agencies reported cyber attacks on their web sites Thursday .
Earlier this week there were violent protests in China against Japan , and a Chinese consulate in Japan , has also received threats .
Haitian-born musician and humanitarian Wyclef Jean is considering running for president of Haiti .
Jean 's family released a statement Tuesday , saying that the Grammy Award-winning musician is " committed to his homeland , " but he has not formally announced an intent to run for president of the earthquake-shattered nation .
In an interview with CNN , Jean , who grew up in the United States , said he has filled out the necessary paperwork in case he does decide to move forward with a candidacy .
Presidential candidates have until August 7 to register .
Jean is the founder of the Yele Haiti Foundation , a charity for Haiti that has been active in rebuilding efforts following the devastating earthquake in January .
Current Haitian President René Preval is ineligible to run for a third term .
Mr. Preval has set the country 's presidential and legislative elections for November 28 .
The U.S. director of national intelligence says the Venezuelan government continues to push an anti-U.S. , radical leftist agenda among its Latin American neighbors .
In his annual report to the U.S. Congress Tuesday , intelligence director Mike McConnell said the gradual consolidation of democracy continued to be the dominant trend in Latin America over the last year .
But he said that leaders in Bolivia , Nicaragua and more tentatively , Ecuador , have engaged in sharply anti-U.S. rhetoric inspired and supported by Venezuela and Cuba .
McConnell also said Venezuela has increasingly become a major departure point for South American drugs such as cocaine bound for the U.S. He said President Hugo Chavez 's lack of cooperation with international anti-narcotics programs has undermined efforts by neighboring nations by providing traffickers alternative routes .
McConnnell also said recent actions by Cuba 's Provisional President Raul Castro indicate he is looking to make modest reforms to Cuba 's Communist economy .
Paul McCartney , one of two surviving members of the music group the Beatles , has arrived in Israel for his first concert in the Jewish state .
Thursday 's concert is part of the musician 's series called " Friendship First " that features performances in cities McCartney has not visited before .
The former Beatle says he hopes the concert will bring a message of peace to the Middle East .
Organizers say McCartney will perform at an outdoor venue in Tel Aviv for a crowd of at least 40,000 people .
In 1965 the Beatles were set to perform in Israel , but the concert was canceled after Israeli government officials said the band might be a corruptive influence .
The government formally apologized for the 1965 cancellation earlier this year .
A Republican and a Democrat were walking down the street when they came to a homeless person .
The republican gave the homeless person his business card and told him come to his business for a job .
He then took twenty dollars out of his pocket and gave it to the homeless person .
The Democrat was very impressed , and when they came to another homeless person , He decided to help .
He walked over to the homeless person and gave him directions to the welfare office .
He then reached into the Republicans pocket and gave him fifty dollars .
Afghan government and security officials say Afghan forces have surrounded more than 200 Taleban insurgents in the south .
Provincial officials say the militants have been trapped in Uruzgan province since Sunday .
But an Afghan regional commander , General Rahmetullah Raufi , said there is no campaign to surround insurgents there .
And a spokesman for NATO said he has no information about fighting in Uruzgan .
Despite the opposing accounts , Afghan officials say a key Taleban commander , Mullah Dadullah , might be among the trapped militants .
But a Taleban spokesman disputes this , saying Dadullah is not even in Uruzgan .
In a separate development in the south , General Raufi Tuesday said Afghan and NATO forces clashed with Taleban insurgents in Zabul province .
He said 11 Taleban militants were killed .
He added that there were no casualties among Afghan or NATO troops .
Mexican lawmakers have approved legislation that restricts smoking in bars and restaurants and prohibits it in other enclosed public places across the country .
Under the new measure , smoking will be banned in indoor workplaces and public buildings .
The law will prohibit the sale of individual cigarettes , which is common practice among street vendors .
Smoking in bars and restaurants will only be permitted in separate rooms or ventilated areas .
Businesses that violate the anti-smoking law could be fined more than $ 40,000 .
The bill must still be signed by President Felipe Calderon .
Other countries that have enacted restrictions on smoking include France , Thailand and Turkey .
Iraqi police have found at least 10 more bodies in Baghdad - the latest victims of apparent sectarian violence .
The discovery of the bodies comes after the special United Nations investigator on torture said torture in Iraq may be worse now than it was when Saddam Hussein was in power .
In Geneva Thursday , Manfred Nowak said torture in Iraq is - as he put it - " totally out of hand . "
In other violence Friday , a roadside bomb killed an American soldier in eastern Baghdad .
A senior U.S. general in Iraq , Major General James Thurman , told reporters at the Pentagon Friday that he would like about 3,000 more Iraqi soldiers to join the effort to end violence in Baghdad .
The general said currently there are 15,000 U.S. troops taking part in the security operation in Baghdad , but only 9,000 Iraqi soldiers .
Sources close to Iraqi Shi'ite leader Abdul Aziz al-Hakim say the cleric has died .
Hakim was being treated for lung cancer at a hospital in Iran , and those close to the man said his health was deteriorating .
A family member and an aide to Hakim , speaking on the condition of anonymity , separately told reporters Wednesday that he had suffered a setback .
Hakim was known for his close links with Iran , and he led the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council , one of Iraq 's most powerful Shi'ite groups .
In June , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani visited Hakim in Tehran , where the ailing cleric was seeking treatment .
French smokers are savoring their last cigarettes in cafes as strict new smoking bans are to take effect in the country and much of Germany .
The French ban formally started with the New Year , but authorities say they are delaying enforcement until Wednesday .
French Health Minister Roselyne Bachelot on Monday rejected calls for last-minute changes to the ban , which covers smoking in all in public places .
Some establishments say the ban will hurt business .
The French smoking ban applies to restaurants , bars , cafes and night clubs , and in February it will expand to offices , schools , airports and a number of other enclosed public spaces .
In Germany , legislation requiring smoke-free areas in bars and restaurants has gone into effect in eight of 16 states .
The law covers Bavaria , Berlin , Brandenburg , Bremen , Hamburg , Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania , Saxony-Anhalt and Schleswig-Holstein .
Hundreds of Uzbek refugees have left Kyrgyzstan for Romania more than two months after fleeing a deadly government crackdown in their Central Asian nation .
A U.N. Refugee Agency official says 440 refugees boarded a plane early Friday and flew to the Romanian capital , Bucharest .
Among them were 14 of 29 refugees that were being held for extradition to Uzbekistan for alleged crimes .
The U.N. agency is trying to secure the release of the other 15 refugees pending court rulings on their extradition .
U.N. officials say the refugees on today 's flight to Romania will be placed in a camp until they can be resettled in other countries .
Hundreds of Uzbeks took refuge in Kyrgyzstan after a May 13 uprising in the city of Andijan was violently put down by security forces .
Uzbekistan says all the refugees are criminals who should be repatriated .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has lashed out once again at the United States , calling President Bush an " assassin " and a " crazy man . "
Mr. Chavez made the comments Thursday in a speech in Caracas after U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Shannon strongly criticized the Venezuelan government in testimony to a congressional committee .
Mr. Shannon told the committee Thursday that Mr. Chavez is a threat to democracy , and is a destabilizing factor in Latin America .
The United States has had tense relations with the Chavez government .
The Venezuelan leader has repeatedly accused the United States of planning to invade Venezuela and topple his government .
Washington denies any such plans .
Despite the harsh rhetoric between the two nations , Venezuela remains a chief supplier of oil to the United States .
Pakistani police say at least five people have been killed in an ambush on a cricket match in the southwestern city of Quetta .
Police say the five - described as young men - were gunned down Friday by unidentified attackers on a motorcycle .
At least three other people were injured .
After the shooting , angry mobs blocked a nearby road .
The region 's chief minister , Nawab Raisani , visited the victims at the hospital .
He condemned the killings and told reporters attacks on unarmed civilians will not be tolerated .
Texas Governor Perry says thousands of refugees now sheltering in New Orleans ' Superdome arena will be moved to Houston 's Astrodome , some 500 kilometers west .
Some 23,000 people took shelter at the Superdome to escape the hurricane and rushing floodwaters .
Refugees have complained about worsening sanitary conditions there .
Governor Perry told reporters his state will to do whatever it can to help victims of Hurricane Katrina .
The governor said the children being temporarily housed in Texas will be able to enroll in local public schools .
He says he also spoke with Florida Governor Jeb Bush , about coordinating relief efforts .
Houston 's Astrodome - an engineering marvel when it first opened in 1965 - is used for events like concerts but has not been used for a sporting event in years .
Officials say it can house refugees at least through the end of December .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad has marked the 25th anniversary of the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war with a warning that any nation attacking the Islamic Republic will face a " destructive and fiery " response .
Speaking on Thursday at a military parade in Tehran , Mr. Ahmedinejad said Iran is serious about defending its security from its enemies .
He did not name any country , but Iran regularly refers to the United States and Israel as its chief adversaries .
The hardline president also insisted that Iran wants peace , stability and justice in international relations .
Thousands of troops and military hardware were on display at the parade , including six of Iran 's newest Shahab-3 ballistic missiles .
Analysts say the 1980 - 1988 war - in which the United States backed Iraq 's Saddam Hussein - was fought to a standstill .
Up to one million people died in the conflict .
Russia 's foreign minister says President Vladimir Putin has accepted an invitation to attend the upcoming NATO summit in Bucharest .
Sergei Lavrov said Tuesday that Mr. Putin will take part in the April meeting .
The alliance last month invited Mr. Putin to join its leaders at the summit for a session of the NATO-Russia Council .
The meetings will take place shortly before Mr. Putin is to step down as Russia 's president in May , after serving the maximum two consecutive terms permitted by the country 's constitution .
Russia has expressed strong opposition to plans by Ukraine and Georgia to seek NATO membership .
Alliance leaders and Mr. Putin created the NATO-Russia Council in 2002 as an organ for consultation , joint decisionmaking and joint action in such areas as crisis management , efforts to deal with terrorism and non-proliferation .
Housing construction rose strongly last month after three months of declines .
Tuesday 's report from the Department of Commerce said housing starts rose five percent in May .
That means if construction continued at the same pace for a full year , just under two million homes would be built .
But analysts said the increase was a statistical fluke as builders used unusually good weather to work through a backlog of orders .
Most economists say the U.S. housing market is cooling off as rising interest rates make it more expensive to finance a home .
Key officials of the U.S. central bank are scheduled to consider raising interest rates again at the end of this month in an effort to fend off inflation .
Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko says she is ready to accept any conditions necessary to revive the pro-Western ruling coalition she shares with the country 's president .
Ms. Tymoshenko says she will accept any ultimatum , if it will preserve her party 's alliance with President Viktor Yushchenko and avoid a protracted political crisis .
But she also warned Wednesday in Kyiv that Mr. Yushchenko is doing everything he can to maintain the political deadlock .
The Yushchneko-Tymoshenko coalition collapsed last month over differences on how Ukraine should respond to Russia 's military incursion into Georgia .
Talks to resuscitate the coalition have made little progress , and the president can call fresh parliamentary elections if no coalition is put into place this month .
Mr. Yushchenko and Ms. Tymoshenko were close allies during the 2004 Orange Revolution that brought the president to power .
They have since disagreed , reconciled and fallen out again .
Thousands of Pakistani lawyers protested again Thursday against President Pervez Musharraf 's suspension of the country 's chief justice .
Lawyers , opposition workers and rights activists marched through Lahore chanting slogans against General Musharraf .
Smaller protests were reported in several other cities .
The president suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry on March 9 for allegedly abusing his office .
Chaudhry 's removal has triggered many protests and sparked outrage among Pakistan 's judiciary and opposition parties .
On May 12 , 40 people were killed in street clashes between pro-government activists and opposition workers in the southern city of Karachi .
Critics of President Musharraf say he suspended the chief justice as part of efforts to ensure re-election by the current parliament .
Mr. Musharraf says he acted in accordance with judicial rules and his opponents have politicized the case .
Three architects have unveiled plans for a trio of skyscrapers to surround the World Trade Center site in New York City , which is being turned into a memorial to victims of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
Plans for the three buildings were unveiled Thursday , designed by Britons Norman Foster and Richard Rogers and Japanese national Fumihiko Maki .
The skyscrapers will flank the American-designed Freedom Tower , which will stand more than 540 meters high - the tallest building in New York .
The rebuilding of the World Trade Center site has been repeatedly delayed by insurance and security concerns , as well as arguments over the design of the memorial .
Construction of the Freedom Tower is set to begin next year .
The entire site is expected to be completed by 2012 .
A press spokesman for the U.S. Trade Representative , Neena Moorjani , says delays are common in free trade talks .
Moorjani would not comment on any link between the political storm over DP World and the delay in the talks .
But a major business group says the controversy over the ports deal could hurt Washington 's ability to promote free trade around the world and foreign investment here at home .
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says foreigners invest $ 80 billion in the United States a year , creating five million jobs .
Afghan police say at least 40 Taleban militants have been killed during an operation by NATO and Afghan forces in southern Helmand province .
Two separate battles took place in Gereshk district .
A police chief in the region said three Afghan policemen died during the fighting and five others were wounded .
At least eight Taleban fighters were captured .
Helmand province has seen heavy fighting between NATO and Taleban forces .
The region is Afghanistan 's top opium producer and has been plagued by attacks by Taleban and foreign militants .
NATO launched Operation Achilles in Helmand last month in an effort to preempt an anticipated spring offensive by Taleban fighters .
Last year , a resurgent Taleban movement carried out the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since the Taleban government was ousted by U.S.-led forces in 2001 .
A senior member of Tajikistan 's Islamic opposition party has died after spending five years in prison .
The Islamic Renaissance Party ( IRP ) says the group 's deputy leader , Shamsiddin Shamsiddinov , died from cancer on Wednesday .
Shamsiddinov was arrested in 2003 , and sentenced a year later to 16 years in prison for a series of charges including illegal border crossing and polygamy .
The IRP says he was targeted for his political views .
The IRP fought the former Soviet republic 's Moscow-backed government during a 1992 - 1997 civil war .
The party later entered a power-sharing agreement with the government .
In other news , Tajik security officials say more than 500 kilograms of illegal drugs were seized during a raid along the country 's border with Afghanistan Thursday .
Officials say several smugglers have also been detained .
Turkey says it is ready to sign a key EU customs agreement , but will also issue a declaration making clear the accord does not imply its official recognition of the Greek Cypriot government .
Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan , in London for talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair , said Wednesday Ankara would sign the EU protocol soon .
The accord extends Turkey 's custom union with the EU to its 10 new members - including Cyprus .
The agreement has been a key stumbling block for opening Turkey 's membership talks with Brussels , as Ankara only recognizes the Turkish enclave in northern Cyprus .
Mr. Blair , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , said it was important to restate that the agreement does not in any way legally involve Turkish recognition of Cyprus .
Ankara is due to start entry talks with EU officials in October .
Police in northern Nigeria say 36 people were killed late Saturday when two buses collided head-on and burst into flames .
A police spokesman says the accident occurred in the town of Birnin-Kudu in Jigawa state .
He says five people survived the crash and were being treated at a hospital .
A witness told the Associated Press that one of the buses was trying to overtake a small vehicle at a sharp bend when the accident occurred .
The witness said most of the people killed in the crash were " burnt beyond recognition . "
Security has been heightened on transit systems in the United States following the latest bombings in London .
An increased police presence was visible Friday in and around transit systems in cities including Boston , New York and Washington .
New York City police began randomly searching bags being taken into the city 's subway system .
Individuals who refuse to comply are being turned away from the station .
Police are also searching bags on New York City buses and commuter trains .
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg Thursday called the searches a little intrusive , but necessary .
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the police will not target people because of their ethnic background .
Civil liberty groups have expressed concern that searches could lead to racial profiling and violate an individual 's rights .
The centrist party of outgoing Bulgarian Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha has ended its efforts to form a new government , almost seven weeks after inconclusive parliamentary elections .
The centrists announced the failure of their efforts Thursday , two weeks after the Socialist Party also abandoned efforts to organize a new cabinet .
The Socialists outpolled the party led by Mr. Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha in the June 25 elections .
However , Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev could not muster enough support in the new parliament to form a coalition government .
News reports quote analysts as saying a lengthy political crisis could delay the implementation of reforms the European Union has declared necessary if Bulgaria is to join the bloc , as planned , in 2007 .
The U.S. motorcycle company Harley-Davidson opened its first authorized Chinese dealership Saturday in Beijing .
Company officials say they expect the motorcycle 's entry into the Chinese market to be a gradual one .
Many Chinese cities have restrictions on where motorcycles can be ridden .
The company says it hopes to address the riding restrictions over time .
Harley Davidson officials say that while China 's economy is booming , they also realize their motorcycles may be too expensive in a country where disposable income is limited .
Harley Davidson is based in the midwestern U.S. state of Wisconsin and has been making motorcycles for more than 100 years .
They are the only major U.S. motorcycle manufacturer .
They specialize in large , heavyweight bikes , often known as " hogs . "
Burmese authorities are distributing the names and photographs of activists wanted by police for their participation in a rare string of anti-government protests .
The military-run government has ordered local officials and the public to be on the look-out for the activists .
Many of the protesters have gone into hiding .
The opposition National League for Democracy says authorities detained more than 100 people last week , following a series of demonstrations against a steep increase in fuel prices .
Most of the protests took place in Rangoon , but the unrest spread to other parts of the country , highlighting the widespread frustration with rising prices in the impoverished country .
Plainclothes police officers and pro-military gangs have been patrolling cities to prevent further protests .
The United Nations top envoy on Burma has wrapped up a visit to India , where he says he had " candid discussions " with officials there about promoting change in military-ruled Burma .
A U.N. spokeswoman said that during Ibrahim Gambari 's meetings , the two sides agreed to acknowledge the positive steps Burma 's military leaders are taking .
They also agreed to encourage Burma to make further progress toward democratization and the respect of human rights .
Gambari told reporters in India that he plans to visit Burma soon , but did not give a specific date .
Gambari arrived in New Delhi earlier this week from Beijing where he also met with Chinese leaders to discuss Burma 's political situation .
Gambari is scheduled to travel next to Japan for further meetings .
Rights groups have criticized India and China 's continued investments in Burma , saying such ventures help support a government accused of human rights violations .
An uneasy calm has returned to a semi-autonomous tribal region in northwestern Pakistan where three days of fierce clashes between security forces and pro-Taleban militants killed more than 120 militants and five soldiers .
The government says troops gained control of the region 's main town of Miran Shah Tuesday , while talks between tribal elders and militants ' representatives were continuing .
However , a curfew imposed on the town Monday remained in force , although there were no reports of renewed fighting .
Army helicopter-gunships continued to circle overhead , while thousands of terrified residents fled the area fearing that violence could return .
The French news agency quotes a government official as saying Pakistani troops were searching for two pro-Taleban clerics accused of instigating the fighting near the Afghan border .
Russian and Iranian officials have met in Moscow for talks on a compromise deal allowing Iran to conduct uranium enrichment on Russian soil .
A Russian official was quoted by the Itar-Tass news agency as saying no breakthrough was made in the talks , which were aimed at resolving a dispute with the West over Iran 's nuclear activities .
In a joint statement , officials said discussions would continue at a future date .
Iran has said it agrees to the Russian deal in principle .
But Iran 's top negotiator , Ali Larijani , told reporters in Moscow Wednesday that his country has a sovereign right to enrich uranium for its nuclear reactors .
In Washington , a State Department spokesman Adam Ereli criticized the comments , saying it signaled a move in the wrong direction .
The United States and the European Union say Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons - a charge Tehran denies .
Israeli rescue and police officials say one person has been killed near Tel Aviv by a car bomb that was apparently linked to criminal activity and was not politically motivated .
Authorities say the explosion injured at least five bystanders Friday in the town of Rishon Letzion .
They say the bomb was placed in a car , and that the explosion killed the vehicle 's driver .
Israeli security forces have been tightening security across the nation before the start of the Jewish holy day of Yom Kippur on Sunday .
Palestinian suicide bombers often have carried out attacks ahead of major Jewish holidays .
Kuwait has a geographically small , but wealthy , relatively open economy with self-reported crude oil reserves of about 102 billion barrels - about 9 % of world reserves .
Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP , 95 % of export revenues , and 95 % of government income .
Kuwaiti officials have committed to increasing oil production to 4 million barrels per day by 2020 .
The rise in global oil prices throughout 2010 is reviving government consumption and economic growth as Kuwait experiences a 20 % increase in government budget revenue .
Kuwait has done little to diversify its economy , in part , because of this positive fiscal situation , and , in part , due to the poor business climate and the acrimonious relationship between the National Assembly and the executive branch , which has stymied most movement on economic reforms .
Nonetheless , the government in May 2010 passed a privatization bill that allows the government to sell assets to private investors , and in January passed an economic development plan that pledges to spend up to $ 130 billion in five years to diversify the economy away from oil , attract more investment , and boost private sector participation in the economy .
Increasing government expenditures by so large an amount during the planned time frame may be difficult to accomplish .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton will meet Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian as part of an ongoing Asian tour .
A Taiwanese foreign ministry spokesman told the Reuters news agency Mr. Clinton will deliver a speech on democracy and security after arriving in Taipei Sunday , following stops in South Korea and Japan , then have dinner with Mr. Chen .
The visit is likely to anger Beijing , which views Taiwan as a renegade province of China and objects to any participation by the island in international affairs .
Mr. Clinton visited Beijing earlier this week , where he praised efforts to combat the deadly AIDS virus , and pledged his foundation would donate drugs and offer training to doctors .
During visits to China as president , Mr. Clinton reiterated the U.S. policy of recognizing Beijing as China 's sole government .
Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery , the island was annexed and settlement began by the UK in 1888 .
Phosphate mining began in the 1890s .
The UK transferred sovereignty to Australia in 1958 .
Almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a national park .
North Korea 's ambassador to the United Nations , Han Song-ryol , says Pyongyang is willing to attend talks over its nuclear arms program if the United States promises peaceful coexistence and non-interference in the North 's internal affairs .
South Korea 's Joong-Ang newspaper quoted Mr. Han Saturday as saying Pyongyang would return to talks " in any form " if the United States drops its hostile policy toward the North .
Mr. Han singled out Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice 's designation of the North as an " outpost of tyranny " as representative of U.S. foreign policy .
Beijing sent the head of the Chinese Communist Party 's international department , Wang Jiarui , to North Korea Saturday , where he is expected to urge Pyongyang to rejoin six-party talks over its nuclear program .
Chinese state media say at least 51 people died in two travel accidents Sunday .
The official Xinhua news agency says at least 32 people were killed when a truck and a bus collided on an expressway in northeastern Liaoning province .
The accident occurred on a section of an expressway that was undergoing maintenance in the city of Fuxin .
In a separate incident , Xinhua said at least 19 people were killed early Sunday when a passenger train was hit by a landslide .
Officials say at least 71 others were injured when the train , bound for the tourist destination of Guilin , derailed in eastern Jiangxi province .
Firefighters pulled 53 survivors from mangled and overturned train carriages .
More than 280 people were evacuated .
Jiangxi province has been hit by heavy rains in recent days , flooding low-lying towns .
Venezuela has begun military instruction of civilian reservists who , according to officials there , would conduct guerilla warfare against foreign aggressors .
About 500,000 civilians have begun training .
They will train on weekends for four months of weapons and resistance tactics .
Venezuela 's president , Hugo Chavez , has accused the United States of plotting to invade his country .
Mr. Chavez has begun the civilian training program to build up a force capable of resisting a more powerful foreign force .
Washington has denied it has any plans to invade Venezuela and has warned that Mr. Chavez is becoming a threat to Venezuela 's democracy and regional stability .
Pop singer Elton John and his long-time male partner joined hundreds of other same-sex couples in exchanging vows under a new civil partnership law that went into effect Wednesday in England and Wales .
Mr. John and Canadian filmmaker David Furnish - partners for 12 years - took their vows in a ceremony at Windsor Guildhall , just west of London .
A large crowd turned out to see the couple , whose ceremony was held in the same building where Prince Charles married Camilla Parker-Bowles last April .
The new civil partnership law gives homosexual couples the same property and inheritance rights as heterosexual married couples , and it entitles them to the same pension , immigration and tax benefits .
The law took effect Wednesday in England and Wales , after becoming effective in Northern Ireland Monday and Scotland Tuesday .
Egyptian police have clashed with dozens of protesters criticizing President Hosni Mubarak 's bid to extend his 24-year rule .
Protest organizers say plainclothes officers Saturday attacked and arrested protesters , including leaders of the Kefaya opposition group .
Some of them were later released .
Critics of the government called the protest two days after Mr. Mubarak announced plans to compete for a fifth term in September voting .
It will be the first time he has faced challengers for the post , and it comes after the government approved electoral reforms .
Opposition leaders say Saturday 's violence was similar to clashes between police and protesters during a May referendum .
Last month , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Egypt and urged the government not to interfere with peaceful protests .
Thousands of people have marched through the streets of French cities in support of legislation designed to protect women against violence .
Up to 8,000 demonstrators turned out in Paris and about 1,000 in the southern port of Marseilles .
The demonstrators in Marseilles focused on the death of a 23-year-old Tunisian woman , Ghofrane Haddaoui , stoned to death in the city last month .
The Reuters news agency say authorities have arrested a 17-year-old boy in connection with the crime .
They are investigating a 16-year-old as an accomplice and another 17-year-old for failing to report the crime .
The French news agency also reported marches in Toulouse and Rennes .
Officials estimate that six women die in France as the result of domestic violence each month .
Pakistanis in large numbers have voted in local elections viewed as a test of President Pervez Musharraf 's commitment to fight Islamic extremism and restore democracy in the country .
Thursday 's first phase of the staggered elections was largely peaceful with some exceptions .
Police reported sporadic violence that left three people dead and more than 80 injured .
Authorities imposed tight security in nearly half of the country 's more than 100 districts , where voters are to elect more than 6,000 local councils .
A record number of more than 200,000 candidates , including several thousand women , are seeking council seats .
Political parties are not allowed to take part in the elections , but their factions are openly supporting candidates .
Voting in the remaining districts of Pakistan is set for next week .
U.S. officials have eased immigration rules for some Cubans seeking to leave the island to join family members who are U.S. residents .
The Department of Homeland Security says the new rules announced Friday are intended to increase chances for the reunification of families .
Officials say the changes allow U.S. residents to seek expedited visas for family members in Cuba , and will help relieve a backlog in immigration requests .
They say 7500 so-called family visas will be available .
Washington issues a total of about 20,000 visas to Cubans each year .
Cuba 's government must grant exit visas for people seeking to leave the island .
U.S. officials also said they are seeking to increase the punishments for human smugglers using maritime routes .
Bush administration officials have repeatedly called on Cubans in recent weeks to avoid making illegal boat crossings to the United States .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has emphasized the United States ' support for a nuclear deal with India , in a phone call Monday with Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee Monday .
The agreement would allow India to buy nuclear fuel and technology from the United States .
It has been stalled by debate among Indian lawmakers .
India 's communist politicians are threatening to pull out of the ruling coalition if the deal goes through .
They argue that the deal will undermine India 's independent foreign policy and nuclear weapons program .
The U.S. suspended nuclear trade with New Delhi in 1974 , when India conducted a nuclear test without signing a nuclear nonproliferation treaty .
Police in Pakistan say they have detained at least 19 Islamic activists in the eastern city of Lahore after they vowed to defy a ban on rallies protesting controversial cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad .
Police say the activists were detained during raids that began early Saturday .
Pakistan banned public rallies in the central province of Punjab following a violent protest in the past week in the provincial capital , Lahore .
Two people were killed .
Radical Islamic leaders said they would defy the ban and stage a protest rally Sunday .
Separately , more than 1,000 Muslims in Hong Kong staged a sit-in protest Sunday , condemning the publication of cartoons .
The 12 cartoons first appeared in a Danish newspaper in September and have been reprinted in other European newspapers .
One cartoon depicts the Prophet Muhammad as a terrorist .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has arrived in the Middle East for talks on advancing the region 's peace process .
Mr. Annan met with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Jerusalem Sunday , and plans to travel to the West Bank town of Ramallah on Monday to meet with Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas .
World leaders have expressed hope for the peace process since last month 's Mideast summit , where Mr. Sharon and Mr. Abbas declared an end to four years of violence .
The process hit a snag this week when talks on Israel handing over security control in several West Bank cities ended without agreement .
Meanwhile , the Israeli government says it will dismantle 24 illegal West Bank settler outposts built since Mr. Sharon came to power in March 2001 .
A BALD KNIGHT , who wore a wig , went out to hunt .
A sudden puff of wind blew off his hat and wig , at which a loud laugh rang forth from his companions .
He pulled up his horse , and with great glee joined in the joke by saying , " What a marvel it is that hairs which are not mine should fly from me , when they have forsaken even the man on whose head they grew . "
Thy pride is but the prologue of thy shame
Masked gunmen have stormed a mosque in Somalia 's Puntland region , killing at least five preachers from Pakistan .
Witnesses say the gunmen forced the Islamic preachers out of the Tawfiq Mosque in Galkayo on Wednesday , and killed them nearby .
Five of the preachers died at the scene .
Two other men were wounded .
No one has claimed responsibility for the shooting .
Puntland , a semi-autonomous region , has been relatively peaceful compared to the Somali capital , Mogadishu , which sees near-daily violence and killing .
Somalia has not had an effective government for 18 years , since 1991 when warlords overthrew longtime dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and plunged the country into civil war .
The economy consists primarily of tourism , subsistence agriculture , and fishing .
The government is the major employer of the work force relying heavily on financial assistance from the US .
The Compact of Free Association with the US , entered into after the end of the UN trusteeship on 1 October 1994 , provided Palau with up to $ 700 million in US aid for the following 15 years in return for furnishing military facilities .
Business and tourist arrivals numbered 85,000 in 2007 .
The population enjoys a per capita income roughly 50 % higher than that of the Philippines and much of Micronesia .
Long-run prospects for the key tourist sector have been greatly bolstered by the expansion of air travel in the Pacific , the rising prosperity of leading East Asian countries , and the willingness of foreigners to finance infrastructure development .
Venezuela has begun using a new currency system in an effort to slow the country 's rate of inflation .
The " strong bolivar " began circulating on January 1 .
The money was created by taking three trailing zeroes off the value of the former currency , the bolivar .
Officials say the new currency will simplify transactions and lower inflation .
Venezuela 's inflation rate in 2007 was more than 20 percent , the highest in the region .
Critics say they doubt the new currency will stabilize rising prices .
The official exchange rate is 2.15 new bolivars to the dollar .
But the black market exchange rate is more than five new bolivars to the dollar .
The Venezuelan government is also re-introducing the locha , a coin worth one eighth of a strong bolivar .
The locha has not been in circulation since the 1970s .
This isolated island was named for John CLIPPERTON , a pirate who made it his hideout early in the 18th century .
Annexed by France in 1855 , it was seized by Mexico in 1897 .
Arbitration eventually awarded the island to France , which took possession in 1935 .
The governor of the U.S. state of Colorado has declared a state of emergency as heavy snowstorms hamper holiday travelers and mail delivery on one of the highest-volume days of the year .
The storm struck Wednesday and continued Thursday across much of the United States ' central plains region .
Some areas are buried under 61 centimeters of snow .
Thousands of travelers are stranded at Denver International Airport , with all flights canceled .
Major roads through the Rocky Mountains are closed .
Officials have reported numerous traffic crashes .
Mail delivery also has stopped in many areas .
December 21 is traditionally one of the highest-volume mailing days of the year , as people rush to get greeting cards and gifts to loved ones before Christmas Day , December 25 .
Bolivia 's Finance Minister has resigned over comments he is said to have made in the United States about alleged financial ties between Bolivia 's opposition and the leaders of Cuba and Venezuela .
In a communiqué read by Luis Carlos Jemio on Monday , he said his comments were taken out of context by some media .
He specifically named the Associated Press .
But he added that VOA reported his comments correctly .
During a conference Friday at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington , Mr. Jemio said he had heard about alleged financial links between Bolivian opposition leader Evo Morales and Presidents Fidel Castro of Cuba and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela - but that they were no more than speculation .
The Associated Press reported him as affirming there are links .
Mr. Jemio says he has asked the Associated Press for a retraction .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is in the United Arab Emirates , the first stop of a regional tour to discuss the Middle East peace process .
Mr. Mubarak met Tuesday with UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan .
The Emirates official WAM news agency says the UAE president stressed the need to revive Middle East peace talks .
The news agency quotes Mr. Mubarak as saying his visit to the UAE is part of continuous consultations on issues , including the status of Palestinians .
Peace talks between the Palestinians and Israel stalled after an Israeli moratorium on West Bank settlement construction expired in September .
The UAE and Egyptian leaders also discussed ways to promote trade and strengthen diplomatic ties .
Mr. Mubarak will also visit Qatar and Bahrain .
Police say unknown attackers have killed at least seven police officers in central Pakistan .
The attack happened early Saturday near the town of Mianwali , in Punjab province .
Police say militants first opened fire on a police checkpoint and then blew it up with explosives .
The outpost building was destroyed in the blast .
Security officials say it is not clear who is behind the attack .
Mianwali is near the restive North West Frontier Province , where Pakistani security forces have been battling pro-Taliban militants .
NATO says a suicide car bomber attacked one of its convoys in western Afghanistan 's Farah province , wounding one soldier .
Apart from the suicide bomber , no one was killed in the blast .
In other violence , officials say a clash between police and Taliban militants left one rebel dead and two policemen injured .
The fighting also occurred in Farah province on Monday .
The Global Seed Vault opened near the North Pole on 26 February , and an Internet project aimed at promoting biodiversity went on line .
The so-called " doomsday " vault is in the remote Norwegian archipelago of Svalbard and is designed to protect millions of seeds from climate change and other disasters .
The Encyclopedia of Life web site is just a click away and is meant as a source of information about all living things .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has more .
A published report says the United States and Japan will declare for the first time in a joint agreement that Taiwan is a mutual security concern .
The Washington Post newspaper , citing a draft copy of the document , says the agreement will be announced after a meeting in Washington Saturday between Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and their Japanese counterparts .
The Post calls the move the most significant alteration since 1996 to the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance .
It follows an assessment earlier this week by CIA director Porter Goss that China 's military buildup is tilting the balance of power in the Taiwan Strait .
Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province and has threatened to attack the island if it moves toward independence .
Militant nationalists have claimed responsibility for a bomb blast in southwestern Pakistan that killed at least 11 people Friday .
The bomb exploded near a military truck in Quetta , the capital of Baluchistan province .
At least one of the dead was a Pakistani soldier .
At least 24 people were wounded .
The claim of responsibility came from a group calling itself the Baluchistan National Army , which said the military truck and its occupants were the intended target .
But most of the dead were civilians .
The blast also destroyed several vehicles and damaged nearby shops .
Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed condemned the bombing and said it would not go unpunished .
Recent violence in Baluchistan has been blamed on local struggles for greater autonomy and a bigger share of the province 's natural resources .
The conquest of Vietnam by France began in 1858 and was completed by 1884 .
It became part of French Indochina in 1887 .
Vietnam declared independence after World War II , but France continued to rule until its 1954 defeat by Communist forces under Ho Chi MINH .
Under the Geneva Accords of 1954 , Vietnam was divided into the Communist North and anti-Communist South .
US economic and military aid to South Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt to bolster the government , but US armed forces were withdrawn following a cease-fire agreement in 1973 .
Two years later , North Vietnamese forces overran the South reuniting the country under Communist rule .
Despite the return of peace , for over a decade the country experienced little economic growth because of conservative leadership policies , the persecution and mass exodus of individuals - many of them successful South Vietnamese merchants - and growing international isolation .
However , since the enactment of Vietnam 's " doi moi " ( renovation ) policy in 1986 , Vietnamese authorities have committed to increased economic liberalization and enacted structural reforms needed to modernize the economy and to produce more competitive , export-driven industries .
The Communist leaders , however , maintain control on political expression and have resisted outside calls to improve human rights .
The country continues to experience small-scale protests from various groups , the vast majority connected to land-use issues , calls for increased political space and the lack of equitable mechanisms for resolving disputes .
Various ethnic minorities , such as the Montagnards of the Central Highlands and the Khmer Krom in the southern delta region , have also held protests .
Cuban dissident Hector Palacios , 65 , has been unexpectedly freed from prison after three years .
The sociologist spoke to reporters at his home Wednesday , saying he was released because of his poor health .
He is reported to have heart problems .
Palacios was among 75 people jailed in March 2003 in a government crackdown on dissidents .
He was later sentenced to 25 years in prison for conspiring against Cuba with the United States .
A total of 15 others arrested in that crackdown have since been freed because of health problems .
Palacios 's wife is one of the Ladies in White , a group of wives of jailed dissidents who hold a weekly march to demand release for political prisoners .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice starts a tour of Central Asian countries Tuesday , to promote democratic and economic reforms , while securing support for the U.S.-led war on terrorism .
Ms. Rice stops first in Bishkek , the capital of Kyrgyzstan , where she is to hold talks with top government officials , including President Kurmanbek Bakiyev , and participate in a panel discussion on democracy and reforms .
She will also travel to Afghanistan , Kazakhstan and Tajikistan .
Monday , Ms. Rice said she also might visit Pakistan to show U.S. support for earthquake victims .
The trip does not include a stop in Uzbekistan .
A top State Department official has expressed concern over recent decisions by the Uzbek government and a " general climate of fear " in the country .
A U.N. conference on climate change has entered its final day , with a deal on long-term efforts to cut carbon emissions still elusive .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton is scheduled to speak to the meeting in Montreal , Canada , later Friday , highlighting the outsider status of the United States at the conference .
During his presidency , Mr. Clinton endorsed the Kyoto Protocol on reducing what are called greenhouse , or heat trapping , gas emissions in the atmosphere .
The Bush administration rejects the protocol as too costly and says it unfairly exempts developing nations such as China and India .
Mr. Clinton will appear in a private capacity .
Despite the U.S. position , delegates say ministers from more than 90 nations are close to agreeing on a negotiating plan to extend the Kyoto accord beyond 2012 , when it is set to expire .
South Korea says it hopes all parties to the six-nation talks on North Korea 's nuclear program will take active steps to ensure the success of the next round of negotiations .
South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-Moon also said Wednesday in Seoul that his chief nuclear negotiator , Song Min-soon will visit China and the United States before the next round of talks with North Korea .
In Washington Tuesday , the chief U.S. delegate to the talks , Christopher Hill , said Pyongyang 's agreement last month to abandon its nuclear programs could lead to regional peace and the eventual reunification of the Korean peninsula .
Mr. Hill also said his staff has held direct talks with North Korean diplomats in New York .
The fifth round of six-nation talks is scheduled for early next month in Beijing .
The World Anti-Doping Agency , WADA , has praised China 's drug testing programs for the Beijing Olympics , but has asked organizers to increase efforts to intercept banned substances .
At a meeting in Sydney , Australia , Wednesday , WADA president John Fahey endorsed Beijing 's anti-doping efforts after visiting a state-of-the art laboratory there this month .
He said testing would be more stringent than ever in Beijing , with numerous " chaperones " to ensure athletes submitted genuine blood and urine samples .
But Fahey also asked Chinese authorities to increase customs and immigration checks to prevent performance-enhancing drugs from reaching the Olympics .
WADA has announced the Beijing labs will be able to implement advanced tests for human growth hormone HGH before and during the Games from August 8-24 .
Fahey believes advanced testing in China will bring a " much more effective outcome in dealing with anyone who seeks to cheat . "
A one-day peace conference hosted by Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has ended with assurances from the prime minister aimed at pushing the peace process forward in Indian-Kashmir .
The prime minister announced Saturday that his government may soon release detained political leaders who are not being held on serious charges .
Mr. Singh met in New Delhi Saturday with representatives of pro-India parties as well as minority Hindu groups from Muslim-majority Kashmir .
But Kashmiri separatist leaders boycotted the talks .
Some of them had demanded India first build confidence in Kashmir by releasing the political activists and reducing troop levels .
Mr. Singh says he is confident that Kashmiri leaders who stayed away from the conference will eventually join the dialogue when they see the benefits of taking part .
Some Kashmiri separatists are seeking independence from India , while others want to merge with Pakistan .
Riot police in the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , have used batons and tear gas to disperse thousands of demonstrators protesting King Gyanendra 's direct rule in the Himalayan kingdom .
Several political leaders , including former Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala , and scores of other activists were detained during Sunday 's rally .
The protesters shouted pro-democracy slogans as they marched through the city 's center .
Several demonstrators were injured in clashes with police .
The rally , organized by seven main political parties , came a day after Maoist rebels announced a three-month unilateral truce in a bid to win their support .
The Nepali Congress , the country 's largest political party , has welcomed the Maoist move .
Party officials express hope it will lead to permanent peace .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says two American soldiers were killed and two others wounded when their vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb in southern Kandahar province Thursday .
The military said the vehicle was part of a convoy providing security for a road construction project in the area .
Taleban insurgents and their supporters have stepped up attacks ahead of Afghanistan 's parliamentary elections next month .
But Afghanistan 's Foreign Minister Abdullah says the insurgency will not hamper the vote and that local enthusiasm will ensure the polls are a success .
Mr. Abdullah made the remark Thursday in Canberra , where he was holding talks with Australian government officials .
Sri Lankan authorities say a prominent Tamil journalist was found shot dead Friday in Colombo , hours after he was abducted by several attackers as he left a restaurant .
Dharmeratnam Sivaram was a board member of the pro-rebel TamilNet Web site and a columnist for Sri Lanka 's english newspaper , the Daily Mirror .
Mr. Sivaram 's Web site became popular for ongoing reports on the Sri Lankan civil war and was a prominent supporter of the Tamil Tiger rebel movement .
Mr. Sivaram , who was also brutally attacked in 2001 , was found near a lake gagged with gunshot wounds to the head .
No one claimed responsibility for the killing .
The head of the U.N. investigation into the Iraq oil-for-food program says Saddam Hussein illegally obtained more money from oil smuggling than from corruption in the U.N. program .
Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker says the smuggling began before the start of the oil-for-food program , and was known to the United Nations Security Council .
In an interview with the U.S. government-funded alHurra television station , Mr. Volcker said there is a lot of confusion about how much money Saddam obtained from the oil-for-food program itself .
He refused to provide specific estimates , but said large amounts that have been reported in the media were from smuggling and not from funds diverted from the program .
The United Nations created the oil-for-food program after the first Gulf War to allow Iraq to sell oil and use the profits for the Iraqi people 's humanitarian needs .
A KIND-HEARTED Physician sitting at the bedside of a patient afflicted with an incurable and painful disease , heard a noise behind him , and turning saw a cat laughing at the feeble efforts of a wounded mouse to drag itself out of the room .
" You cruel beast ! " cried he .
" Why do n't you kill it at once , like a lady ? "
Rising , he kicked the cat out of the door , and picking up the mouse compassionately put it out of its misery by pulling off its head .
Recalled to the bedside by the moans of his patient , the Kind-hearted Physician administered a stimulant , a tonic , and a nutrient , and went away .
Thailand says it has photo evidence to prove its claim that Islamic militants responsible for violence in Thailand 's Muslim-majority south are training in neighboring Malaysia .
Thai Deputy Interior Minister Sutham Saengprathum says the photos show the militants training in Malaysia 's northern Kelantan state , which borders southern Thailand .
He said if Malaysia wants to see the photos , Bangkok will provide them .
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra has said he believes some of the insurgents have been trained in Malaysia , Indonesia and southern Thailand .
Malaysia and Indonesia have demanded proof of Bangkok 's allegations .
More than 500 people have been killed this year in an insurgency that some say is supported by extremist Muslims in Indonesia and Malaysia .
At least 17 people , including seven children , were killed and more than 70 others wounded in an explosion Monday at a home used for religious education in Pakistan 's Punjab province .
Officials in the Mian Channu area said they believe the blast , which also flattened more than 20 nearby houses , was caused by a cache of explosives stored in the house .
They said the rescuers were trying to recover people still trapped in the rubble .
The house belongs to a Muslim cleric who has been accused of recruiting fighters for a banned militant group .
It is unclear what triggered the blast , but local police searching through the debris say they found rocket launchers , grenades , and several suicide-bomber jackets .
Pakistani Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani condemned the blast and ordered an inquiry into the incident .
Representatives from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Advisory Council are holding meetings this week to finalize their annual report for APEC leaders who will hold a summit on September 8 and 9 .
VOA 's Nancy-Amelia Collins reports from Sydney .
Energy , security , climate change , the World Trade Organization 's stalled negotiations , and investment are all expected to be among the major topics in the annual report of the APEC Business Advisory Council , known as ABAC .
Tim Harcourt , the chief economist of the Australian Trade Commission , says ABAC plays an important role by informing governments where there are problems .
" The most important thing the business groups can do is to tell the governments where there are logjams , where there are obstacles , where things can improve , " Harcourt said .
" I think actually ABAC has played a pretty good leadership on that in talking about trade facilitation and basically making sure standards are consistent and harmonious across the region . "
ABAC comprises up to three members of the private sector of each of the 21 economies that make up APEC .
It meets three times a year .
It was made a permanent body in 1995 to provide an independent business perspective within APEC .
Members represent a range of business sectors , including medium and small businesses .
ABAC says there is a need for businesses to improve energy efficiency and to encourage conservation practices , and is expected to include this in its annual report .
Harcourt , of the Australian Trade Commission , says the ABAC report will also discuss ways to enhance regional cooperation .
" I reckon they 'll talk a little bit about customs and quarantine , a little bit about having consistent security arrangements around the region , " Harcourt said .
" And I think they 'll want a one-stop shop in terms of combining security , immigration , customs , and quarantine together … just to make sure it 's more streamlined and provides more certainty . "
ABAC is the only non-governmental body that has an official role and formal dialogue with the leaders of the APEC economies .
It will present its annual report at the APEC leaders meeting on Saturday .
A senior Pakistani military official says Pakistan wants to put what he calls the " sordid chapter " of proliferation by one of its top scientists behind it and build civilian nuclear ties with the United States .
But he says Pakistan is not ready to make the nuclear scientist , Abdul Qadeer Khan , available for direct questioning over his sale of nuclear parts and secrets to states including Iran , Libya and North Korea .
He said there are reasons of national sensitivities for not making him available .
The Pakistani official was giving a background briefing to a small group of reporters in Washington .
Khan admitted in 2004 that he operated a worldwide clandestine network to sell nuclear technology in the black market .
He was placed under house arrest in Islamabad , but not jailed because he is considered the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb .
British defense officials say 14 British military personnel have been killed in a crash of a NATO aircraft in southern Afghanistan .
A NATO spokesman says the aircraft went off the radar and crashed in an open area near Kandahar Saturday .
Officials say the aircraft was supporting a NATO mission in the country 's south , but there is no indication of enemy action causing the crash .
The crash comes as NATO forces launched an offensive to drive Taleban remnants out of Kandahar .
Officials say " Operation Medusa " is aimed at removing the Taleban threat so that stability , reconstruction and development can be achieved in the area .
A human rights group has accused coalition forces in Iraq of failing to secure evidence considered vital to the upcoming war crimes trial of former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein .
Human Rights Watch , in a report released Thursday , said coalition forces failed to stop people from stealing thousands of Iraqi government documents in the months after the 2003 invasion of Iraq .
The group also accused troops of failing to stop people from damaging several mass graves in the war-torn country .
The Associated Press quotes a U.S. Defense Department spokeswoman as saying it has not reviewed the report .
Saddam Hussein was arraigned in July at a U.S. military base on the outskirts of Baghdad .
He faces charges of war crimes , genocide and crimes against humanity .
Thousands of demonstrators have marched through London to protest the war in Iraq and demand the withdrawal of British troops from that country .
Families of soldiers killed in the conflict joined the protesters who carried banners with such slogans as " Bush Number One Terrorist " and " Stop the Bombings . "
They marched from the Houses of Parliament to a rally in Hyde Park .
Police put the number of marchers at 10,000 while organizers claimed it was 100,000 .
The protest comes on the eve of the annual conference of Britain 's ruling Labor Party in the southern English seaside resort of Brighton .
The party is divided over Britain 's participation in the Iraq conflict and the continued deployment of 8,500 British troops in that country .
The London march came ahead of anti-war protests today in other cities , including Rome , Paris , and Madrid .
India and Pakistan plan to hold a third round of peace talks in January with a focus on security , the Kashmir issue and confidence-building measures between the nuclear rivals .
The two-day talks will begin on January 17 and they will be led by the countries ' foreign secretaries .
They will review progress made so far and also chart a course for future negotiations .
The talks will be under a peace process that the two sides began in January 2004 .
A foreign office spokeswoman in Islamabad also said that the two sides have been holding secret talks on possible reduction of forces in Kashmir and a Pakistani proposal of self-rule in Kashmir .
She did not give any more details and also declined to reveal at what level the talks are being held .
India has not made any comment about the talks .
Zambian officials say reports that President Levy Mwanawasa has died are false .
Information Minister Mike Mulongoti made a televised address Thursday to say the foreign media reports are not true .
He said President Mwanawasa remains in stable condition in a Paris hospital , and is being treated for hypertension .
Mr. Mwanawasa was flown to France Tuesday after suffering a stroke Sunday while in Egypt for an African Union summit .
The summit was dominated by the political crisis in Zimbabwe , and the absence of Mr. Mwanawasa , a critic of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe , was said to hurt attempts to put more pressure on Harare .
Mr. Mwanawasa is 59 years old and has served as Zambia 's president since 2002 .
He is also the current leader of the Southern African Development Community .
He suffered a mild stroke two years ago .
Organizers of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London have promised the " greenest games " in history and sought to soothe concerns about the rising cost of the event .
With 2,012 days to go until the Games get under way , organizers said the design would champion low waste , low carbon emissions and environmentally friendly transportation .
The Olympic Delivery Authority has promised to cut emissions 50 percent by generating energy on site and using renewable energy .
Prime Minister Tony Blair said London is farther ahead in preparations at this stage than any other previous Olympic host city .
The British government wants to have the Olympic budget finalized early this year , but costs have already risen substantially since London won the bid in July of 2005 .
A select committee report due Wednesday is expected to be highly critical of the government 's financing of the Games .
A United Nations expert on extrajudicial killings says he would like to visit Thailand to investigate last month 's deaths of 87 Muslim protesters .
Philip Alston said he is deeply concerned by the October 25 incident .
He said a visit to Thailand would allow him to speak with those involved and to recommend ways to bring peace and stability to the region .
Thailand has not responded to Mr. Alston 's request .
Meanwhile , Thailand 's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej warned that the country could fall into ruin if the violence in the south does not end .
He urged security forces to better cooperate to deal with the region 's turmoil .
Hundreds of people have been killed since January when an insurgency flared up in Thailand 's three Muslim-majority southern provinces .
Pakistani forces have targeted militants in the northwest for a third day , launching airstrikes that they say killed at least nine suspected insurgents .
Helicopter gunships Saturday pounded militant hideouts in the Orakzai tribal region , where many Taliban militants are believed to have fled to avoid an earlier military offensive in nearby South Waziristan .
The Pakistani military launched its offensive in Orakzai to hunt Taliban insurgents .
So far , nearly 100 militants have been reported killed in the region since Thursday .
On Friday , five soldiers were killed when dozens of militants stormed a military checkpoint in Orakzai .
At least 32 suspected militants were killed when troops launched a counter-attack .
Elsewhere in the northwest , authorities on Saturday found the bodies of six people who had been shot dead in the Kurram region along the Afghan border .
The six were kidnapped a few days ago .
The British Embassy in Sudan 's capital has re-opened to the public , four days after it was closed because of a possible terrorist threat .
The embassy said in a statement Thursday that " additional security " has allowed it to resume normal consular and visa services .
The statement also thanked the Sudanese government for its cooperation .
Earlier this week , the government said it had broken up a plot to attack several Western diplomatic missions in the capital , Khartoum .
The state news agency reported that police had arrested eight Sudanese men and confiscated arms and explosives .
The British Embassy has advised British citizens to avoid travel to Khartoum .
Gunmen have shot and killed a Roman Catholic nun and her bodyguard at the hospital where she worked in Islamist-controlled Mogadishu , Somalia .
Some witnesses to the Sunday shooting said they feared the attack was linked to Muslim anger toward Pope Benedict .
Two men with pistols attacked the nun , Sister Leonella Sgorbati , after she finished teaching a medical school class at the hospital in southern Mogadishu .
Officials say one suspect was arrested .
In Rome , a Vatican spokesman deplored the attack and said he hoped it was an isolated event , and not irrationality arising from comments made by the Pope which angered some Muslims .
Authorities in Mogadishu have not determined a motive for the shooting .
The pope has said he meant no offense to Muslims when he quoted a 14 century Byzantine emperor as saying some teachings of the Prophet Muhammed brought evil to the world .
Indonesian officials say they have signed an initial agreement with Russia to build a space launch center on the remote island of Biak off the coast of Papua New Guinea .
An Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman says senior officials from both countries reached the preliminary agreement last week .
They say the island is well-suited for the project because of its proximity to the equator , which makes it easier to launch satellites into some Earth orbits .
The spokesman says a formal agreement on the project will be signed in June when Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is scheduled to visit Moscow .
The European Space Agency says it has received the first images and scientific readings from the surface of Saturn 's moon Titan .
Officials at agency headquarters in Germany Friday say information taken from the Huygens space probe show what looks like drainage channels on the moon .
They say the surface has canyons that were most likely caused by some type of liquid .
The space probe began transmitting data to the Cassini spacecraft while landing on Saturn 's largest moon earlier Friday .
Scientists say the information from Huygens - operated jointly by the American , European and Italian space agencies - may provide clues about how primitive Earth evolved into a life-bearing planet .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has denounced Colombia 's defense minister as an obstacle to peace and a pawn of the United States .
Mr. Chavez reacted sharply Sunday to the defense minister 's remarks about a meeting between Mr. Chavez and Colombian President Alvaro Uribe .
The two presidents met Friday to try to mend ties between their countries .
After the meeting , Colombian Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos said he hoped Venezuela would follow through with promises made during the meeting .
During a televised speech Sunday , Mr. Chavez called on President Uribe to put his defense minister in his place .
Tensions between the two countries rose in March when Colombia attacked a rebel camp in Ecuador .
Venezuela responded by sending troops to the Colombian border .
Egypt 's government and the World Health Organization say three Egyptian children have been hospitalized with the deadly form of avian flu .
The children come from different parts of the country .
WHO says they are receiving treatment and are in stable condition .
The organization says the children had a history of contact with dead birds .
Thirty two Egyptians have contracted the H5N1 form of avian flu .
Thirteen of them have died .
Egypt has had the largest number of human bird flu cases outside of Asia .
Pakistani officials say unidentified gunmen have killed three people , including a former government minister , in a semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
The officials say prominent tribal leader Malik Faridullah Khan was traveling in South Waziristan Sunday when his vehicle was ambushed in the Kani Wam area .
His driver and a tribal elder were also killed .
No one has claimed responsibility for the killings .
The ambush came a day after a commander of Pakistani troops said the army has almost completely eliminated militants in South Waziristan .
The area became a refuge for many al-Qaida and Taleban fighters after the Taleban government was ousted in Afghanistan in 2001 .
Kyrgyzstan 's Justice Ministry says four people , including parliament member Tynychbek Akmatbayev , have been killed at a prison near Bishkek after inmates took them hostage .
Interior Minister Murat Sutalinov is at the prison to head negotiations with the inmates .
The ministry gave no other details .
It is not clear if the hostage-takers made any demands .
Mr. Akmatbayev was involved in negotiations on Wednesday at another Kyrgyz prison where a riot over poor living conditions forced the staff to evacuate earlier this week .
That prison , also near Bishkek , remained surrounded by security forces on Thursday .
A U.S. immigration judge has denied bail for Luis Posada Carriles , an asylum-seeking former CIA operative from Cuba .
U.S. authorities arrested the 77-year-old Posada Carriles in May after he illegally entered the country through Mexico .
Posada Carriles is wanted in Venezuela for his alleged role in a 1976 Cuban airliner bombing that killed 73 people .
Some 20 years ago , a Venezuelan court acquitted him of a role in the bombing .
He later escaped from prison while awaiting a new trial .
In May , U.S. officials rejected a Venezuelan request for his arrest , citing a lack of evidence against the Cuban exile who holds Venezuelan citizenship .
Ugandan Lord 's Resistance Army rebels are seeking a 12-month suspension in the arrest warrants against their leaders issued by the International Criminal Court .
James Obita , the technical advisor to the rebels ' negotiating team , tells VOA the rebels will ask for the suspension when peace talks with the Ugandan government resume Thursday in Juba , southern Sudan .
He says in connection with that request , the rebels will propose an " alternative justice system " to deal with war crimes committed during the rebels ' 20-year uprising in northern Uganda .
LRA fighters are accused of killing and mutilating thousands of civilians during the conflict .
The International Criminal Court has indicted five top rebel leaders on war crimes charges .
The LRA has demanded those charges be dropped as a condition for signing any peace deal .
The 10-month-old peace talks have achieved some progress , including a ceasefire that the sides extended in April .
Japan and North Korea say they are considering a resumption of bilateral talks as part of efforts to normalize relations .
Japanese media reported Monday that the two countries hope to arrange to hold the talks in Beijing in early November .
The talks could come before six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions resume .
Japan and North Korea have not had formal bilateral talks for about a year .
Tokyo and Pyongyang are at odds over North Korea 's nuclear weapons program and the North 's kidnapping of Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s .
U.S. Army officials said Wednesday that they will not renew a controversial multi-billion dollar contract with the Halliburton company to provide logistical support to U.S. troops in Iraq and elsewhere .
Halliburton has been providing a long list of services , from meals to communication , for the military for several years .
Critics of Halliburton include auditors and congressional Democrats .
They say the company has produced some shoddy work and charges too much money .
The company strongly denies the allegations .
When the huge contract is put out for re-bidding , several companies will get a chance to compete for portions of the work .
British police say they have arrested a man who dressed as suicide bomber at a demonstration against the publication of cartoons depicting Islam 's Prophet Muhammad .
Bedfordshire police said Tuesday that Omar Khayam was arrested in Bedford for breaching the conditions of his parole .
Police said the British Home Office sought an investigation of Khayam 's behavior after he was photographed last week at a demonstration dressed in fatigues , a black cap , and a bulky belt .
A Home Office spokesman told the Associated Press that if the behavior of a paroled offender gives cause for concern , he can be sent back to prison .
The AP also reports Khayam has been on parole from prison since last year after serving half his six-year sentence for drug dealing .
China has lashed out at a U.S. report critical of Chinese policies on religious freedom , saying such criticism could harm U.S. - China relations .
In its annual report issued Wednesday , the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom said China continues to be responsible for pervasive and severe violations of religious freedom , regularly imprisoning and harassing religious leaders and practitioners .
In a statement Saturday Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao accused the U.S. body of attempting to interfere with Chinese internal affairs under the guise of religious freedom .
He said such criticism runs counter to the good development of U.S - China relations .
Liu said China protects the religious freedom of Chinese citizens according to law , and that citizens enjoy full freedom of religion .
China 's communist government allows worship only in state-approved and state-monitored churches , temples and mosques .
People who worship in unauthorized ways are subject to arrest .
Peru 's former President , Alberto Fujimori , has told authorities he is trying to form a political alliance to support his bid to run in next April 's presidential election .
In a visit to the Peruvian consulate in Tokyo Wednesday , Mr. Fujimori had his signature validated on a document joining his Si Cumple party with two other political parties .
The consulate said it notarized his signature , but not the contents of the document .
The disgraced ex-president and son of Japanese parents fled to Japan in 2000 , where he was granted citizenship .
The exiled president is wanted in Peru to face charges of corruption and human rights abuses related to the death squad murders of 25 people .
Mr. Fujimori , Peru 's hard-line ruler from 1990 to 2000 , has denied the charges , calling them politically motivated .
Tokyo has refused requests from Lima for his extradition .
A GOATHERD , driving his flock from their pasture at eventide , found some Wild Goats mingled among them , and shut them up together with his own for the night .
The next day it snowed very hard , so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding places , but was obliged to keep them in the fold .
He gave his own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive , but fed the strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay with him and of making them his own .
When the thaw set in , he led them all out to feed , and the Wild Goats scampered away as fast as they could to the mountains .
The Goatherd scolded them for their ingratitude in leaving him , when during the storm he had taken more care of them than of his own herd .
One of them , turning about , said to him : " That is the very reason why we are so cautious ; for if you yesterday treated us better than the Goats you have had so long , it is plain also that if others came after us , you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves . "
Old friends can not with impunity be sacrificed for new ones .
Georgia 's president has announced plans for his country to get emergency natural gas supplies from Iran to help end the country 's shortage of both gas and electricity .
President Mikhail Saakashvili told cabinet members Friday that gas from Iran is expected to begin flowing into Georgia beginning Sunday or , at the latest , Monday .
Residents in the former Soviet republic have been enduring freezing weather with limited supplies after explosions on pipelines delivering Russian natural gas .
Russian authorities deny Georgian charges that they deliberately cut supplies , and insist the pipelines were sabotaged .
Repairs are due to be completed by Sunday .
Georgia is heavily dependent on Russian natural gas .
President Saakashvili says the agreement with Iran shows his country has alternative sources .
Millions of Georgians have also been without electricity because of a breakdown of a unit at a power station , as well as downed power lines .
Coalition troops in Iraq have captured a suspected al-Qaida terrorist during a raid on the home of a senior Sunni Arab politician , Adnan al-Dulaymi .
U.S. officials say they believe the man was involved in planning car bomb attacks on Baghdad 's Green Zone , which houses government , diplomatic and military offices .
The man is identified as a bodyguard at Mr. Dulaymi 's home in the Iraqi capital .
Officials say the raid does not imply the politician himself is involved in illegal activity .
On Friday , Iraqi authorities imposed a curfew in Baghdad , because of fears of new violence .
The ban on pedestrians and vehicles was expected to remain in effect until Sunday .
In the northern city of Tal Afar , a car bomb exploded Saturday , killing two people and wounding 30 others .
The U.S. government is delivering more bad news on the country 's struggling economy , saying first time claims for unemployment benefits are at a 26-year high .
The Labor Department report , issued Thursday , said the number of laid-off workers applying for benefits for the first time soared to 626,000 last week .
Officials said the total number of workers receiving unemployment benefits is now close to 4.8 million , another record .
A comprehensive government report on unemployment is due out Friday .
Economists surveyed by news organizations predict the nationwide jobless rate will rise three-tenths of a percent to hit 7.5 percent .
Despite the rising claims for unemployment insurance , U.S. companies are squeezing more productivity out of their shrinking workforces .
A second Labor Department report Thursday said productivity - a measure of how much an employee produces per hour - rose more than three percent for the last three months of 2008 .
The U.S. military says the Iraqi army has captured three suspected al-Qaida in Iraq leaders involved in roadside bomb attacks .
Statements Wednesday say the suspects were detained in separate operations north of Baghdad in Kirkuk province , and in the towns of Tarmiyah and Judaidah .
The military says U.S. Special Forces advised the Iraqi army in all three operations .
The U.S. military also says Iraqi special operations forces detained seven suspected criminals in and around Baghdad 's Sadr City district , a stronghold of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
U.S. and Iraqi soldiers have been fighting Shi'ite militants in Sadr City in recent weeks as part of a crackdown on illegal militias .
The American Diabetes Association reports the disease is the leading cause of new cases of blindness among adults .
It is the leading cause of kidney failure .
The rate of amputation is 10 times higher among those who suffer from the disease .
Experts say those who learn how to manage the disease early , can live healthier and more normal lives .
VOA 's June Soh found camps that provide children with this chronic disease a positive approach to living with diabetes while letting them just be kids .
Amy Katz Narrates .
Kids these days , they grow up too quickly and know entirely too much too soon .
I mean this one friend of mine was trying to get his boy into Nursery Rhymes .
All that happened was that the boy told his shrink that his Father had a lot of problems , including a fixation that a cow could orbit the moon .
An Algerian man goes on trial Monday in France for terrorist attacks on the Paris subway in 1995 .
Prosecutors say Rachid Ramda helped fund at least three bombings on the Paris metro .
If he is convicted , Ramda could get life in prison .
The 38-year-old is already serving a 10-year sentence in France after he was convicted last year on terrorism charges .
Police say Ramda operated from London where investigators say they found evidence that he sent money to terrorists .
He is accused of helping fund attacks carried out by an Algerian militant organization the Armed Islamic Group .
British police arrested Ramda in 1995 .
He fought extradition to France for 10 years .
In Monday 's trial , Ramda is facing charges of being an accomplice to at least three bombings on the Paris subway , including the July 25 , 1995 attack that killed eight people and injured more than 150 .
A new government report shows U.S. businesses added a moderate 111,000 new jobs in January .
The Labor Department Friday issued a report that also showed the U.S. unemployment rate increased for the first time in three months - to 4.6 percent .
According to the report , American workers earned an average of $ 17.09 an hour in January - a slight increase from the previous month .
Analysts say the Department of Labor report will help ease worries that a tight labor market will significantly inflate wages and costs .
Earlier this week , the U.S. central bank decided to maintain a key interest rate , despite the risk of inflation .
U.S. Senator John Warner of the southeastern state of Virginia , a prominent Republican figure in the debate over the war in Iraq , says he will retire after finishing his term in 2009 .
Warner told supporters outside of the University of Virginia Friday that he will not seek a sixth term in the 2008 elections .
The former chairman of the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee has openly criticized President Bush 's handling of the war in Iraq .
He called on Mr. Bush earlier this month to begin withdrawing some U.S. troops from Iraq .
His retirement will leave open what would have been a relatively safe seat for Republicans in the fight for Senate control in the elections .
Democrats will now have a better chance to protect or expand their one-seat majority in the Senate .
When he leaves office , the 80-year-old former Navy secretary will have served 30 years as a U.S. senator .
Pakistani police have arrested four alleged members of an Islamic militant group in connection with the murder of a prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric earlier this year .
A senior police official , Saud Aziz , says the four wanted in connection with the slaying of Agha Ziauddin in the town of Gilgit in January were picked up in the city of Rawalpindi .
The murder sparked sectarian violence that left at least 14 people dead .
The official says the suspects belong to the Sunni Muslim Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and that they were plotting to attack Shi'ite events last week but changed their minds because of tight security .
The banned group is accused of killing hundreds of Pakistani Shi'ite Muslims in recent years and is believed to have links to the al-Qaida terrorist network .
A Washington-based research institute says Pakistan is building a nuclear reactor that could produce enough plutonium for 40 to 50 nuclear weapons a year .
The Institute for Science and International Security reports that satellite photos show a possible construction site for a larger nuclear reactor near the small one in the Khushab district of Punjab province .
The report says such a reactor could produce over 200 kilograms of weapons-grade plutonium , good for 40 to 50 nuclear weapons a year .
According to some media reports , Pakistan is now capable of producing plutonium for just two warheads a year .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam declined to say whether a new reactor is being constructed , but she said the presence of a nuclear weapons program and facilities at Khushab are well known .
Top Palestinian negotiator Ahmed Qureia says Israeli and Palestinian mediators have agreed to prepare a document outlining their progress toward a peace accord .
In remarks to reporters , Qureia said the two sides agreed during recent meetings to begin writing out their positions on all issues discussed during peace negotiations .
He did not elaborate on why negotiators had come to the decision .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas resumed U.S.-brokered peace talks last November , but progress has been slow .
The two sides have expressed hope at reaching a peace deal before U.S. President George Bush leaves office early next year .
But Qureia said Wednesday that reaching a peace agreement with Israel before Mr. Bush leaves office will take a " miracle . "
He told reporters in the West Bank that there is still room for progress in Israeli-Palestinian negotiations .
Anti-Japanese protests in the western Chinese city of Shanghai turned violent Saturday , with protesters pelting the Japanese consulate with rocks , bottles and eggs .
Several thousand people took to the streets of Shanghai as part of a new wave of anti-Japanese protests over Japan 's bid for a permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council and Tokyo 's alleged downplaying of war atrocities .
In Beijing , police are out in force waiting for protests to begin in the capital .
State Councilor Tang Jiaxuan told the official Xinhua news agency that China 's government is urging people to protest in a calm and orderly manner .
Japan 's Foreign Minister , Nobutaka Machimura , arrives Sunday in Beijing for talks with his Chinese counterpart , Li Zhaoxing , to discuss relations between the two countries .
The Israeli army has killed a Palestinian youth in the northern Gaza Strip and wounded at least three other people .
The army says it targeted a man who was collecting a rocket launcher from an area used to fire rockets at Israel recently .
Palestinian medical sources say the Israeli strike killed a teenager .
The Israeli military began an offensive in Gaza after militants kidnapped an Israeli soldier in June .
More than 200 Palestinians have been killed in the offensive .
On Sunday , Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh said his Hamas-led government will not recognize Israel .
He said an Arab peace plan for the region is problematic because it requires Palestinians to recognize Israel in exchange for an Israeli pullout from Palestinian territories .
He spoke after a week of deadly political infighting between Hamas and the rival Fatah party of President Mahmoud Abbas .
Police in Japan say a teacher stabbed to death a 12-year-old girl Saturday in the country 's third killing of a school girl in less than three weeks .
Yu Hagino , 23 , was arrested at the murder scene , a school in the western city of Uji .
Police say the suspect confessed to stabbing the girl with a knife after arguing with her .
The killing follows the recent murders of two school girls in the space of just over a week .
The two were killed in separate incidents as they walked home alone from elementary school along deserted roads .
Iraqi officials say at least two people were killed and several others wounded in a car bomb blast in central Baghdad Tuesday .
Earlier reports said the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber .
It came as the U.S. military announced it had rounded up 428 suspects over the past 30 hours in a major operation against insurgents in a western suburb of the capital .
On Monday , dozens of people were killed and scores were hurt in a series of car bombings and other attacks in cities and towns across Iraq .
Also Monday , an al-Qaida-linked group claimed responsibility for gunning down a top Iraqi security official ( Wael al-Rubaei ) and his driver in Baghdad .
Indonesian police have arrested three men in connection with the October 1 Bali bombings that left 23 people dead .
Indonesian police said Wednesday the men were flown to Bali from neighboring Java island for questioning at Bali police headquarters .
Australian and French news agencies say at least one of the men arrested ( Cholily ) was captured during a series of counter-terrorism raids last week in Indonesia .
The raids ended with the death of alleged extremist bombmaker Azahari bin Husin .
Indonesian authorities blame Azahari bin Husin for orchestrating last month 's attacks in Bali as well as the 2002 Bali bombings that killed more than 200 people .
Radical Islamic cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed has called on all Muslims to leave Europe .
In an interview with French television to be broadcast Monday , Mr. Bakri says Muslims will one day return to Europe , and the Islamic flag will fly over Downing Street , the home of Britain 's prime minister .
The interview took place in Beirut where Mr. Bakri lives after the British government stripped him of his residency in its campaign to rein in radical Islamic leaders .
Mr. Bakri triggered British outrage after the July 7 bombings in London when he said he would never tip off police if he knew a Muslim was about to carry out an attack .
In the France 3 interview , Mr. Bakri says the backgrounds of the four suicide bombers in the London attacks prove the message of al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden has reached moderate communities .
Two Germans and four Nigerian oil workers were kidnapped by armed militants during a raid on a boat in Nigeria 's southern oil-rich Delta region .
An official with the German firm Bilfinger Berger , Thomas Horbach , said the gunmen stopped the supply boat Wednesday as it sailed from Delta State to Bayelsa State to inspect an offshore oil field owned by Royal-Dutch Shell .
The German firm works as a sub-contractor for Shell .
Militant groups frequently attack oil operations in the Niger Delta to demand social services and better job opportunities from multinational companies .
Poor residents often complain they have been cheated out of the huge riches extracted from their tribal lands - where the bulk of Nigeria 's 2.3 million barrels of petroleum are pumped daily .
U.S. military officials have announced changes to military trials of terrorism suspects being held at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Air Force Brigadier General Thomas Hemingway said Wednesday the so-called " improvements " will bring the process closer to the American judge-and-jury system .
He said the presiding officer at the trial will function more like a judge than under the previous system , and other officers will act like a jury .
Some human rights groups rejected the changes for not going far enough , noting there is still no option for appeal to an independent court .
U.S. military officials have filed charges against four detainees at Guantanamo , where more than 500 terror suspects are being held .
Meantime Center for Constitutional Rights said some prisoners have launched a hunger strike to protest their conditions .
Suspected Islamist rebels have fired mortar shells at the palace used by Somalia 's interim President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmad .
It was not immediately clear if the president was in the palace in Mogadishu when the attack occurred or if anyone was hurt .
Local news reports said at least five mortar shells hit the palace compound and other mortars were fired elsewhere in Mogadishu Wednesday .
The attacks occurred after the government said it will go ahead with a reconciliation conference to which more than 1,300 Somali elders , warlords and politicians are invited .
U.S. President Barack Obama says improvements in the American health care system are inevitable .
Mr. Obama made his comments in the White House Rose Garden Monday as he nominated an African-American woman , Regina Benjamin , to become the U.S. Surgeon General .
The president said " naysayers and cynics " should not bet against the passage of health insurance legislation .
He also said inaction on the issue is not an option .
Mr. Obama has vowed to sign a health care bill into law this year .
Democrats in the House of Representatives say they are nearly ready to unveil their health care reform plan .
Controversy over extending health coverage to uninsured Americans centers on how to pay for it .
It is expected to cost $ 1 trillion over 10 years .
Russian officials say at least five more people have died from a wave of extremely cold weather gripping the nation , bringing the death toll to 43 in the past week .
Emergency medical officials say the five victims died in Moscow from exposure , and another 19 people are hospitalized with hypothermia .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency quotes a medical official as saying some of the victims were intoxicated or homeless .
The unusually cold weather is affecting Russia , the Baltic states of Lithuania , Latvia and Estonia , and is moving into the Nordic countries .
The death toll is expected to rise as temperatures continue to hover around minus 30 degrees Celsius or lower overnight .
Emergency power rationing has been put into effect around Moscow .
Iraq 's parliament has approved six new government ministers , including four from the country 's Sunni minority which held power under Saddam Hussein .
However , the Sunni Human Rights appointee Hashem Ashibli quickly turned down the post , leaving a single vacancy in the 33-member cabinet .
He said he could not accept a position awarded on a sectarian basis .
A Sunni Arab , Saadoun al-Dulaimi , has been approved as defense minister , and a Shi'ite ( Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum ) will head the all-important oil ministry .
Top slots in the ministries of industry and electricity were also filled , along with a third deputy prime minister position .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say gunmen assassinated a senior member of the Transportation Ministry Zoba Yass and his driver today in Baghdad .
Separately , U.S. officials say coalition forces killed six insurgents and captured 54 suspects early Sunday near the western border town of al-Qaim .
Four key Palestinian militant groups say they are ending a truce aimed at easing attacks on Israel .
In separate statements issued Sunday , Hamas and the Popular Resistance Committees said they were no longer bound by the truce deal brokered last March by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas .
The al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and Islamic Jihad also scrapped the deal , and said they had fired rockets early today into southern Israel .
In a separate development , gunmen in the Gaza Strip stormed a club for United Nations workers and blew up a hall where alcohol was served .
There were no reports of injuries and no claim of responsibility .
A short while later , gunmen in Gaza kidnapped an Italian activist near Khan Younis , but later released him .
Health officials in Vietnam say a deadly strain of the bird flu virus has killed a second Vietnamese man this week , raising the country 's death toll from the virus to 50 .
Officials say the 27-year old man from Vietnam 's northern Ninh Binh province died late Thursday and tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Officials say the man fell ill after slaughtering two chickens at his home .
He is the third person to die from avian influenza in Vietnam this year .
Not counting the latest death , the World Health Organization says 227 people around the world have died from bird flu since 2003 .
Most of the world 's cases , 103 , have occurred in Indonesia .
Iran 's defense minister has denounced remarks by the top U.S. military commander , who said Washington has not ruled out the use of force against Iran to prevent it from making nuclear weapons .
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mike Mullen said Sunday that the U.S. has a plan to strike Iran .
But Admiral Mullen said he hopes the military option is not needed .
Iran 's defense minister , Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi , said Tuesday that U.S. threats to attack his country violate the United Nations charter .
He warned that Tehran has drawn up defensive plans that would make its enemies regret any attack .
The United States and other Western countries accuse Iran of secretly developing nuclear weapons under cover of a civilian energy program - a charge Iran denies .
Admiral Mullen said he hopes the combination of sanctions and diplomatic efforts will resolve the dispute .
Israeli soldiers have killed two Palestinians in the southern Gaza Strip .
Witnesses say the two men were killed early Friday near the security barrier separating southern Gaza with Israel .
Israeli military officials say troops had spotted the men attempting to plant bombs along the barrier .
The killings were the latest in a series of clashes between the Israeli army and Palestinian militants .
Israeli soldiers killed five Palestinians Thursday during an army operation in the West Bank city of Nablus .
Officials say three of the dead were wanted militants from the al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades , a violent offshoot of the mainstream Fatah Party .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and incoming Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh Friday denounced the Israeli military 's sweep through the Nablus refugee camps .
The United Nations reports a halt to international aid work in the displaced persons ' camps of Zalinge , in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The U.N. refugee agency says international groups suspended their activities in the camps after a mob killed three water workers on Thursday .
It was unclear what caused the violence .
Friday , spokesman Ron Redmond said agency is " extremely concerned " about what he called the continued deterioration in Darfur 's security situation .
Redmond listed a number of attacks on relief groups over the past week , including one where an aid worker was shot dead in North Darfur .
World leaders have been pressing Sudan to accept a U.N. peacekeeping force in Darfur .
The government is still rejecting any U.N. deployment to the region , where more than three years of violence has killed nearly 200,000 people , and displaced some two million others .
President Bush has issued 14 pardons to convicted criminals , and has commuted the prison sentences of two others .
The pardons , announced Monday , include no high-profile names .
They were for people convicted of such acts as bank embezzlement , making false statements to the federal government , unlawfully killing wildlife , and committing drug offenses .
Including Monday 's actions , Mr. Bush has granted 171 pardons and commuted eight sentences while U.S. president .
Pardons are one of the president 's absolute powers , and in recent years it has become typical for the president to issue pardons as he prepares to leave office .
White House officials say he made the pardon decisions on a case-by-case basis , and will continue to review clemency requests .
Ugandan opposition leader Kizza Besigye has been released on bail , after a judge ruled his detention by the military was illegal .
Police fired tear gas to disperse hundreds of Dr. Besigye 's supporters who took to the streets in Kampala after his release Monday .
Uganda 's military had detained Dr. Besigye since November , when he returned from self-imposed exile to run against President Yoweri Museveni in next month 's presidential election .
A military tribunal has charged Dr. Besigye with terrorism and possessing illegal weapons .
But a Ugandan High Court Judge , John Bosco Katutsi , said his detention was illegal because the High Court had suspended the military trial .
Dr. Besigye still faces rape charges , for which a civilian trial began Monday .
He has denied all the charges , which supporters say were trumped up to keep him from running for president .
U.S. automaker Chrysler has opened a $ 570 million engine plant in northern Mexico .
During the ceremonial startup of the Saltillo plant Friday , Mexican President Felipe Calderon said Chrysler 's sixth plant in Mexico will create 700 jobs .
Mr. Calderon said Mexico has become a worldwide leader in the auto industry .
Chrysler plans to build its new fuel-efficient Pentastar V-6 engine for Chrysler , Dodge , Jeep and Ram vehicles .
Mexican officials say the new plant will have the capacity to build 440,000 engines per year .
Iran 's hard-line Guardian Council has approved a bill that would block United Nations inspections of its nuclear facilities and allow it to resume uranium enrichment if it is referred to the U.N. Security Council .
State media report Saturday that the 12-member council approved the measure after deciding it does not contradict the constitution or Islamic law .
The parliament already approved the bill last month .
The final step will be President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's signature .
The move could jeopardize nuclear talks with Europe that Iran said it expects will resume within weeks .
Those talks collapsed in August , when Tehran restarted converting uranium - the precursor of enrichment .
Last year , Tehran suspended enrichment as a good faith measure to allay international concerns it is secretly pursuing nuclear weapons , a charge its government denies .
Kenyan police have opened fire at hundreds of people demonstrating against cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad , as protests across the Muslim world showed no signs of abating .
At least one Kenyan was wounded Friday when protesters tried to march on the Danish embassy in Nairobi , shouting anti-Denmark slogans and burning Danish flags .
Muslims also demonstrated Friday in cities across the Middle East as well as in India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Bangladesh , Malaysia , and Venezuela .
In France , a Muslim organization - the French Council of the Muslim Faith - said it was launching legal action against French newspapers that published the cartoons , one of which depicts the Prophet Muhammad wearing a turban shaped like a bomb .
Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi told an international conference Friday the Muslim world and the West must stop demonizing each other and " accept one another as equals . "
The United Nations says December 's Indian Ocean tsunami caused around $ 520 million in damage to fishing industries in seven of the worst hit countries .
The U.N. 's Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) said the tsunami destroyed or damaged more than 111,000 fishing vessels in the region .
It said the loss was significant in a region where fishing provides a vital source of food .
The FAO 's estimate includes damage to fishing industries in Indonesia , Maldives , Somalia , Sri Lanka and Thailand .
The agency says it has sent experts to help rebuild fishing industry infrastructure lost in the disaster and is developing strategies for long-term recovery in the region .
A group linked to al-Qaida in Iraq is denying Iraqi government reports that its leader was recently arrested .
The Islamic State of Iraq says the man it claims is its leader , Abu Omar al-Baghdadi , is fine .
The group says on an Islamist Web site it does not know the person who Iraqi authorities arrested last month and presented as al-Baghdadi .
The Iraqi army said it captured the Sunni insurgent leader in the Iraqi capital , Baghdad .
The United States did not confirm the report .
Iraqi authorities in the past have announced the arrest or killing of major insurgent leaders , to only later say the reports were false .
In addition , U.S. military commander General Kevin Bergner previously had said al-Baghdadi may not be a real person , but rather a fictional character created to put an Iraqi face on the otherwise foreign leadership of al-Qaida in Iraq .
Officials in Indonesia say another person has died from bird flu , bringing the country 's death toll from the disease to 96 since the outbreak started in 2003 .
The latest victim was a 16-year-old girl from the town of Bekasi , on the eastern outskirts of Jakarta .
Officials say she died Tuesday .
Monday , officials reported that a 32-year-old woman from an area just west of Jakarta died of bird flu last week , at her home in the city of Tangerang .
A statement from the health ministry said the woman 's family kept chickens in their backyard .
Humans are usually infected with bird flu by direct contact with infected poultry , but experts fear the H5N1 virus may mutate into a form easily transmitted between people .
Scientists fear such a mutation could spark a global pandemic with a potential death toll of millions .
Uganda 's government and rebels of the Lord 's Resistance Army are nearing a peace deal to end more than 20 years of conflict .
Officials close to the negotiations say an accord signed Friday provides for the disarmament and demobilization of the LRA .
The two sides signed a permanent cease-fire agreement last Saturday during peace talks in Sudan .
However , there is still uncertainty the rebels will sign the final peace deal until rebel leader Joseph Kony is granted immunity from international prosecution .
Kony is one of five LRA officials sought by the International Criminal Court for alleged war crimes .
LRA fighters are accused of murdering thousands of civilians and raping and mutilating others during the long insurgency in northern Uganda .
Iran has closed government offices and schools in Tehran for two days because of wind-blown dust that has polluted the capital .
Government authorities have declared Tuesday and Wednesday a public holiday , and Iranian media say many domestic airline flights have been canceled .
Medical authorities are advising people with heart and respiratory problems to stay inside .
Iran 's Press TV says Tehran 's Air Quality Control Company has found the amount of potentially harmful particulate in the air has reached dangerous levels .
The dust has blown in from Saudi Arabia and neighboring Iraq , where a severe sandstorm recently blanketed the capital , Baghdad .
Sandstorms can be caused by heavy winds blowing across deserts , or across land that has lost its fertile top soil and greenery .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says archaeologists have discovered the ruins of 29 villages that date back more than 4,500 years .
The report said the ancient communities were discovered in the northern part of Shaanxi province , a region known for its archaeological treasures .
Xinhua says the ruins show that people had mastered building techniques and had constructed houses and stone walls around their community .
It said a total of 96 houses were unearthed , as well as the ruins of a sacrificial altar .
The report quoted an official with the Shaanxi Provincial Archaeological Research Institute as saying the discovery will help scientists better understand the environment during the Neolithic period , also known as the New Stone Age .
Bolivia is one of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin America .
Following a disastrous economic crisis during the early 1980s , reforms spurred private investment , stimulated economic growth , and cut poverty rates in the 1990s .
The period 2003 - 05 was characterized by political instability , racial tensions , and violent protests against plans - subsequently abandoned - to export Bolivia 's newly discovered natural gas reserves to large northern hemisphere markets .
In 2005 , the government passed a controversial hydrocarbons law that imposed significantly higher royalties and required foreign firms then operating under risk-sharing contracts to surrender all production to the state energy company in exchange for a predetermined service fee .
After higher prices for mining and hydrocarbons exports produced a fiscal surplus in 2008 , the global recession in 2009 slowed growth .
Nevertheless , Bolivia recorded the highest growth rate in South America that year .
During 2010 an increase in world commodity prices resulted in the biggest trade surplus in history .
However , a lack of foreign investment in the key sectors of mining and hydrocarbons and higher food prices pose challenges for the Bolivian economy .
Hardline lawmakers in Pakistan 's North West Frontier Province have pushed through a law that aims to ensure " Islamic correctness " in public places and establishes a morality police to enforce decent behavior .
A six-party coalition of religious based parties , the Mutahida Majlis-e-Amal , dominates the provincial assembly , so the bill was easily passed Thursday by a vote of 68-34 .
The provincial governor must still sign the bill before it becomes law , a step seen only as a formality .
The proposed law calls for setting up a " religious police force " to make sure people adhere to Islamic values in public places , and entertainment outlets close during weekly Friday prayers .
Violators could be jailed for up to six months .
The opposition has denounced the measure , comparing it to the draconian rule of the former Taleban in neighboring Afghanistan .
Shortly before midnight a suicide bomber blew himself up in a crowd of young Israelis waiting to get into a beachfront nightclub in Tel Aviv .
Israeli police say the bomber was spotted and prevented from entering the club .
They say if he had gotten inside the carnage would have been even worse .
It is unclear who was behind the attack with major Palestinian militant groups saying they had nothing to do with it .
A statement released by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in Ramallah vowed to track down and punish those responsible , saying this was an attempt to sabotage the peace process .
The bombing shatters weeks of calm after Mr. Abbas declared a truce during a summit with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Egypt earlier this month .
A commercial airplane taking off from Western Europe has landed in Iraq for the first time in nearly 20 years .
The plane , operated by France 's Aigle Azur airline , took off from Charles De Gaulle airport in Paris late Saturday and touched down at Baghdad International Airport early Sunday .
Officials said this first flight was largely ceremonial , and that most of the passengers were French diplomats and business leaders .
One of the passengers , French Foreign Trade Minister Anne-Marie Idrac , called it a historic day for cooperation between France and Iraq .
Regular service between Paris and Baghdad is not expected to start for at least several weeks .
Aigle Azur is just one of a number of airlines to start flying to Baghdad .
Etihad and Emirates airlines , both operating out of the United Arab Emirates , started flying to Baghdad earlier this year .
The head of U.S. troops in the Horn of Africa says terrorists and insurgents may begin leaving war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq and head for east Africa .
Major General Timothy Ghormley says officials are concerned that instability and weak governments in east Africa could draw international terrorist groups seeking to establish a base of operations .
General Ghormley says the joint task force in Djibouti has been helping to train foreign soldiers and build anti-terrorist capabilities of governments in the region .
However , U.S. forces have yet to enter Somalia , which has been without a functioning central government for more than 10 years .
Earlier this year , Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi warned an al-Qaida cell is already operating out of Somalia 's capital , Mogadishu .
The name " Latvia " originates from the ancient Latgalians , one of four eastern Baltic tribes that formed the ethnic core of the Latvian people ( ca. 8th - 12th centuries A.D. ) .
The region subsequently came under the control of Germans , Poles , Swedes , and finally , Russians .
A Latvian republic emerged following World War I , but it was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US and many other countries .
Latvia reestablished its independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union .
Although the last Russian troops left in 1994 , the status of the Russian minority ( some 30 % of the population ) remains of concern to Moscow .
Latvia joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 .
The death toll from a coal mining accident in northwestern China rose to 32 Wednesday after searchers recovered the body of the last missing miner .
China 's state-run media say 39 people were working at the privately-owned coal mine in Shaanxi province on Saturday when a gas explosion occurred .
Seven miners managed to reach the surface , but the others were trapped .
The Xinhua news agency says police have detained the owner and managers of the mine , but provided no other details .
Chinese mines are among the most dangerous in the world .
Thousands of people are killed every year in explosions , cave-ins and floods , despite government crackdowns on safety violations .
Iraqi military officials say tanks and troops have arrived in the northern city Mosul for a new offensive against al Qaida in Iraq fighters .
Officials will not say how many troops have arrived in the Sunni Arab and Kurdish city , where bombings last week killed at least 34 people and wounded more than 200 .
U.S. commanders have not explained how American forces will participate in the offensive .
Officials say al Qaida in Iraq fighters have fled successful campaigns against them in Anbar province and Baghdad to other northern provinces .
Mosul is the largest city north of Baghdad and has long been a stronghold of Sunni militant fighters .
In other violence , U.S. officials said one American soldier was killed while on patrol in Baghdad Sunday .
A landmine blast in southern Afghanistan has killed nine Afghan soldiers .
The Taleban later claimed responsibility for the blast in Kandahar province .
An Afghan Army spokesman said the troops were traveling towards the nearby Pakistani border when their vehicle hit the mine .
U.S.-led forces are hunting down remnants of Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime who frequently carry out hit and run attacks on coalition and Afghan government forces , mainly in the country 's eastern and southern regions .
The United Nations says Sudanese refugees have begun returning from the Central African Republic under a new deal between the countries and the U.N. refugee agency .
The U.N. says the deal , which was signed Wednesday , will allow some 16,000 Sudanese refugees living in the CAR to voluntarily return home .
It says the first group of refugees was scheduled to fly home Thursday .
Five thousand refugees are expected to return to Sudan by April .
The rest will go home by the end of the year .
The deal is one of several involving Sudan reached this week by the refugee agency and Sudan 's neighbors .
The U.N. says the other agreements will allow for the return of 13,000 Sudanese refugees living in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and for the return of nearly 7,000 Congolese refugees currently in Sudan .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says coalition forces killed 14 Taleban militants in separate clashes this week .
The military said Saturday 13 guerrillas were killed in two encounters in the central province of Uruzgan .
One Afghan soldier was killed and four others , including a U.S. soldier , were injured in the fighting .
Another militant was killed by U.S. troops in eastern Paktika province .
Separately , officials say four British soldiers from the NATO-led peacekeeping mission were wounded early Saturday in an attack in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif .
It was not immediately clear what motivated the attack .
Taleban rebels are not known to operate in northern Afghanistan and the area has been spared much of the bloodshed that has plagued southern and eastern regions .
A U.S. jury has found that drug maker Merck is not liable for the heart attack suffered by a man taking its painkiller Vioxx .
The New Jersey jurists agreed with Merck that job stress and health risks caused the 60-year old postal worker to have a heart attack four years ago .
The plaintiff argued Vioxx was responsible .
The jury also rejected the man 's claim that Merck failed to properly warn users about the drug 's risks .
Merck withdrew the popular drug last year after a study showed it doubled the risk of heart problems in long-term users .
Merck is facing thousands of other lawsuits over Vioxx .
Thursday 's verdict is only the second in a Vioxx case .
In the first , Merck was ordered to pay millions of dollars to the widow of a Vioxx user .
Merck is appealing that decision .
The rumors are true : Nicole Ritchie is pregnant .
Speaking to ABC News interviewer Dianne Sawyer , the 25-year-old co-star of TV 's The Simple Life said she is almost four months along in her pregnancy .
She said the father is her boyfriend , Joel Madden of the rock band Good Charlotte .
Ritchie also spoke about her guilty plea last week to driving under the influence and the resulting four-day jail sentence .
" I have a responsibility and it 's something that I did wrong , and if I could personally apologize to every single person that has lost a loved one from drunk driving , I would , " she said .
" And unfortunately I ca n't , but this is my way of paying my dues and taking responsibility and being an adult . "
The interview airs August 2 and 3 on Good Morning America , and later August 3 on 20/20 .
Witnesses in Somalia say insurgents have burned and dragged the bodies of at least two soldiers through the streets of Mogadishu , after a clash between militants and Ethiopian forces killed seven people .
The violence erupted Wednesday after insurgents attacked Ethiopian tanks rolling through an insurgent stronghold near the headquarters of the former Defense Ministry in southern Mogadishu .
Witnesses say the Ethiopian troops returned heavy fire and that several people were wounded in the fighting .
Ethiopia deployed soldiers to Somalia last December to help the interim government push an Islamist movement from power .
Somalia 's internationally-recognized government has since been struggling to contain regular outbursts of violence by fighters loyal to the fallen Islamist movement .
The African Union has deployed troops to Somalia to replace the Ethiopian forces , which Addis Ababa plans to withdraw .
Egyptian police have arrested at least 16 members of the opposition Muslim Brotherhood as parts of the country prepare for parliamentary runoff elections Saturday .
The arrests occurred Friday in Alexandria .
A spokesman for the Brotherhood said the arrests are an attempt to cut the Brotherhood off from its supporters and punishment for winning parliamentary seats in earlier elections .
The Muslim Brotherhood has tripled its strength in parliament in recent elections , raising the party 's total to 47 seats .
In Saturday 's elections , voters will cast ballots in nine provinces where no candidate won a majority in the previous round of voting .
The Muslim Brotherhood is banned as a political party , but it endorses so-called independent candidates whose allegiance to the party is known to voters .
Cuba and Panama have said they will restore consular relations , months after Havana broke ties with Panama City for pardoning four men convicted in connection with an assassination attempt against Cuban President Fidel Castro .
The countries agreed to reopen their consulates , following a meeting Friday between Panamanian President Martin Torrijos and Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage .
The meeting took place on the sidelines of the Ibero-American Summit in San Jose , Costa Rica , where heads of state were meeting to discuss a candidate to head the Organization of American States and other regional issues .
Cuba severed ties with Panama in August , hours after Panamanian President Mireya Moscoso , in her final days in office , pardoned the men , preventing their extradition to Cuba .
They were convicted of plotting to kill Mr. Castro during the 2000 Ibero-American summit in Panama City .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has sought the support of Pakistanis in the fight against religious extremism and terrorism .
He underlined the need of ridding the society of extremism and terrorism , saying they are hurting Pakistan 's image by their actions .
In a broadcast address to the nation Thursday , General Musharraf promised " stern action " against those involved in the printing , publication and distribution of hate material , including newspapers , magazines , pamphlets , and audio and video material .
He said no outlawed organization will be allowed to collect donations and action will be taken against those who preach hate in mosques .
Some Western leaders have said Pakistan should do more to curb militancy , and that extremists were operating in Islamic schools , or madrassas .
General Musharraf said all madrassas in Pakistan must be registered with the government by the end of this year .
U.S. health officials have called for updated quarantine procedures , including better access to airline and ship passenger lists , to protect Americans from infectious diseases , including bird flu .
The changes , proposed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control , would apply to planes and ships arriving from outside the United States as well as some domestic flights .
The CDC also called for giving U.S. health officials more authority to administer medical treatment and vaccinations to quarantined people .
Health officials say the need for new regulations became apparent during the 2003 SARS , Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak , when authorities found it difficult to get in touch with airline passengers who may have been exposed to the illness .
The proposals come amid growing concern about the spread of bird flu , which has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
First colonized by the Spanish , the islands came under British control in the early 19th century .
The islands ' sugar industry was hurt by the emancipation of the slaves in 1834 .
Manpower was replaced with the importation of contract laborers from India between 1845 and 1917 , which boosted sugar production as well as the cocoa industry .
The discovery of oil on Trinidad in 1910 added another important export .
Independence was attained in 1962 .
The country is one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks largely to petroleum and natural gas production and processing .
Tourism , mostly in Tobago , is targeted for expansion and is growing .
The government is coping with a rise in violent crime .
U.S. President Barack Obama has named Gene Sperling as the new head of the National Economic Council , which oversees the administration 's economic policies .
Sperling had the same job in President Bill Clinton 's administration .
He succeeds Lawrence Summers , another top economic official from the Clinton-era .
Sperling has spent the first two years of the Obama administration as a counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner .
Mr. Obama made the announcement Friday during a visit to a window manufacturer located outside of Washington , D.C.
Sperling 's appointment is the latest major staff change for the Obama administration as it begins dealing with a new Republican majority in the House of Representatives , and planning for the president 's likely re-election campaign in 2012 .
On Thursday , Mr. Obama named another ex-Clinton official , William Daley , as his new chief of staff , replacing Rahm Emmanuel .
Sudan 's government says it will order troops to end attacks immediately in Darfur , and is asking rebels to do the same .
Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail says Sudanese troops will also withdraw to positions held before an April cease-fire , if rebels in the western region agree to stop attacks .
Mr. Ismail announced the decision after meeting with officials from the United Nations and African Union in Khartoum Sunday .
In recent weeks , AU officials say Sudanese troops and rebels have repeatedly violated the April truce .
Saturday , the head of AU forces in Darfur accused Sudanese government helicopters of bombing rebel sites in the South Darfur village of Labado .
Khartoum says troops were defending their positions from rebel attacks .
Aid workers say some relief efforts have been suspended in South Darfur due to recent attacks .
Authorities in Bosnia-Herzegovina say they have arrested a former Bosnian Serb police officer for his suspected role in the 1995 massacre of Muslims near the eastern Bosnian town of Srebrenica .
The state prosecutor 's office says 37-year-old Dragan Neskovic was arrested Wednesday in the northeastern town of Bijeljina on suspicion of genocide .
No further details were released .
More than 8,000 Muslim men and boys were killed by Serb forces in July 1995 in what was supposed to have been a United Nations safe haven .
The Srebrenica killings are considered the worst European massacre since World War II .
The U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague has already sentenced 14 Serbs for their key roles in the killings .
Former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic is currently on trial there , charged with genocide and crimes against humanity .
The Bosnian war crimes court was established in 2005 to ease the workload of the Hague-based tribunal .
The Israeli military says Major General Udi Adam - the head of the army 's Northern Command - has announced his resignation .
A military statement Wednesday , said General Adam has asked to leave his post " as soon as possible , " and the chief of staff has accepted the request to begin the process of his replacement .
Adam was widely expected to leave the army after he was pushed aside near the end of the 34-day war against Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
He was replaced by another general as " coordinator of operations in Lebanon . "
Israeli media say Adam had several disagreements with the army chief , Lieutenant General Dan Halutz , over the conduct of the war .
The International Atomic Energy Agency is to hold second day of talks in Vienna Wednesday on how to respond to Iran 's resumption of low-level uranium conversion .
Iran this week restarted parts of the conversion process at its Isfahan nuclear plant .
Iranian officials say they expect to get access to sealed sensitive parts of the plant Wednesday , after an IAEA surveillance system begins functioning .
The step will allow the facility to operate at full capacity .
The European Union , with U.S. backing , has threatened to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council , which could impose sanctions if it finds Tehran has violated the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty .
Iran 's new President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday that European incentives aimed at persuading Iran to end its nuclear fuel program are an insult to the Iranian nation .
Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was guaranteed by the British in the late 19th century ; independence was granted in 1968 .
Student and labor unrest during the 1990s pressured King MSWATI III , the world 's last absolute monarch , to grudgingly allow political reform and greater democracy , although he has backslid on these promises in recent years .
A constitution came into effect in 2006 , but the legal status of political parties remains unclear .
The African United Democratic Party tried unsuccessfully to register as an official political party in mid 2006 .
Talks over the constitution broke down between the government and progressive groups in 2007 .
Swaziland recently surpassed Botswana as the country with the world 's highest known HIV / AIDS prevalence rate .
China 's giant pandas have been on endangered species lists for nearly 30 years .
There are only about 1,600 pandas still living in the wild in China .
One of the 2008 Olympic mascots is modeled on a panda called Jing Jing .
Conservationists hope she will help draw attention to the threats facing the giant panda -- one of China 's national symbols .
Sam Beattie reports from Jing Jing 's home in Sichuan province .
World number one men 's tennis player Roger Federer has been nearly unbeatable in the past year .
But his warmup for the Australian Open has abruptly ended with a rare loss .
The Swiss star was upset Wednesday by German Tommy Haas in the opening match of the Kooyong Classic in Melbourne .
Because he was playing in exhibition tournament , the loss will not count on his Association of Tennis Professionals Tour record .
The 41st ranked Haas fended off three break points while serving for the match and closed a 3-6 , 6-4 , 6-4 win with an ace .
Federer said he is completely healthy and has no concerns that the ankle problem that curtailed his last season would flare up before the Australian Open , which starts Monday .
World Bank member nations meeting in Washington have approved a debt relief plan for 17 African and Latin American countries that could total $ 37 billion over 40 years .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz said two-thirds of the bank members have now approved the plan , meaning the bank could start forgiving debts in July .
The move follows July 's pledge from the wealthy G-8 countries to cancel the debt of the world 's poorest countries , many of which are located in Africa .
The 17 countries now eligible for World Bank debt relief are Benin , Bolivia , Burkina Faso , Ethiopia , Ghana , Guyana , Honduras , Madagascar , Mali , Mozambique , Nicaragua , Niger , Rwanda , Senegal , Tanzania , Uganda and Zambia .
Authorities in volatile northwest Pakistan say six members of a family were killed when a grenade exploded in their vehicle Sunday .
Officials in the North Waziristan tribal region say a husband , a wife and their four children were killed instantly by the blast .
Four other people were wounded .
Officials say they do not know whether the family was transporting the grenade or if it was planted in their vehicle .
On Saturday , 12 children in northwest Pakistan were killed when they mistook a bomb for a toy and began playing with it .
A local police official , Said Zaman , said the children found the football-shaped bomb near their school in northwest Pakistan 's Lower Dir district .
It is not clear whether the bomb was placed there accidentally or deliberately .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign military forces from Iraq .
At a joint news conference with Jordan 's King Abdullah Thursday , the Russian leader said many Iraqis perceive the foreign troops as an occupying force .
He said a phased pull-out of coalition forces would help defuse the violence in Iraq and would help convince a considerable number of those involved in the Iraqi insurgency to join efforts for building a new political system in the war-torn country .
Mr. Putin also called for an international conference on Iraq to be held by the end of this year , saying it will give an added impulse to normalizing the situation in Iraq .
Mr. Putin and King Abdullah were meeting at the Russian president 's summer residence near Russia 's Black Sea resort of Sochi .
New studies by British and French researchers show quick treatment for minor strokes can dramatically cut the risk of major strokes later .
The research , published in the journals Lancetand Lancet Neurology , found that patients treated within 24 hours for so-called mini-strokes cut the later risk of a major stroke by about 80 percent .
Oxford researcher Peter Rothwell says the vast majority of British stroke patients wait several weeks before reporting mini-stroke symptoms to health care professionals .
The second study by French researchers also found that the early , aggressive treatment of mini-strokes brought similar benefits .
Strokes occur when blood flow to the brain is blocked .
Such events kill brain tissue and are one of the leading causes of death or permanent disability worldwide .
Symptoms include facial numbness , slurred speech , partial paralysis and sudden headaches .
Treatments include blood thinning drugs and anti-cholesterol medications .
European Union foreign ministers hold emergency talks in Luxembourg Sunday in efforts to break a deadlock on Turkey , which is scheduled to begin membership negotiations with the bloc one day later .
The ministers called the meeting after Austria insisted that EU talks with Turkey should include an alternative to giving the country full membership .
Austria says most Austrians object to full EU membership for Turkey and suggested offering Turkey privileged partnership instead .
But Turkey calls that unacceptable and says it will not take part in Monday 's talks unless it is clear that the goal is full membership .
EU diplomats are working on proposals to soften Austrian opposition .
One would be a commitment to begin membership talks with Austria 's neighbor Croatia in the near future .
EU ministers had delayed the talks because of Croatian failure to cooperate fully with The Hague war crimes tribunal .
A human-rights group in Niger says the government is to blame for cancellation of a ceremony that was to grant 7,000 slaves their freedom .
The group Timidria had planned to release the slaves in the Ates region near Niger 's western border with Mali on Saturday , but the event was called off when none of the slaves showed up .
The rights group says the government intimidated slaves to keep them from attending the ceremony - a charge the government denies .
Niger officially banned slavery in 2003 , but human-rights groups say 43,000 people are still in bondage in the West African nation .
They are among the 200,000 people enslaved along centuries-old Arab-African Saharan trade routes .
Generations of Africans have been born in slavery , many under the ownership of one family .
The band at Ellsworth Air Force Base , South Dakota , was required to play for all generals who arrived on base .
One morning , when the commanding officer heard on the radio that a General Frost was expected just after noon , he sent the band scrambling to the flight line with instruments .
One of the musicians had also heard the radio announcement .
He took the C.O . aside for a whispered conference .
When they returned , the officer told us the performance was canceled .
There was no arriving general .
We had almost played for the weather forecast .
Haiti 's interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortue says he has no plans to send a special envoy to South Africa to meet with ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Earlier reports said Mr. Latortue was sending a representative to talk with Mr. Aristide and South African President Thabo Mbeki .
Mr. Aristide has been living in exile in South Africa since he was forced from power last February .
The reports said the envoy would try to convince Mr. Aristide to persuade his followers to stop fighting his foes and help stabilize Haiti before elections planned this year .
More than 200 people have died in the violence since September .
A Council of Europe panel says Turkey has passed important legislation protecting minority rights , but has not adequately enforced the new laws .
In a report , the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance says that despite the new legislation , Turkey 's constitution and its civil , criminal and administrative laws continue to have gaps in addressing racism .
The report , issued Tuesday in Strasbourg , says Kurds and other minorities still face adversity in Turkey , particularly from ongoing violence in the southeast where Kurdish separatists have been active in recent decades .
Turkey 's move to push through legal and economic reforms is considered an essential part of its bid to join the European Union .
The Council of Europe is a 46-nation group that brings together lawmakers from democratic European countries to review major issues facing the continent .
A persistent knee problem has forced Australian Open tennis champion Marat Safin of Russia to withdraw from the Hopman Cup mixed-team tennis tournament in Perth , Australia .
Safin has struggled with tendonitis in his right knee .
After missing the Paris Masters tournament and season-ending Masters Cup in Shanghai in November , Safin says his priority is to get ready to defend his Australian Open title rather than play in the Hopman event .
The Hopman Cup starts Friday with a qualifying match between China and the Netherlands .
Safin has been replaced on the Russian team by 20-year-old Teimuraz Gabashvili , who will partner Svetlana Kuznetsova .
Russia is in Group-A with the United States , Sweden and Serbia-Montenegro , and will not play until next Tuesday .
The French government has confirmed the presence of the deadly H5N1 strain of the bird flu among domestic poultry in the southeastern part of the country .
It is the first outbreak among domestic waterfowl in the European Union .
The French agriculture ministry said late Friday that lab tests have verified that the deadly strain killed a turkey on a farm near Lyons .
The farm has been sealed off and more than 11,000 birds have been slaughtered since the illness struck Thursday .
Previously the deadly H5N1 form of the virus has been found only in wild birds in France and other EU countries .
The Japanese government on Friday banned the import French poultry products .
Separately , European Union health ministers met in Vienna Friday to discuss a public campaign to ease fears and raise awareness .
A preliminary medical study has indicated that an ingredient in chocolate may improve the circulation of blood in the brain and heart .
Scientists at the American Association for the Advancement of Science discussed the findings Sunday at a convention in San Francisco , California .
They said flavinols , an anti-oxidant found in cocoa beans , can increase blood flow to the brain .
But researchers caution us not to start eating chocolate for its health benefits .
They say the flavinols are removed from most chocolate because they have a bitter taste .
Scientists say larger-scale testing is needed to back up the early research .
They also say eating high-calorie foods - like chocolate - can lead to health problems .
Pakistani officials say militants in northwest Pakistan have bombed a tanker truck carrying fuel to NATO forces in Afghanistan , destroying the tanker and a nearby van .
Officials say the bomb was attached to the tanker and exploded Wednesday as the vehicle traveled through the Khyber tribal area toward the Afghan border .
The number of casualties is not clear .
At least four people were reported wounded by the explosion and there are reports of at least one death .
Taliban militants regularly attack NATO supply vehicles that pass through Pakistan .
NATO and U.S.-led forces battling insurgents in landlocked Afghanistan are dependent on Pakistan for supplies , with at least 75 percent passing through that country .
Former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic has asked The Hague tribunal to subpoena British Prime Minister Tony Blair and former U.S. President Bill Clinton as defense witnesses in his war crimes case .
Mr. Milosevic said he has sent letters to embassies of a number of western countries requesting the testimony .
But he said their responses indicate the officials are not willing to appear .
The judges instructed Mr. Milosevic to present his request in writing .
His witness list also includes former U.S , Secretary of State Madeleine Albright , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and German Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping .
Mr. Milosevic 's request came as he resumed conducting his own case after the court reversed an order forcing him to accept appointed counsel because of concerns about his failing health .
Mr. Milosevic faces more than 60 counts of war crimes in the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s .
Meteorologists say the storm known as Rita has strengthened into a category 1 hurricane .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Rita is packing winds of about 120 kilometers per hour as it moves west , past the Bahamas and toward the Florida Keys .
The storm reportedly caused little damage in the Bahamas .
However , thousands of tourists and residents have fled the Keys , a low-lying chain of islands off Florida 's southern coast .
Hurricane warnings remain in effect for the Keys and parts of western Cuba , including Havana .
Forecasters expect Rita to enter the Gulf of Mexico by Wednesday , and say it is possible that Rita will strike areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast devastated three weeks ago by Hurricane Katrina .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has ordered state-run broadcasters to stop playing Western and so-called " indecent " music .
Iranian media reported Monday that he asked the agency in charge of television and radio broadcasts , the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting , to implement the change within six months .
Mr. Ahmadinejad also called for the government to supervise the content of foreign-made television shows and films .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was elected earlier this year on a hard-line platform that called for a return to conservative principles .
Music performances and education in Iran had been sharply limited after Islamic clerics seized power in Iran in 1979 .
Many of those limits have been relaxed in recent years .
The Israeli military says it has arrested a senior commander of the Palestinian faction Hamas after he spent more than a decade on the run .
Israeli troops and the Shin Bet security service caught Maher Uda overnight Saturday near the West Bank town of Ramallah .
Uda has been on Israel 's most wanted list since the 1990s .
He is considered a founding member of the Hamas military branch in the West Bank .
Israel blames him for the deaths of at least 70 Israelis .
Hamas has accused Palestinian security forces of helping Israel detain Uda .
The Palestinian Authority has not commented on the case .
The Palestinian Authority runs the West Bank , while Hamas has control over the Gaza Strip .
The Palestinian Islamist group took control of Gaza in 2007 , after battling forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
The Palestinian militant group , Hamas , says Syria has detained four Arabs allegedly recruited by Israel to kill Damascus-based Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal .
Speaking Tuesday in Lebanon , a Hamas spokesman said the four detainees are members of an Arab security service from an unidentified Middle East country .
The Syrian government has not commented .
Khaled Meshaal is widely viewed as Hamas ' overall leader , since Israel assassinated two other top Hamas figures earlier this year .
The latest Hamas charges come more than a month after Israel promised to restart an assassination campaign targeting Palestinian militants at home and abroad .
Israel announced the new assassination push days after Hamas suicide bombers struck two buses in southern Israel , killing 16 people .
Pakistan 's political opposition stormed out of parliament Friday over government statements that a top Pakistani nuclear scientist provided Iran with centrifuges .
Pakistan 's Information Minister acknowledged for the first time Thursday that Abdul Qadeer Khan sold centrifuges to Iran that can be used to process uranium for nuclear weapons .
Opposition lawmakers called the remarks irresponsible and stormed out after the parliament 's chairman refused to hold a debate on the issue .
Mr. Khan , known as the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb , has been under virtual house arrest after coming under investigation for passing nuclear secrets to Iran , North Korea and Libya .
Italy 's interior minister says authorities have thwarted planned terrorist attacks ahead of the country 's upcoming parliamentary elections .
Giuseppe Pisanu told reporters on the sidelines of a campaign rally in Cagliari , Sardinia , that the plot targeted the Milan subway and a basilica in Bologna .
He said it involved seven people and that three of them have been expelled from Italy , two are under arrest , one is under surveillance , and another is still at large .
Pisanu said the group planned to attack the San Petronio basilica in Bologna .
It features a fresco that Muslim groups have said is insulting to the Prophet Muhammad .
Pisanu 's remarks come as Italians are preparing for national elections on Sunday and Monday .
Magna International Inc. 's chief financial officer , James McAlpine , resigned and its chairman , Frank Stronach , is stepping in to help turn the automotive-parts manufacturer around , the company said .
Mr. Stronach will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending " until a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained , " Magna said .
Stephen Akerfeldt , currently vice president finance , will succeed Mr. McAlpine .
An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn .
The company has reported declines in operating profit in each of the past three years , despite steady sales growth .
Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company 's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars ( US $ 13.73 ) .
On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday , Magna shares closed up 37.5 Canadian cents to C $ 9.625 .
Mr. Stronach , founder and controlling shareholder of Magna , resigned as chief executive officer last year to seek , unsuccessfully , a seat in Canada 's Parliament .
Analysts said Mr. Stronach wants to resume a more influential role in running the company .
They expect him to cut costs throughout the organization .
The company said Mr. Stronach will personally direct the restructuring , assisted by Manfred Gingl , president and chief executive .
Neither they nor Mr. McAlpine could be reached for comment .
Magna said Mr. McAlpine resigned to pursue a consulting career , with Magna as one of his clients .
Iraqi defense lawyers representing Saddam Hussein before a special tribunal say they have suspended all contact with the court until their safety is guaranteed .
In a statement , the lawyers cited the kidnapping and murder last week of their colleague Saadoun al-Janabi who represented one of Saddam 's co-defendants .
They said the deteriorating security situation also makes it impossible to have a fair and open trial .
They have demanded U.N. protection , as well as the hiring of 15 bodyguards for each lawyer , and an independent international investigation into their colleague 's murder .
Saddam Hussein and seven associates entered " not guilty " pleas at the opening of their trial last Wednesday for the 1982 murders of 143 Shi'ite men in the town of Dujail .
The trial was adjourned until November 28 .
A Netherlands court has opened a pretrial hearing in the case of a Dutch businessman charged with complicity in genocide by selling chemical weapons ingredients to ousted Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein .
Frans van Anraat appeared Friday in a Rotterdam courtroom .
The 62-year-old defendant is accused of exporting tons of chemicals that Iraq used to make weapons over a four-year period beginning in 1984 .
Prosecutors say Saddam used the weapons in the 1988 attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja that killed 5,000 people .
Some survivors of the attack attended Friday 's hearing .
A prosecutor told the court Mr. van Anraat continued to sell Iraq chemicals even after the Halabja attack .
But the defendant denies any wrongdoing .
Mr. van Anraat fled to Iraq in 1989 .
He returned to the Netherlands after the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 .
Another hearing is expected in June , and the trial in November .
Embattled Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo has said he wants to talk with his rival , Alassane Ouattara .
Mr. Gbagbo has been isolated by the international community , including the United States , after refusing to yield the presidency although he had fewer votes than Mr. Ouattara in last month 's poll .
Both men have taken the oath of office and begun organizing competing governments .
Earlier this week , the African Union dispatched former South African president Thabo Mbeki to seek a solution , but after two days of talks , the situation was not resolved .
The Ivory Coast 's presidential election , its first in 10 years , was meant to restore stability to the West African country , which was split into rebel- and government-controlled areas during a 2002 civil war .
Cameroon says its security forces have freed six hostages kidnapped two weeks ago off the country 's coast .
Communications Minister Issa Tchiroma says the six were freed Thursday and handed over to representatives of their respective diplomatic missions on Friday following medical examinations .
Tchiroma refused to give any additional details on the operation .
Rebels from Cameroon 's Bakassi Peninsula claimed responsibility for the kidnappings .
It is not clear whether the rebels are from a group called Bakassi Freedom Fighters or a splinter group known as Africa Marine Commando .
The hostages - four Ukrainians , one Croatian and one Philippine national - were kidnapped from vessels off the coast of Cameroon on September 12 .
A quarrel had arisen between the Horse and the Stag , so the Horse came to a Hunter to ask his help to take revenge on the Stag .
The Hunter agreed , but said : " If you desire to conquer the Stag , you must permit me to place this piece of iron between your jaws , so that I may guide you with these reins , and allow this saddle to be placed upon your back so that I may keep steady upon you as we follow after the enemy . "
The Horse agreed to the conditions , and the Hunter soon saddled and bridled him .
Then with the aid of the Hunter the Horse soon overcame the Stag , and said to the Hunter : " Now , get off , and remove those things from my mouth and back . "
" Not so fast , friend , " said the Hunter .
" I have now got you under bit and spur , and prefer to keep you as you are at present . "
If you allow men to use you for your own purposes , they will use you for theirs .
Oil refineries , drilling platforms and pipelines largely escaped damage from Hurricane Rita , sending prices down to about $ 64 a barrel in Monday morning trading .
The falling prices were unlike the dramatic spike that followed Hurricane Katrina , but that has not eased worries among industry analysts and politicians about the tight oil supply .
Nearly all the major refineries along the Gulf of Mexico were shut down before or during Hurricane Rita , cutting total U.S. oil production by nearly 30 percent .
With little excess refining capacity , analysts say oil prices remain vulnerable to even minor disruptions in the global supply .
The U.S. Energy Department Monday will brief President Bush on damage to Gulf oil facilities and the status of the nation 's energy industry .
An international press freedom advocacy group is calling for the unconditional release of Burmese journalist U Win Tin who is about to spend his 76th birthday in prison .
The Paris-based group Reporters Without Borders issued a joint statement Friday , along with the Burma Media Association saying U Win Tin has been deprived of basic human rights .
They say he is not allowed to write and has been denied proper medical care for chronic health ailments .
The statement says that since the beginning of the year , he has been denied visits from the International Committee of the Red Cross .
U Win Tin was arrested in 1989 and is serving a 20-year sentence for writing anti-government propaganda .
He will turn 76 March 12 .
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful .
When their strife was at its height , a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice , and said in a boastful tone : " Pray , my dear friends , in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings . "
Suicide bomb blasts have killed at least 12 people at a military recruitment center in central Baghdad .
More than 36 others were wounded in the strike , which witnesses say was carried out by at least two attackers .
Witnesses describe a scene of devastation in the area around the blast site , and hospital officials say they were treating numerous wounded .
The strike took place at the same recruitment center where a suicide attack killed at least 59 people last month .
Insurgents have stepped up their attacks in recent weeks , coinciding with a drawdown in U.S. troops .
As of September first , the United States says it is no longer engaged in combat operations , renaming the mission one of advice and assistance to Iraqi forces .
The Iraqi government last week placed the country on highest alert .
Officials in Afghanistan say a suicide bomber has killed four Afghan employees of a U.S.-owned private security firm and wounded one other in southern Kandahar province .
Authorities said Sunday the bomber rode a motorbike next to a vehicle owned by the company , U.S. Protection and Investigations , and detonated his explosives .
Three guards and the vehicle 's driver were killed , and another guard was wounded .
On Saturday , a suicide bomber killed seven police officers and a civilian in eastern Afghanistan 's Khost province , near the Pakistan border .
The Taleban is reported to have taken responsibility for the blast .
NATO forces in Afghanistan are preparing for another upsurge in violence this year , having already launched an operation in the south to preempt an anticipated offensive by Taleban fighters .
Lebanese security officials say Syria has pulled two-thousand more troops out of Lebanon 's eastern Bekaa Valley .
Officials in Beirut today Monday say the latest withdrawal brings the Syrian military presence down to about eight-thousand troops , the lowest level since they entered Lebanon nearly three decades ago .
Lebanese officials say the Syrian-Lebanese Military Commission will meet next week to set a timetable for the complete withdrawal of all remaining Syrian forces .
Also Monday , a senior Lebanese Foreign Ministry official is en route to New York to attend a U.N. Security Council meeting .
Council members are expected to call for an international investigation of last month 's assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri .
In other developments , Lebanon 's main opposition leader Walid Jumblatt says he has no current plans to press for disarmament of the militant group Hezbollah .
Ethiopia 's foreign ministry says authorities have pardoned nearly 18,000 prisoners to mark the occasion of the country 's third millennium .
In a statement Friday the ministry says the federal and regional governments pardoned 17,765 prisoners after reviewing recommendations made by national and regional pardon boards .
It said the pardons were issued September 11 , on the eve of the nation 's new year and millennium celebration .
Ethiopia celebrated the new millennium on September 12 - seven years after the rest of most of the world .
Ethiopia follows the Julian calendar , instead of the more common Gregorian calendar .
It is not the first time the nation has issued pardons at the new year .
Last year , at this time , Ethiopia pardoned more than 14,000 prisoners .
The ministry suggested more pardons could be coming , saying that the pardon boards in the Afar and Somali regions are still examining applications .
A hijacker seized a Sudanese passenger plane Wednesday and forced the pilot to fly to the Chadian capital , N'Djamena , before surrendering to authorities there .
No one was injured .
Officials say the plane , carrying 103 passengers , was hijacked this morning after it took off from Khartoum for Sudan 's western city of Al-Fasher .
Chadian forces surrounded the plane shortly after it landed in N'Djamena .
Officials say the hijacker was armed with a pistol and wanted the plane to be flown to Britain , where he wanted asylum .
When told there was not enough fuel , he agreed to go to neighboring Chad .
Americans Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock and France 's Yves Chauvin have won this year 's Nobel Prize in Chemistry .
The award was announced Wednesday , morning at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm .
The trio was cited for their work that led the way in the manufacturing of better drugs and environmentally-friendly plastics .
Mr. Chauvin began work in 1971 in the field of metathesis , which studies how molecules are broken down and then rearranged .
Mr. Schrock and Mr. Grubbs later developed more efficient and stable catalysts to reproduce the reaction .
All three men will share the $ 1.3 million cash award , which they will receive during a formal ceremony on December 10 .
The top U.S. diplomat says China should make significant economic reforms so it does not continue to be a " problem for the international economy . "
In a New York Times newspaper interview , published Friday , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Washington also worries about China 's military buildup , human rights practices and religious restrictions .
It is a change of tone for Ms. Rice , who generally casts Sino-American relations in a positive light .
Her comments come just a month before Chinese President Hu Jintao makes his first visit to Washington since taking office in 2003 .
He will arrive amid Washington 's complaints that China manipulates the value of its currency to make its products unfairly cheap on world markets .
Beijing recently changed the value of its currency slightly , but U.S. critics say the change is not large enough to make trade fair .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has warned governments around the world not to ignore international agreements prohibiting torture .
In a statement issued for International Human Rights Day Saturday , Mr. Annan said there has been a disturbing trend of nations claiming exceptions to prohibitions on torture , based on their own national security perceptions .
The U.N. chief said torture can never be a tool to fight terror , but rather is an instrument of terror .
In a separate statement , 33 U.N. human rights experts expressed alarm at attempts by many countries to circumvent international human rights laws by giving new names to practices such as torture .
The experts called on governments to respect human rights standards and to not ignore them when they become , in the statement 's wording , " inconvenient . "
The United States says it is providing nearly $ 19 million in emergency aid for Ethiopia 's volatile Ogaden region .
The State Department said Friday Washington is working with the Ethiopian government , international partners and non-governmental organizations in responding to concerns over humanitarian conditions in the eastern region .
The U.S. says most of the $ 18.7 million will help provide food assistance through the United Nations World Food Program .
Some funds also will help pay for health , nutrition , and livelihood programs .
Years of drought , flooding , civil conflict , disease and food shortages have left residents in Ogaden vulnerable to poverty and famine .
Ethiopia 's Ogaden , also known as the Somali region , is an oil-rich , but poor area that is ethnically Somali .
It has long sought autonomy from Addis Ababa .
Turkish police have detained more than 80 people and used tear gas to prevent thousands of leftist protesters from marching to Istanbul 's Taksim square to hold a May Day rally .
Authorities declared the square off-limits to protesters , but allowed a small number of trade union leaders to lay flowers at the square to mark the day .
Officials had shut down schools in the area for the day for fear of violence .
Members of leftist groups often clash with police during May Day observances in Turkey .
In 1977 , a May Day rally at Taksim square turned violent when unidentified gunmen opened fire on a crowd of demonstrators .
Thirty-seven people were killed in that incident .
The head of the U.N. nulcear agency says Iran has agreed to allow inspectors access to a military site that the United States alleges is linked to a secret nuclear weapons program .
Mohamed ElBaradei , the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency , said in Vienna Wednesday U.N. inspectors could be expected to visit the Parchin military complex " within days or weeks . "
The IAEA has been pressing Iran for months for access to the military site , located about 30 kilometers southeast of Tehran .
The United States says it suspects the Iranian military may be involved in nuclear arms research at the specially secured complex .
Iran insists that its nuclear activity is for peaceful purposes and that its military is not involved .
Afghan authorities say NATO and Afghan troops have retrieved the flight recorder from the wreckage of an Afghan airliner , ten days after the plane crashed into a mountain near Kabul .
An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman says the flight recorder , also known as " black box , " is now in the hands of the investigating commission .
A break in bad winter weather earlier Sunday allowed troops and investigators to reach the crash site for the first time since the Boeing 737 hit the mountain during a blizzard .
None of the 104 people on board survived the crash , making it Afghanistan 's worst civil aviation disaster .
Authorities estimate the recovery of the remains will take weeks .
Ukrainian opposition supporters have ended their two-week-long blockade of government buildings and streets in Kiev , but some protesters vow to stay until a runoff election is held .
Opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko told demonstrators to go home , after parliament approved new anti-fraud laws for a court ordered December 26 repeat of the runoff vote .
President Bush Thursday congratulated Presidents Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland and Valdas Adamkus of Lithuania for helping mediate an end to the political crisis .
Also Thursday , Russia and NATO agreed to work to ensure free and fair elections in Ukraine .
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych was declared the winner of the flawed November election .
He calls the new election laws illegal and say they will do nothing to stop fraud .
Italy says an Italian photographer kidnapped in Afghanistan last month has been freed .
Italy 's Defense Ministry said Gabriele Torsello was released Friday .
It gave no details .
Torsello and his interpreter disappeared between October 12 and 14 .
Torsello 's kidnappers had said they would kill him if Italy 's 18,00 troops were not withdrawn from Afghanistan .
In western Herat province , suspected militants with machine guns killed six policemen on patrol .
The district police chief was among those killed , and three police were wounded .
Israeli police have lifted an alert in Tel Aviv , hours after warning of a possible attack .
Security officials set up barricades at entry points into the city earlier Tuesday to check for suspicious vehicles , causing heavy traffic jams .
No further details have been released .
A U.S. newspaper reports that Washington is asking China to pressure North Korea on its alleged nuclear weapons program .
A story in Wednesday 's New York Times says two members of President Bush 's National Security Council recently met with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Beijing .
The report says the officials discussed new evidence that Pyongyang may have sold to Libya a form of uranium used in nuclear weapons .
The Times quotes Asian officials who say China has promised to send a delegation to North Korea .
But the officials say China also advised President Bush against making the kind of public statements about the North Korean situation as he did about Iraq 's alleged threat before the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 .
" ARE the industries of this country in a flourishing condition ? " asked a Traveller from a Foreign Land of the first man he met in America .
" Splendid ! " said the Man .
" I have more orders than I can fill . "
" What is your business ? " the Traveller from a Foreign Land inquired .
The Man replied , " I make boxing-gloves for the tongues of pugilists . "
The United Nations is beginning a formal inquiry Wednesday into the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .
A Pakistani investigation last year concluded that Taliban militants were likely responsible for Ms. Bhutto 's death in December 2007 .
But her political party has suggested that Ms. Bhutto 's political opponents may have played a role in the plot .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon announced the creation of the fact-finding commission after meeting with Ms. Bhutto 's widower , Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari , in Islamabad last February .
Ms. Bhutto was killed in a bomb attack after addressing an election rally near the Pakistani capital .
The Israeli army says its soldiers patrolling the border with Egypt have mistakenly shot and wounded an Egyptian security officer .
A military spokeswoman Monday said Israeli troops on patrol outside the city of Eilat saw what they considered a suspicious , armed person at the border .
She said the troops fired at the man after he cocked his weapon .
The Israeli army says the soldiers only then realized the man , who was wounded in the chest , was an Egyptian security officer .
A joint Israeli-Egyptian team is investigating the incident .
Shootings between Israeli and Egyptian forces along the border region have been rare since the two countries signed a peace treaty in 1979 .
Ukraine 's Deputy Prime Minister Mykola Azarov says U.S. plans to build a missile defense system in central Europe are a threat to Ukraine .
Azarov said Monday that such a system close to the Ukrainian border would be a target of attack and threaten to suck Ukraine into a conflict .
Washington says it wants to build missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic to counter a possible threat by North Korean and Iranian long-range missiles .
Russia has also called the plans a mistake and has noted that neither North Korea nor Iran have such missiles .
The Pentagon has acknowledged that Iran does not currently possess long-range missiles , but says it is important to stay one step ahead .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan is calling on NATO and the European Union to do more to help end violence in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Speaking at the Munich Security Conference , Mr. Annan said NATO and the EU have the capacity to protect the people who are dying every day in western Sudan .
He said more international forces are needed to help stop fighting and to provide for secure humanitarian operations .
Mr. Annan says an African Union mission of about 3,000 troops and observers in the region can not do the job alone .
Earlier this month , a U.N. panel found that civilians in Darfur have been brutalized in a campaign that may amount to crimes against humanity .
Sudanese troops and pro-government forces have been fighting rebels , who launched an uprising two years ago .
The United Nations ' top humanitarian official is in Somalia to urge the interim government to allow humanitarian aid to reach the country 's people .
John Holmes , who arrived in the Somali capital of Mogadishu Saturday , is the highest-ranking U.N. official to visit the Horn of Africa nation in more than a decade .
Earlier Saturday , four people were killed when a bomb exploded nearly 400 meters from the U.N. compound in southern Mogadishu .
The trip by Holmes is taking place in the aftermath of heavy fighting between allied Somali-Ethiopian forces and Islamists in Mogadishu that killed hundreds of Somalis and forced up to 400,000 others to escape to makeshift camps on the city 's outskirts .
Many of them are living in squalid conditions , with little food , water or shelter .
A U.S. Defense Department spokesman says Uzbekistan has restricted American military flights from its soil in recent weeks .
But the spokesman refused to link the change directly to U.S. criticism of the Uzbek government 's violent crackdown on anti-government protesters last month .
He said Uzbekistan has stopped allowing U.S. nighttime flights from its air base at Karshi-Khanabad , which American forces use to support operations and supply humanitarian aid to neighboring Afghanistan .
He said the U.S. military has been working around the restrictions .
Uzbekistan opened the airfield to U.S. forces in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the United States .
Washington in recent weeks has been criticizing the Uzbek government for not allowing an international probe into its handling of last month 's uprising in the eastern city of Andijan .
Tropical Storm Alpha made landfall early Sunday in the Dominican Republic .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the storm came ashore near the city of Barahona , with maximum sustained winds close to 85 kilometers per hour .
The center says Alpha is expected to weaken rapidly but not before bringing heavy rain and possible flooding to the Dominican Republic and neighboring Haiti .
Alpha is the 22nd named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , breaking the previous record set in 1933 .
Forecasters have run through this year 's list of names and have turned to the Greek alphabet .
Tropical storm warnings remain in effect for the Dominican Republic , Haiti , the Turks and Caicos Islands , and the southeastern Bahamas .
The Russian and European space agencies have announced a deal to build a manned spacecraft for near-earth orbits and trips to the moon .
Russian news agency reports quote a spokesman for the Russian agency Roskosmos as saying engineers want to test a 20-ton capsule by 2015 .
A first launch is planned for 2018 at a launch center in Siberia .
Under the pact , Russia will build the capsule , while European engineers build the service module and the engine block .
The new craft is to be phased in as the replacement for Russia 's Soyuz spacecraft , which has come under increased scrutiny this year , after two consecutive rough landings on return from the International Space Station .
The West African regional group known as ECOWAS is set to hold an emergency summit Wednesday in Niger to discuss the situation in Togo .
International criticism of Togolese authorities continued Tuesday over the choice of Faure Gnassingbe as the country 's new president after the military installed him hours after his father 's death Saturday .
Reacting to the criticism , Togo 's parliament amended the constitution on Sunday to allow Mr. Gnassingbe to serve out his father 's , Gnassingbe Eyadema 's term ending in 2008 .
The constitution had called for naming the speaker of parliament as interim president until elections are held in two months .
The African Union 's Peace and Security Council Tuesday branded Mr. Gnassingbe 's seizure of power " a blatant and unacceptable violation of the Togolese constitution . "
The United States , Britain and France are calling for new elections .
The U.S. military has confirmed that it shot down an unmanned Iranian aircraft over Iraq last month .
A military spokesman Monday said U.S. forces tracked the drone in Iraqi airspace for one hour and ten minutes before shooting it down , about 100 kilometers north of Baghdad .
The spokesman added that " this was not an accident on the part of the Iranians . "
The incident was first reported by Wired.com earlier this month but , at the time , the U.S. military declined comment .
Washington has previously accused Iran of meddling in the affairs of neighboring Iraq , where the U.S. has had troops since it invaded the country in 2003 .
Opposition leaders in Pakistan say police have detained at least 150 activists across the country before planned protests on Monday against the removal of the country 's top judge .
Authorities give conflicting accounts of the detentions .
Some local police and government officials say they detained activists to prevent further protests , while others say they know nothing about the detentions .
Pakistan has been shaken by demonstrations since President Pervez Musharraf removed Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry from office on March 9 .
Mr. Musharraf says he suspended Chaudhry because of complaints that he had abused his authority .
Chaudhry denies the allegations .
Lawyers and opposition parties say the president is trying to interfere with the independence of the judiciary .
Mr. Musharraf swore in senior judge Rana Bhagwandas as acting chief justice on Saturday .
The U.S. military says an American soldier has been killed and two others wounded in fighting with Taleban rebels in southern Afghanistan .
Seven militants were reported captured Tuesday during the fighting in Uruzgan province , the scene of a spate of suicide bombings in recent months .
In Kabul Tuesday , Afghan authorities say police fired into a crowd of rioting prison inmates , killing one and wounding at least three others .
Officials say the gunfire erupted as hundreds of prisoners tried a mass escape after government talks with the inmates broke down .
Late Tuesday , a man claiming to be an American journalist inmate told Western journalists by cell phone that rioting Taleban inmates were threatening to kill him .
Free-lance journalist Edward Caraballo was jailed in 2004 along with two other Americans found guilty of running a private prison and torturing Afghan suspects .
Armenia has launched an aerial tramway line that it says is the world 's longest .
President Serzh Sarkisian attended the opening of the tramway Saturday , in the country 's southern mountains near Armenia 's border with Iran .
The 5.7-kilometer engineering feat spans the Vorotan River gorge , linking a village off the main highway to the 9th century Tatev Monastery .
The monastery is one of the country 's oldest and most prominent monasteries and is a major tourist attraction .
Iraqi police say a U.S. airstrike on a home in northern Iraq late Monday killed a number of people from the same family , but there are conflicting reports about the incident .
Residents in the town of Bayji say at least seven bodies were pulled from the rubble .
Locals say there may be several more people inside .
U.S. military officials have not commented on the Iraqi police report .
But the military issued a statement saying three men who were observed planting roadside bombs in Bayji later went to a nearby building , which was fired on by U.S. aircraft using precision-guided munitions .
Separately , Iraq 's election commission and international observers are now in Baghdad to review fraud allegations from last month 's parliamentary vote .
Final election results are not expected until after the visiting experts complete their work .
The U.S. State Department has informed its diplomats that some will be required to serve in Iraq because of a lack of volunteers willing to work there .
The department sent a cable Friday to all diplomats , saying that 200 to 300 people will be notified Monday that they are prime candidates for postings in Iraq .
Harry Thomas , the director-general of the U.S. Foreign Service , said those notified would have 10 days to accept or reject the position .
Thomas said those who refuse face the possibility of dismissal .
He said diplomats sent to Iraq will receive extra pay and vacation time .
There are precedents for the directed assignments .
In 1969 , an entire class of diplomats was sent to Vietnam .
During the 1970s and 1980s , some were required to work at embassies in Africa .
The race for Iraq 's new prime minister narrowed Tuesday , when one of two top Shi'ite parties withdrew its candidate from consideration .
Interim Finance Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi , who had been the candidate of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq , withdrew his name from contention .
This leaves the head of the Islamic Dawa Party , Ibrahim al-Jaafari , as the likely front-runner .
Both parties belong to the United Iraqi Alliance , which won about 48 percent of the vote for the National Assembly .
Meanwhile , Iraq 's Electoral Commission says it has received at least three complaints from political groups challenging the election results .
A final , certified vote tally is expected Wednesday .
And Turkish shipping magnate Kahraman Sadikoglu , who was abducted in southern Iraq in December , has been freed after reports said his family paid a ransom to his kidnappers .
Iran says it will hold talks with the United States next week on security in Iraq .
Iran 's official IRNA news agency quoted Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini Sunday as saying Tehran agreed to the talks in order to lessen the pain of the Iraqi people , support the Iraqi government and establish security and peace in Iraq .
The report said Iran received a request for the talks through the Swiss Embassy in Tehran , which often acts as an intermediary for the U.S. in the country .
A spokeswoman for U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney , who is in the region , said the United States is willing to discuss Iraq with Iranian officials .
U.S. officials have said they want to see Iran and Syria increase control over their borders , and stop supporting militias and insurgents in Iraq .
The Iranian spokesman said the time and date of the talks would be made public this week .
Chad 's national assembly has authorized President Idriss Deby to renew a state of emergency imposed after a rebel attack on the capital , N'Djamena , early this month .
The parliament voted Friday to extend the emergency measure for another 15 days , until March 15 .
Mr. Deby declared exceptional powers for his government on February 15 after rebels attacked the capital in an effort to oust the president .
President Deby said the measures were necessary to maintain order in the country .
The emergency decree authorizes a midnight-to-dawn curfew and allows the government to ban meetings , control the movement of people and vehicles , and censor what is published in the media .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his administration to study foreign and domestic criticism of a bill to strictly regulate non-governmental organizations .
Mr. Putin offered no specific suggestions , but ordered submission of amendments to the controversial bill within five days .
As presently written , the bill would subject Russian branches of foreign organizations to various restrictions and to the oversight of Russian authorities .
Human rights groups have condemned the measure , calling it a reflection of the Kremlin 's crackdown on civil society institutions .
President Putin said Monday that such a bill is necessary to combat the threats of terrorism and what he called " misanthropic ideologies . "
But , he said , a civil society is crucial , and Russia can not afford to curtail that development .
A 13-year-old Cambodian girl has died from bird flu , bringing to seven the number of people in the country who have died from the virus .
The World Health Organization and Cambodian Health Ministry have confirmed that the girl was infected with the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Elsewhere , Indonesia said it has confirmed another human bird flu fatality in the country .
Officials there say the 15-year-old girl 's death brings to 73 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the H5N1 strain .
The WHO has not confirmed those results , and has so far confirmed only 63 people dying from bird flu in Indonesia .
The country has more bird flu deaths than any other nation .
WHO officials say 171 people have died from the virus worldwide since the outbreak began in 2003 , mostly in Asian countries .
Crude oil prices fell Wednesday after a U.S. government report showed an increase in inventories , reflecting decreased demand .
The price of a barrel of oil for future delivery fell 35 cents [ about one percent ] to $ 38.68 a barrel during trading in New York .
The fall in prices followed a U.S. Energy Department report showing crude oil supplies in the U.S. rose last week by 549,000 barrels , or about two-tenths of one percent .
The African Union has extended the mandate for its Darfur peacekeeping mission until the end of the year as it waits to assemble a combined force with the United Nations .
The African Union said in a statement Friday that it hopes efforts to deploy the hybrid force will be speeded up .
Sudan agreed this month to the joint African Union - United Nations force of around 20,000 peacekeepers after months of international pressure and threats of tougher U.N. sanctions .
The African Union already has about 7,000 peacekeepers in Darfur , but they have not been able to stop the region 's violence .
Sudanese government-backed Arab militias are accused of committing atrocities in battling Darfur rebels .
Four years of fighting in Darfur has left more than 200,000 people dead and more than two million displaced .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas Thursday banned men from working in hair salons or beauty parlors that cater to women , part of a campaign to enforce a stricter interpretation of Muslim law .
Hamas officials said any man who continues to cut women 's hair will be arrested and tried in court .
Islamic extremists in Gaza have been waging a campaign against cafes and shops that sell or play music deemed unsuitable , as well as against Christian institutions .
They have called on Hamas to impose a more fundamentalist brand of Islam .
One hairdresser who is impacted by the ban - Barakat al-Ghoul - told the Associated Press he fears he will no longer be able to make a living .
Al-Ghoul said he had been cutting women 's hair for 26 years .
He insisted he did not violate Islamic law because he only cuts hair and does not do makeup .
Eight cross-country skiers - including a former gold medalist - have been suspended for having high red blood cell counts at the Turin Olympics .
The eight were suspended for health reasons and not for doping .
They include 2002 gold medalist Evi Sachenbacher of Germany .
A high red blood cell count can occur naturally , but can also result from taking endurance-boosting drugs such as EPO .
Two Americans - Kikkan Randall and Leif Zimmermann - are among the eight .
The International Ski Federation says the suspensions are not punishments , but to protect the athletes ' health .
The U.S. Ski Federation says the suspensions are retroactive to Wednesday when the tests were conducted .
The only cross-country events that fall within the five-day suspension are the men 's and women 's pursuit races Sunday .
A U.S. commission has voted to shut down five Army bases , as part of the Pentagon 's plan to restructure hundreds of domestic military installations .
The independent Base Closure and Realignment Commission Wednesday approved the closure of facilities in Georgia , New Jersey and Virginia as commissioners began their final deliberations .
Fort McPherson in Georgia was one of the approved closures .
In May , the Pentagon recommended the closure of military installations from Maine to Hawaii .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the plan would save $ 49 billion over 20 years and make it easier to deploy forces quickly .
President Bush must certify a final list of base closures recommended by the commission and submit the list to Congress for approval .
The Slovene lands were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the latter 's dissolution at the end of World War I .
In 1918 , the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in forming a new multinational state , which was named Yugoslavia in 1929 .
After World War II , Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia , which though Communist , distanced itself from Moscow 's rule .
Dissatisfied with the exercise of power by the majority Serbs , the Slovenes succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991 after a short 10-day war .
Historical ties to Western Europe , a strong economy , and a stable democracy have assisted in Slovenia 's transformation to a modern state .
Slovenia acceded to both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 ; it joined the eurozone in 2007 .
Security officials in Afghanistan say a roadside bomb has ripped through a taxi outside the capital , killing at least one civilian and wounding four others .
Tuesday 's explosion occurred on a major road in eastern Kabul .
It is not clear who planted the bomb .
Separately , the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan said one of its soldiers was killed Monday in a fight with militants in Pech district of Kunar province .
The soldier 's nationality was not released .
The coalition also reports seven militants were killed in Paktika province Monday in clashes with U.S.-led troops , one of whom was slightly wounded .
A statement published in Pakistan , meanwhile , reports the death last week of Younus Khalis , leader of a pro-Taleban faction in Afghanistan who had been in hiding since 2003 , when he declared a holy war against foreign forces in Afghanistan .
Ivorian officials say 11 people in a major cocoa-growing region have been killed in an attack believed to have been triggered by a land dispute .
Officials say the incident happened Thursday when the assailants attacked their victims in the village of Siegouekou .
A senior presidential source tells the Reuters news agency that the assailants smashed down doors with guns and knives , cut the throats of some people and fired at point blank range on others .
Clashes involving rival ethnic groups over precious cocoa land are common in the area .
Ivory Coast is the world 's leading producer of cocoa , the key ingredient in chocolate .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard says a hasty pullout of foreign troops from Iraq would represent a defeat for the West .
In an interview on Australian television , Mr. Howard says such a defeat would undermine Australia 's security and the authority of the United States as a world superpower .
He says anyone who believes withdrawing from Iraq will strengthen the West " has taken leave of their senses " .
Australia has about 1,300 troops in Iraq as part of the U.S.-led coalition .
Mr. Howard warned against pulling Australian troops out while other coalition forces remain .
He says doing so would cause long-term damage to Australia 's alliance with the U.S. Mr. Howard reiterated his support for the U.S. position that foreign forces should only leave Iraq when the Iraqis can look after security themselves .
Resistance by native Caribs prevented colonization on Saint Vincent until 1719 .
Disputed between France and the United Kingdom for most of the 18th century , the island was ceded to the latter in 1783 .
Between 1960 and 1962 , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was a separate administrative unit of the Federation of the West Indies .
Autonomy was granted in 1969 and independence in 1979 .
Iran 's chief nuclear negotiator says Tehran has only agreed to a temporary freeze of some nuclear activities , and will never completely give up the right to produce nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes .
Hassan Rohani told reporters Tuesday in Tehran that Iran will only suspend uranium enrichment for the length of international negotiations on the country 's nuclear program , which he says should take months , not years .
A U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Monday the world must " remain vigilant " about Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
He said if Iran fails to uphold the terms of Monday 's European-brokered resolution , the International Atomic Energy Agency should immediately refer Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for the possible imposition of sanctions .
Washington has accused Tehran of violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty with a secret nuclear weapons development program .
Iran has repeatedly denied the charges .
Venezuelan and Chinese officials have signed agreements on oil , agriculture and technology during meetings in Caracas Saturday .
Chinese Vice President Zeng Qinghong and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez signed 17 bilateral agreements and also discussed cooperation in mining , oil and gas projects , as well as technological partnership .
Last month , Mr. Chavez visited China , where he signed agreements with Chinese President Hu Jintao dealing with economic cooperation and joint oil field exploration .
Venezuela is the world 's fifth-largest oil exporter .
China , which faces a significant energy shortfall , is looking to strengthen energy cooperation with oil-exporting countries .
Venezuela is the third stop in Mr. Zeng 's five-nation tour of Latin America and the Caribbean .
He plans to leave Venezuela Sunday for visits to Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica .
A U.S. federal inspector says more than 96-million dollars earmarked for projects to rebuild Iraq can not be accounted for .
The report by Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction Stuart Bowen has prompted a criminal investigation into the missing money .
Mr. Bowen 's report , released Thursday , describes how tens of millions of dollars were dispersed for Iraq construction projects with little or no documentation during 2003 and 2004 .
The report says that while incompetence or haste may account for some problems , there are indications of fraud .
The inspector general notes the money in question was not U.S. taxpayer dollars but rather Iraqi money designated for reconstruction projects .
U.S. officials responding to the report have attributed the accounting problems to the difficulties of working in a war-time environment .
Electricity consumption is on the rise across Europe , but high oil prices and a reluctance in some countries to ' go nuclear ' is creating an energy gap .
So some power companies are switching back to ' coal ' - but this time , proponents say coal is cleaning up its act .
A new generation of ' clean coal ' power stations is due to open across the continent during the next five years .
But one of the first to come on line has been met with stiff opposition in the United Kingdom .
Paul Burge reports for VOA from London .
Two British lawmakers have called for an inquiry into claims that a British-based security firm operating in Iraq withheld intelligence from British troops .
The Guardian newspaper says the lawmakers want the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to investigate whether the firm ArmorGroup directed an employee to withhold information from British forces .
The probe demand follows a Guardian report that a former British policeman working in 2004 and 2005 for the security firm in southern Iraq was told not to share intelligence gained during visits to local Iraqi police stations .
The report says ArmorGroup has " vigorously " denied the claims .
English football star David Beckham has arrived at the training ground of Premier League team Tottenham Hotspur in preparation of his month-long training stint with the club .
The 35-year-old Beckham arrived at the team 's facility east of London on Monday .
Tottenham had hoped to reach an agreement with Major League Soccer 's Los Angeles Galaxy to have Beckham for a two-month playing loan .
But talks broke down when the MLS club insisted that Beckham report with his Los Angeles teammates on February 10 to prepare for the 2011 season .
The Galaxy had been reluctant to allow Beckham to spend the offseason playing in Europe after he tore his Achilles ' tendon playing for Italy 's AC Milan last March and missed much of the MLS season .
However , Hotspurs manager Harry Redknapp is still hopeful the loan agreement can be worked out .
The U.S. military in Iraq says an insurgent , two women and a child have been killed in a clash between U.S. forces and militants north of Baghdad .
However , police and residents say 11 people were killed in the raid on a house near Balad , and the Associated Press says its photographs show 11 bodies wrapped in blankets arriving at a hospital in Tikrit .
U.S. officials could not immediately reconcile the discrepancy .
But a military spokesman said one al-Qaida suspect was killed and another was captured in the operation .
Elsewhere , police in Baghdad say two Shi'ite pilgrims were killed as they walked on a roadway toward Karbala for annual festivities marking a key religious celebration that ends Monday .
Separately , police in Baquba say at least four people died in two bombings .
In one incident , police say a suicide bomber on a bicycle missed a police patrol and killed two civilians .
Amnesty International says sexual violence against women in Haiti is increasing one year after a deadly earthquake forced hundreds of thousands of people into makeshift shelters with little or no security .
Amnesty said in a report Thursday the offenses are primarily committed by armed men roaming tent camps at night .
The rights group says more than 250 rapes occurred in camps in the first 150 days after last January 's earthquake .
Amnesty is urging the newly elected government to include the topic of sexual violence in its plan to address the humanitarian crisis .
The group says women should have input in developing an action plan .
The rights group says immediate assistance should include security in the camps and help for police investigating cases .
Israel has allowed the first commercial shipment of shoes and clothing into the Gaza Strip in almost two years .
Smaller shipments have been allowed to enter Gaza through international aid groups , but Sunday 's shipments are the first to reach private traders .
Smugglers have skirted the blockade by bringing in goods though a tunnel under the Egypt-Gaza border .
British-based human rights group Amnesty International called for an end to the blockade in January , saying it is " suffocating " Gaza 's 1.4 million residents .
An Israeli military offensive into Gaza in December 2008 to stop cross-border rocket attacks by Hamas militants killed at least 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis .
A top U.S. intelligence officer in Baghdad has reportedly warned that Iraq 's security situation is likely to get worse in the coming months .
The report from the New York Times newspaper cites government officials who say they have seen a cable the officer sent to superiors at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) last month .
The officer warned of more violence and sectarian clashes unless the Iraqi government can assert its authority and rebuild the economy .
The newspaper says the officer had just finished a year-long tour as the CIA 's station chief in Baghdad .
The Bush administration and the military continue to present a more optimistic view of Iraqi security .
Monday , the Defense Department said the recent offensive in Fallujah had " scattered the enemy , " and said the Iraqi security forces continue to expand .
Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli aircraft has fired rockets at a car traveling in the southern Gaza Strip , killing a senior Palestinian militant and wounding at least 10 other people .
Palestinian medics say three of the wounded are in critical condition .
An Israeli army statement said aircraft had targeted a senior militant accused of involvement in sniper fire and other attacks against Israeli troops .
Israel repeatedly warned earlier this week that it would launch strikes against Palestinian targets to avenge a suicide bombing Monday inside Israel .
The Palestinian militant Islamic Jihad organization claimed responsibility for Monday 's blast , which killed five Israelis in Netanya .
Earlier this week , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz ordered the army to resume its practice of targeting senior militants for assassination .
Protesters attempt to block A9 motorway near Gleneagles , Scotland Police and protesters have clashed in Scotland , as leaders of the world 's leading industrial nations gather for the Group of Eight summit at the Gleneagles resort .
Scottish officials Wednesday said about 60 people have been arrested and eight officers injured after hooded protesters smashed windows and hurled rocks and other objects at officers in the town of Stirling .
They say demonstrators have blocked roads leading to Gleneagles , as well as access to a nearby railway station .
Meanwhile , Scottish police now say they will allow protesters to march to the edge of the G-8 summit site .
Earlier in the day , they canceled the planned demonstration following outbreaks of violence in cities surrounding the resort .
More than 10,000 police have been deployed in the area around Gleneagles .
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner has urged China to use its influence with Burma 's military government to help end the political and social turmoil in the Southeast Asian country .
Speaking with the French press agency ( AFP ) Wednesday in Thailand ahead of a visit to Beijing , Kouchner said China is pivotal to strengthening United Nations efforts to bring about reform in Burma .
He said China must push the military junta in Rangoon to open real dialogue with the democratic opposition .
China -- a major supplier of weapons to Burma -- has been criticized by some diplomats for not taking a tougher stand toward Burma 's military leaders after the September crackdown on pro-democracy protests .
Kouchner said it was largely due to Beijing 's influence that U.N. envoy Ibrahim Gambari was able to travel to Burma at the end of last month .
South Africa 's government says it will move away from coal and promote use of wind and nuclear energy in an effort to fight global warming .
Environment Minister Marthinus van Schalkwyk told a news conference Monday that options being considered include mandatory energy efficiency targets and a possible tax on carbon dioxide emissions .
South Africa generates most of its electricity using coal , a major source of the so-called greenhouse gases blamed for climate change .
Van Schalkwyk said no new coal-fired power stations would be approved unless they use technology that captures and stores carbon emissions .
He said if action is taken now , South Africa 's greenhouse gas emissions should stabilize by 2025 and then begin to decline .
He said the Cabinet 's decisions show the government and the country are committed to a " low carbon economy . "
Oil prices went as high as $ 103.05 a barrel in Friday 's trading - the highest price ever recorded - before easing slightly .
It is the latest in a string of record-highs set in recent days as a weakening U.S. dollar and the threat of inflation makes tangible assets like oil and other commodities more attractive to investors .
Speculators interpreted recent comments by the head of the U.S. central bank Ben Bernanke as pointing to further interest rate cuts .
Interest rate reductions are intended to boost U.S. economic growth , but can also further weaken the dollar .
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are scheduled to consider oil supply and price policies at a meeting on March 5 .
The nations making up the OPEC cartel pump about 40 percent of the world 's oil .
A statistician is someone who is good with numbers but lacks the personality to be an accountant
Russian police confirm that a shrapnel-packed bomb exploded Sunday in a McDonald 's restaurant in St. Petersburg , injuring six people .
The blast shattered windows and caused the ceiling to collapse .
None of the injuries was serious .
Investigators say the bomb was left under a table at the fast food restaurant along Nevsky Prospekt , St. Petersburg 's main street .
Authorities have not said if the attack was terrorist-related .
A car bombing of a Moscow McDonald 's by Muslim extremists in 2002 killed one person and wounded seven .
Nepal 's parliament has unanimously approved a resolution to curtail King Gyanendra 's powers .
Details of the declaration have not yet been released , but the resolution is expected to remove the king 's command over the 90,000 member army , as well as his right to make decisions on major issues .
Those powers are to be given to parliament .
Earlier Thursday , Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala told parliament members that the proclamation represents the feelings of all people in Nepal .
Curtailing the king 's powers was a key demand during last month 's pro-democracy protests , which forced King Gyanendra to give up total control of the government and reinstate parliament .
Nepal 's interim cabinet banned rallies today near the parliament and other key government buildings in Kathmandu .
Two days ago , there were demonstrations against the delay in curbing the king 's powers .
Tourism , petroleum refining , and offshore finance are the mainstays of this small economy , which is closely tied to the outside world .
Although GDP grew slightly during the past decade , the island enjoys a high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure compared with other countries in the region .
Curacao has an excellent natural harbor that can accommodate large oil tankers .
The Venezuelan state oil company leases the single refinery on the island from the government ; most of the oil for the refinery is imported from Venezuela ; most of the refined products are exported to the US .
Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported , with the US , Brazil , Italy , and Mexico being the major suppliers .
The government is attempting to diversify its industry and trade and has signed an Association Agreement with the EU to expand business there .
Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the development of agriculture .
Budgetary problems complicate reform of the health and pension systems for an aging population .
Mexican police say gunmen shot 13 recovering drug addicts inside a rehabilitation center , killing at least 10 of them .
Witnesses say the armed men burst into the center , lined up the clients and opened fire on them .
The attack took place Sunday in the city of Tijuana , near the U.S. border .
Police did not immediately identify a motive .
But authorities suspect the killings may be linked to drug gangs .
Mexican security forces have been engaged in a brutal struggle against the country 's violent drug cartels since President Felipe Calderon took office in 2006 .
Nearly 30,000 people have been killed since the campaign began .
Last week , Mexican security forces seized 105 tons of marijuana in Tijuana , the largest Mexican drug bust in recent years .
Former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell has criticized the Hurricane Katrina relief effort .
In a taped ABC television interview to air late Friday , Mr. Powell expressed his opinion that " there have been a lot of failures at a lot of levels - [ of ] local , state and federal [ government ] . "
The former top U.S. diplomat said " there was more than enough warning over time about the dangers to New Orleans , " but not enough was done .
Mr. Powell , who was the highest ranking black official during President Bush 's first term , says he does not believe race was a factor in the slow response to the hurricane .
Mr. Powell says many of those unable to evacuate New Orleans before Katrina struck were trapped by poverty , which disproportionately affects blacks .
The use of the name Montenegro began in the 15th century when the Crnojevic dynasty began to rule the Serbian principality of Zeta ; over subsequent centuries Montenegro was able to maintain its independence from the Ottoman Empire .
From the 16th to 19th centuries , Montenegro became a theocracy ruled by a series of bishop princes ; in 1852 , it was transformed into a secular principality .
After World War I , Montenegro was absorbed by the Kingdom of Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , which became the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929 ; at the conclusion of World War II , it became a constituent republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia .
When the latter dissolved in 1992 , Montenegro federated with Serbia , first as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and , after 2003 , in a looser union of Serbia and Montenegro .
In May 2006 , Montenegro invoked its right under the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro to hold a referendum on independence from the state union .
The vote for severing ties with Serbia exceeded 55 % - the threshold set by the EU - allowing Montenegro to formally declare its independence on 3 June 2006 .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud visited the home of slain former prime minister Rafik Hariri Friday , to express his condolences to the late politician 's family .
Mr. Lahoud made no public comments after the visit .
Mr. Lahoud and Cabinet members were told by Hariri 's family not to attend Wednesday 's funeral in Beirut , which attracted more than 200,000 mourners .
The Hariri family and Lebanese opposition politicians accuse Syria , the main power broker in Lebanon , of involvement in Monday 's car bomb attack that killed Mr. Hariri .
Damascus has denied any role in the assassination .
Meanwhile , Lebanese officials say they are searching for several men who flew from Beirut to Australia shortly after the attack .
The French News Agency quotes Lebanon 's Justice Minister as saying traces of explosives were found on their aircraft 's seats .
An influential Sunni Arab politician says U.S. forces stormed his Baghdad home early Thursday , arresting four of his bodyguards .
Adnan al-Dulaimi told reporters he was shocked by the raid .
He said he is a voice for national reconciliation and against sectarianism .
A U.S. military spokesman in Baghdad told VOA he could not confirm whether U.S. forces raided Mr. al-Dulaimi 's home .
Mr. al-Dulaimi heads the Conference for Iraq 's People , a leading political organization representing Iraq 's minority Sunni Arabs .
That group is urging Sunni Arabs to vote against the new constitution in next month 's national referendum .
It says if the document is approved , Sunni Arabs may be marginalized if Iraq is divided into Shi'ite , Kurdish and Sunni Arab regions .
Pakistani military authorities say they have arrested a key Taliban commander who is accused of slaughtering military personnel .
Security forces said Wednesday they captured Taliban commander Sher Mohammad Qasab in the Swat Valley .
Qasab is known for his brutality among locals in the valley .
A military spokesman said Qasab was wounded and three of his sons died during an exchange of fire before his arrest .
Pakistani forces have arrested key Taliban commanders recently in the valley , including Muslim Khan , the central spokesman for the militants .
Authorities say the arrests have weakened the Taliban and are helping security forces conduct successful raids against other militants in the area .
Republican presidential candidate John McCain has accused former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld of mismanaging the war in Iraq .
At a campaign stop Monday in South Carolina , McCain , a supporter of the war in Iraq , said Rumsfeld will be remembered as one of the worst defense secretaries in history .
McCain said the United States has paid a heavy price for the mismanagement of the war .
McCain is a member of President Bush 's Republican party .
He is seeking the party 's nomination to run for president in 2008 .
At Rumsfeld 's farewell ceremony in December , President Bush praised Rumsfeld 's strategic vision , deep devotion to the military , and love for the United States .
At the same event , Vice President Dick Cheney said Rumsfeld was the finest defense secretary the nation ever had .
An election official in Haiti says the country may have to postpone elections scheduled for November .
Patrick Fequiere says authorities need more time to prepare ballots , distribute voter identification cards and set up polling places .
The election council member 's comments come three days after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged Haitian officials to speed up preparations for the November 20 vote .
The nine-member council has approved about 30 presidential candidates for the first round of balloting .
The country will also hold legislative elections .
The vote will be Haiti 's first since former president Jean-Betrand Aristide fled the country during a 2004 uprising .
About 7,000 U.N. peacekeepers have been deployed to calm widespread violence in Haiti .
The head of Cuba 's parliament has offered to support Iran in its fight to develop nuclear energy within Iranian borders .
Ricardo Alarcon voiced solidarity Thursday in a meeting with the visiting speaker of Iran 's parliament , Gholam Ali Haddad Adel .
Iran resumed enrichment of uranium for nuclear fuel earlier this week , despite international pressure against the move .
Haddad Adel is on a two-day visit to Cuba after spending Wednesday in Venezuela , where he thanked the government for its support on nuclear issues .
Meanwhile , Indiana Representative Dan Burton , in an interview with Voice of America Thursday , expressed concern over the close ties between Iran and the two countries .
He said if it appears that there is coordination between terrorist states and leftist organizations in Central America , the United States will intervene .
Representative Burton said such a relationship would endanger the United States and other countries in the hemisphere .
Israel and Western nations are expressing concern over Hamas ' apparent victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections and warning they will not deal with the militant group unless it abandons violence .
Israel 's acting prime minister , Ehud Olmert , is discussing the development with senior cabinet officials .
He has said Israel will not work with a Hamas-led government .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says any group that participates in a democratic process should disarm .
Britain also called on Hamas to reject violence and acknowledge Israel 's right to exist .
Other European countries , including France , have expressed concern over Hamas ' apparent election victory .
And a spokesman for Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called to stress that the Bush administration will continue to support Mr. Abbas and his policies .
Reports from Sudan say dozens of people were killed when a plane veered off a runway at Khartoum 's airport and burst into flames .
About 200 passengers were thought to be aboard the Sudan Airways plane when it landed in bad weather late Tuesday .
There are conflicting reports about the number of fatalities , but state-run television in Sudan says about 100 people died in the accident .
Emergency services rushed to the scene and by late Tuesday had brought the fire under control .
The flight originated in Damascus , Syria , and made a stopover in Amman , Jordan , before flying to Khartoum .
Sudan has a poor aviation record .
In May , a plane crashed in a remote area of southern Sudan , killing 23 people , including key members of the southern Sudanese government .
In July 2003 , a Sudan Airways plane crashed soon after takeoff near Port Sudan , killing 115 people .
Philippine officials , fearing the spread of disease , are urging people to quickly bury hundreds of victims killed in two storms this week .
The military says at least 1,000 people are dead or missing from floods and mudslides caused by the typhoons , which hit provinces in the northeast of the country .
Officials are assessing the damage from the latest and most powerful storm , Typhoon Nanmadol , which slammed into the coast Thursday packing sustained winds of 185 kilometers per hour .
Nanmadol is the fourth storm to hit the Philippines in less than two weeks .
In a televised statement Friday President Gloria Arroyo said , " We need one great heave to deliver the relief supplies , find the missing , rescue the isolated , feed the hungry and shelter the homeless . "
Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon independence from the UK in 1966 .
The Basuto National Party ruled for the first two decades .
King MOSHOESHOE was exiled in 1990 , but returned to Lesotho in 1992 and was reinstated in 1995 and subsequently succeeded by his son , King LETSIE III , in 1996 .
Constitutional government was restored in 1993 after seven years of military rule .
In 1998 , violent protests and a military mutiny following a contentious election prompted a brief but bloody intervention by South African and Botswana military forces under the aegis of the Southern African Development Community .
Subsequent constitutional reforms restored relative political stability .
Peaceful parliamentary elections were held in 2002 , but the National Assembly elections of February 2007 were hotly contested and aggrieved parties continue to dispute how the electoral law was applied to award proportional seats in the Assembly .
Australia 's foreign minister has met with the Solomon Islands ' newly elected prime minister , Snyder Rini , following violent protests on the island nation this week that were sparked by his appointment .
Speaking Saturday in the capital , Honiara , visiting Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he told Mr. Rini that economic reform is going to be central to the survival of the country .
Downer said he also addressed corruption issues with Mr. Rini .
Riots erupted Tuesday in Honiara after Mr. Rini was appointed prime minister .
Opponents accuse him of being under the influence of ethnic-Chinese businessmen .
Mr. Rini denies the allegations and has refused demands that he resign .
Honiara is reported to be quiet Saturday , with Australian troops patrolling the streets .
Friday , Australia said it will send 110 additional troops to the Solomon Islands .
A leading international human rights group says it is " deeply concerned " for the safety of Iranian Nobel Laureate Shirin Ebadi , who has refused an order to appear before Iran 's hard-line Revolutionary Court .
Human Rights Watch called the court summons a " blatant attempt " by Iran 's government to " silence one of the few remaining voices of human rights " in the Islamic Republic .
In Tehran Sunday , a Foreign Ministry spokesman said the human rights lawyer was the subject of a private complaint .
However , Ms. Ebadi , in comments to Reuters news agency , cast doubt on the use of the Revolutionary Court for such complaints , noting that the tribunal handles national security matters .
Saturday , Ms. Ebadi said she would not honor the court summons , because it failed to state the charges against her .
Failure to appear could land her in prison .
A U.N. official in Afghanistan says the H5N1 strain of bird flu has been found in a fourth Afghan province , and says that indicates the virus is slowly spreading around the country .
The spokesman for the U.N. 's Food and Agriculture Organization , Assadullah Azhari , says laboratory tests in Italy detected the virus in samples from dead chickens found in Kapisa province , northeast of the capital , Kabul .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has already been found in the capital , Kabul , and the eastern provinces of Logar and Nangarhar .
The U.N. official says there are strong suspicions the virus has reached two other provinces , Laghman and Parwan , but says further testing is needed .
The official says the FAO is supporting efforts by Afghan authorities to strengthen nationwide surveillance of suspected bird flu outbreaks .
No human cases of bird flu have been reported in Afghanistan .
Indonesian police say they have arrested a suspected Islamist militant alleged to be a top aide to Malaysian extremist Noordin Mohammad Top .
Local media say anti-terror security forces captured Subur Sugiarto on a bus in Central Java on Wednesday .
Several police sources said Subur Sugiarto was part of Top 's inner circle of accomplices .
Top is a senior member of Jemaah Islamiah , an Islamist militant group seen as the Southeast Asian arm of al-Qaida .
He is blamed for helping mastermind a string of bombings in recent years in Indonesia , including the 2002 Bali nightclub attacks that killed 202 people .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has expressed hope to leaders at the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) summit that talks with his Indian counterpart could ease Kashmir border tensions .
General Musharraf and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh are expected to meet Saturday on the sidelines of the summit in Havana , Cuba .
Unlike Pakistan 's president , Mr. Singh did not speak directly about the Kashmir issue during his speech at the summit Friday .
However , he urged N.A.M. leaders to renew their group 's efforts against terrorism .
Both India and Pakistan claim ownership of Kashmir .
The countries agreed on a ceasefire in 2003 .
Kashmir is suffering from a 17-year insurgency that has killed more than 45,000 people .
A number of rebel groups are fighting for independence from India or a merger with Muslim-majority Pakistan .
Suspected Islamist militants in Pakistan have bombed the mausoleum of a 17th century poet revered in both Pakistan and Afghanistan .
People regularly visit the marble shrine on the outskirts of the northwestern city of Peshawar to pay respects to Rehman Baba , a renowned ethnic Pashtun poet .
The blast damaged the structure of the shrine but there were no reports of injuries .
Days ahead of the attack , hardline Islamic militants had warned women against visiting the shrine .
Muslim extremists such as the Taliban oppose men and women mingling together unless they are married or close relatives .
In another attack Thursday , one person died and at least 15 others were injured when a grenade was hurled during evening prayers at a mosque in the northwestern town of Dera Ismail Khan .
Militant attacks have plagued Pakistan in recent years , especially in the Pashtun-dominated northwest .
Egyptian officials say the death toll in a rockslide near Cairo has climbed to at least 47 , with hundreds more people believed to be buried under massive boulders .
Authorities say the giant rocks rolled onto a shantytown at the foot of the Muqattam hills on Saturday , flattening many houses and burying entire families .
Security officials say hope is fading that any more survivors will be found .
Rescuers continued to work largely by hand to remove debris after authorities failed to bring in heavy equipment .
Authorities say the slum 's roadways were built without government authorization and are too narrow for the large machinery .
Residents expressed anger at the government 's handling of the disaster .
Officials say rockslides are frequent in the area .
The European Union has launched a new radio service into Belarus , where the opposition hopes to topple hardline President Alexander Lukashenko in an upcoming election .
The new service is staffed by Belarusian and Polish broadcasters .
It beams news and music by shortwave from just across the Belarusian border in Vilnius , Lithuania .
The broadcasts include a daily hour-long series called " Window to Europe , " and a series of election specials .
EU officials say the new radio station is not propaganda .
But they say tight government controls on the media make it hard for Belarusians to find independent sources of information .
President Lukashenko is hoping to win a third term in the March 19 election .
He accuses the West of interfering in Belarusian affairs .
The United States has called Mr. Lukashenko Europe 's last dictator because of his suppression of human rights and free speech .
Associates of one of Tibet 's richest businessmen say Dorje Tashi has been sentenced to life in prison on charges of helping Tibetan exile groups .
People close to the prominent hotel owner 's family told VOA 's Tibetan service the sentence was delivered on June 26 but has not been made public by the Chinese government .
The sentence is also reported by the Tibetan Center for Human Rights and Democracy .
The Associated Press quoted that India-based group saying Dorje Tashi , owner of the famed Yak Hotel , was accused of " funding some outside Tibetan groups . "
No further details of the charges were available .
China has cracked down on dissent in Tibet since riots in 2008 left at least 22 people dead .
But observers were surprised at the harshness of the sentence given to Dorje Tashi , who is reported to have joined the Communist Party and worked closely with authorities .
Former world number one tennis star Martina Hingis has made a successful return to professional tennis , winning her first-round match at the Australian hardcourt championship on the Gold Coast .
The 25-year old Swiss player beat Maria Vento-Kabchi of Venezuela in straight sets , 6-2 , 6-1 .
It was Hingis ' first competitive match in more than three years .
She retired in October 2002 , after suffering chronic foot and ankle injuries .
The five-time Grand Slam singles champion made a tense start against Vento-Kabchi , ranked 62nd in the world .
Hingis dropped her serve in the opening game , but quickly broke back , and dominated the rest of the match .
She will face Klara Koukalova of the Czech Republic in the second round .
Hingis is using the event as a warm-up for this month 's Australian Open , which she has won three times .
Thousands of Iraqi police and troops are on high alert in the Shi'ite holy city of Karbala as hundreds of thousands of pilgrims gathered for a Shi'ite religious festival .
Officials closed the city to cars Friday to prevent car bomb attacks .
North of Karbala , two car bombers killed eight people , including seven police officers , on a road linking the city to Baghdad .
Celebrations begin Monday marking the birthday more than 11 centuries ago of a revered Shi'ite leader , Imam Mehdi .
Pilgrims are pouring in even though al-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi declared war on Shi'ites last week .
Further south , two Iraqis were killed in violence that erupted after Iraqi authorities detained two British soldiers in Basra .
In a separate development , one of Saddam Hussein 's nephews was sentenced to life in prison for bomb-making and funding the country 's insurgency .
The United Nations predicts fear of deadly avian flu will cause poultry consumption to drop by three million tons this year .
That is an almost four percent fall in worldwide demand for chickens and other birds .
The U.N. Food and Agricultural Organization says weakening demand will hurt poultry industries worldwide and hit poultry farmers in the developing world who eke out a poverty-level living .
Already , worries about the H5N1 flu have cut poultry consumption sharply in Europe , the Middle East , Africa and Asia .
Italian consumption has fallen 70 percent .
French farmers are angry that many countries have banned their poultry .
In India , weak demand cut poultry prices more than 10 percent .
The Food and Agriculture Organization says the decline is a sharp change from last year 's 10 percent gains .
Lithuania has handed over an alleged Belarusian spy to Polish authorities .
Warsaw accuses Sergei Monic of sending information vital to Polish national security to foreign intelligence services .
Lithuanian media say the information includes lists of employees at the Polish foreign ministry and other documents .
Monic was arrested in Vilnius in November on a Polish warrant .
He has denied the charges and claims he was set up by a Polish acquaintance .
He also says a treaty between Belarus and Lithuania should have prevented his extradition .
Ties between Poland and Belarus have been sour in recent years .
Belarus has a large ethnic Polish population .
Minsk has accused Polish institutions of fomenting rebellion , leading to a number of tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions .
Israel has released Palestinian Deputy Prime Minister Nasser Shaer , a top Hamas official , who was detained by the military more than a month ago .
A military judge ordered Shaer to be released citing a lack of evidence .
Israeli officials had never brought charges against the most senior Hamas official in Israeli custody .
The deputy prime minister later returned to his home in the West Bank city of Nablus where he was greeted by dozens of supporters .
Israeli forces seized Shaer at his home on August 19 as they rounded up dozens of Hamas officials after Palestinian militants captured an Israeli soldier in the Gaza Strip in June .
About 30 Hamas lawmakers and cabinet members are still in Israeli custody .
A top Russian official says a state-owned bank obtained $ 6 billion in loans from Chinese banks to help finance the takeover of the main oil production unit of the embattled Yukos energy company .
Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin says Vnesheconombank bank borrowed the money to help Rosneft - a state-owned oil firm - purchase Yuganskneftegaz .
The controversial sale culminated a long legal campaign waged by the Kremlin against Yukos and its billionaire owner , Mikhail Khodorkovsky .
Russian authorities auctioned off some of Yukos ' major assets to pay off a $ 28 billion bill for back taxes .
Analysts say the loan may help ensure China of badly needed oil to satisfy its ever-growing demand .
Palestinian hospital sources say two Palestinian men were killed by Israeli forces before dawn Saturday in Gaza .
The Palestinian medical workers say the two men are brothers , both in their forties , who approached the security barrier separating Israel from Gaza .
The brothers were said to be trying to cross into Israel to find work .
The Israeli army confirmed that troops shot two men near the barrier overnight .
The U.S. military Friday released the details of five incidents in which guards mishandled the Koran at the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
An investigation by the base commander , Brigadier General Jay Hood , said the incidents included a prison guard splashing a Koran inadvertently with urine , an interrogator stepping on the holy book , and an obscenity written on the inside cover of a Koran .
The U.S. military noted that more than 1,600 Korans have been given to detainees , and guards are told to avoid touching the holy books if possible .
General Hood says the investigation found that mishandling the Koran was rare , and never condoned .
The military said again Friday that there is no evidence that U.S. guards or interrogators ever flushed a Koran down the toilet , as Newsweek reported in a story that the magazine has since retracted .
The report sparked ant-American protests in several Islamic countries .
President Bush 's national security team is meeting in Texas to discuss a new strategy in Iraq .
A White House spokesman , Scott Stanzel , called the gathering Thursday at the president 's ranch in Crawford , Texas , an opportunity for Mr. Bush to review options .
Vice President Dick Cheney , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , Defense Secretary Robert Gates , national security adviser Stephen Hadley and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Marine General Peter Pace were all present at the meeting .
The Bush administration has been debating strategies for reducing the violence in Iraq and whether to send more troops .
Mr. Bush is expected to announce a new plan next month .
On Wednesday , the Pentagon said it is sending about 3,500 troops to Kuwait to serve as a standby force for use in Iraq or elsewhere in the region .
The U.S. Space Agency NASA is planning to launch its space shuttle Atlantis in Cape Canaveral , Florida on Wednesday .
A NASA spokesman said the weather forecast is very favorable for the launch , set for 12:29 pm local time - a time of day before Florida 's frequent afternoon thunderstorms .
Atlantis was originally scheduled to launch August 27 on a mission to resume construction of the International Space Station .
But that launch was delayed after a lightning strike at the launch pad .
If the National Air and Space Administration is not able to launch Atlantis this week , the mission to the International Space Station likely will be postponed until October .
NASA 's plans call for an 11-day mission to the space station , where astronauts will conduct three spacewalks to attach solar panels .
The panels eventually will generate one quarter of the station 's energy .
Georgia is observing two days of mourning following Thursday 's death of Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania .
Authorities found the body of the 41-year-old Mr. Zhvania along with that of a friend and fellow politician , Zurab Usupov in the friend 's Tbilisi apartment .
Officials Friday confirmed that the two men had died of carbon monixide poisoning blamed on a faulty heater .
Mr. Zhvzania 's funeral is scheduled for Sunday at Tbilisi 's cathedral .
The late prime minister was prominent in the " Rose Revolution " that toppled President Eduard Shevardnadze in 2003 .
Meanwhile , Georgian officials say a member of the country 's Presidential Commission on Clemency apparently has committed suicide .
Police say they found Giorgi Khelasvili at his home dead of a gunshot wound .
News agency reports say the victim suffered from depression .
Authorities are making no connection between the suicide and the prime minister 's death .
Relatives of people wounded in the riots in the eastern Uzbekistan town of Andijan , crowd against the gates of the city hospital Uzbekistan 's government has taken a group of foreign diplomats and journalists on a tour of Andijan , the site of deadly clashes between security forces and anti-government demonstrators last week .
Government officials accompanied the foreigners , who were not allowed to roam freely , and introduced them to residents who backed the official version of events .
Uzbekistan 's government maintains that rebels - not security forces - fired on demonstrators , killing 169 people , including 32 government troops , but an opposition group says it has compiled a list of 745 dead .
In Geneva Wednesday , the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour called for an independent probe into the events in Andijan .
Many countries , including the United States , have expressed concern at the heavy-handed crackdown against protesters .
The World Health Organization is warning that one million people throughout East Asia and the Pacific contract tuberculosis each year but fail to get treatment .
The United Nations agency also says it estimates half of all the new cases in the region go undetected .
The WHO says tuberculosis kills four people worldwide every minute and in Asia , 1,000 people daily - accounting for more deaths than any other infectious disease , including AIDS .
The agency says the main causes for the spread of tuberculosis are poor awareness among the public , limited access to health care , and low quality laboratory services .
Thursday has been declared " World Stop TB Day . "
Colombia 's largest Marxist rebel group has ruled out a prisoner exchange with the government as long as Alvaro Uribe is president .
In a statement on its website , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia accused President Uribe of lacking the political will to resolve the situation and instead has focused on the military aspect of the war .
The Colombian government has previously offered to meet with FARC rebels to discuss a possible prisoner swap .
The rebel group is holding scores of hostages , including a presidential candidate and three American contractors .
Meanwhile , police in the southern Putumayo region accuse FARC rebels of blowing up oil wells and an electricity tower near the Ecuadorian border over the last few days .
FARC has been at war with the Colombian government for more than four decades , in a conflict that has claimed tens of thousands of lives .
New York City 's largest film event , the Tribeca Film Festival , is screening 120 films this year in theaters around downtown Manhattan .
The 12-day festival [ which ran through May 4 ] was created to revive the economy in lower Manhattan after the September 11th , 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States , and to provide a showcase for films from abroad that might otherwise go unseen in the U.S.
VOA 's Carolyn Weaver reports .
An unmanned Russian spacecraft has docked successfully with the International Space Station delivering cargo and supplies for its crew .
A spokesman for Russian Mission Control Valery Lyndin says the Progress M-67 craft reached the docking module Wednesday .
He said the space station crew guided the freighter to the station 's docking port using manual controls .
The craft lifted off Friday from the Baikonur space center in Kazakhstan , carrying two-and-a-half tons of supplies including food , water , fuel and various equipment to the station .
The space station 's permanent crew doubled to six in May .
It now includes two Russians , two Americans , a Canadian and a Belgian .
Six Lebanese soldiers have been killed in firefights as troops shelled a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon , where Islamic militants have been holed up for nearly eight weeks .
The bombardment targeting Fatah al-Islam militants began early Thursday , after more of the few remaining refugees in the camp fled .
Reports say it is some of the heaviest shelling of the Nahr al-Bared camp since the standoff began .
The militants responded with gunfire , ambushing soldiers on the ground .
It is not clear if the shelling marks the start of a planned Lebanese army offensive against the militants .
A military source told reporters the operation is meant to increase pressure on the militants to surrender .
More than 170 people , including about 90 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter , saying , " We bear for no purpose the burden of life , as of all the trees that grow we are the most continually in peril of the axe . "
Jupiter made answer :
" You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to which you are exposed : for if you did not make such excellent pillars and posts , and prove yourselves so serviceable to the carpenters and the farmers , the axe would not so frequently be laid to your roots . "
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is to travel to Iran Friday as part of his two-week world tour .
Mr. Chavez is to meet with his Iranian counterpart , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , in Tehran .
The leaders are expected to sign several deals during the three-day visit .
Venezuela 's president is in Qatar , leading a delegation that includes Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez .
Mr. Chavez was previously in Moscow , where he met with Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Venezuela sealed a deal with Russia Thursday to buy Russian fighter jets and helicopters .
The head of Russia 's state arms export agency says the contracts are worth more than $ 3 billion .
The United States has banned arms sales to Venezuela because of the government 's alleged ties to Iran and Cuba .
China is warning that Taiwan is stirring new tension with its massive protest march against Beijing 's new anti-secession law .
Mainland newspapers ran a dispatch from the official Xinhua news agency Sunday , saying Taiwan 's independence forces are the biggest threat to peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait .
The commentary says the non-peaceful means mentioned in Beijing 's anti-secession law is targeted at secessionist forces , and not at Taiwan compatriots .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian and hundreds of thousands of protesters took to the streets of Taipei Saturday to oppose the law .
The United States , among other countries , is concerned Beijing may use the law to declare war on Taiwan , which China considers part of its territory .
Brazil has rejected a U.S. State Department human rights report accusing its police and prison guards of serious abuses .
Brazil 's Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that Brazil does not recognize reports by individual countries , because they tend to use their own domestic criteria .
It said Brazil is open to dialogue with all international and regional forums on human rights .
The 2006 U.S. State Department report released Tuesday said Brazil 's government generally respects its citizens ' human rights .
But the report said serious abuses , such as beatings and torture , were found among Brazil 's police and security forces .
It said in most cases abusers were not punished .
Australian police have searched two hospitals in Western Australia in connection with last week 's failed car-bomb attacks in London and Glasgow .
Federal police commissioner Mick Keelty said police seized computer files and other materials from hospitals in the state capital Perth and the gold mining town of Kalgoorlie Friday .
The raids came after an Indian doctor was arrested Monday in the eastern Australian city of Brisbane .
The 27-year old Mohamed Haneef is one of eight suspects who are all doctors or worked for Britain 's national health service .
He is the only one held outside Britain .
Australian police said their investigation into the British bomb plot has widened into a third state , New South Wales , where several foreign doctors are being questioned Friday .
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization says the number of hungry people in the world increased by about 50 million last year due to high food prices .
FAO Director-General Jacques Diouf , speaking in Brussels Thursday , said prices have risen as population growth increased demand .
He also said climate change , particularly droughts and floods , has hurt food production .
The FAO says global food production needs to double by 2050 in order to meet growing demand .
The group says production increases should take place mostly in developing countries , where more than 95 percent of the projected population increase will occur .
Diouf said increasing agricultural production in developing countries will require about $ 24 billion a year to be spent on water management , improving rural roads , and research .
Iraqi Kurdish leaders are meeting in Baghdad with majority Shi'ites , as both sides press for agreement on a new coalition government before parliament meets for the first time Wednesday .
Top Kurdish envoy Qubad Talabani says Kurdish negotiators want the majority Shi'ites to detail their religious and political agenda for northern Iraq before Kurds agree to form a ruling coalition .
Speaking Monday on U.S. television , Mr. Talabani said Kurds want guarantees of a secular government in post-war Iraq .
He also said negotiators seek guarantees that hundreds of thousands of Kurds driven from the oil city of Kirkuk under Saddam Hussein be allowed to return .
Earlier Monday , the envoy 's father , Kurdish leader Jalal Talabani , said Kurds also demand that thousands of Kurdish peshmerga fighters continue to provide security in Kurdish-dominated northern provinces .
Jalal Talabani is expected to become Iraq 's next president .
Burundi President Domitien Ndayizeye has signed a series of laws , creating a new national defense force that includes former rebel fighters .
A presidential spokesman , Pancrace Cimpaye , says since the New Year , the Burundi Armed Forces - as it was formerly called - no longer exists .
The new National Defense Force will have 30,000 troops - evenly split among the nation 's minority ethnic Tutsis and majority Hutus .
Twenty-thousand officers will make up the new National Police Force - also evenly divided between Tutsis and Hutus .
As part of a peace deal to end Burundi 's decade-long war , several former Hutu rebel groups have joined a transitional government designed to end years of dominance by minority Tutsis .
However , Burundi 's oldest Hutu rebel group , the National Liberation Forces , continues to fight the government .
A powerful rocket exploded late Wednesday in Afghanistan 's capital , Kabul , near an area where the U.S. embassy and NATO peacekeeping headquarters are located .
Reports from the scene say a security guard was wounded in the blast .
In Washington , a U.S. State Department spokesman says the rocket hit or landed close to the Afghan Communications Ministry .
The U.S. embassy and a base for NATO-led forces are nearby .
NATO troops have sealed off the area .
U.S. officials say all U.S. embassy personnel are safe and accounted for .
A U.S. embassy spokesman told the Associated Press he could not confirm whether the diplomatic mission was the target of the blast .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Poland has defeated host Portugal at a men 's volleyball tournament to qualify for the Beijing Olympic tournament .
The 2006 second-place winner in the World Championships earned its place Sunday with a 25-21 , 25-19 , 26-24 victory that secured first place in the four-team event in Espinho .
Poland advances to the Summer Games for the third time in four editions .
The loss denied Portugal its first ever chance to compete at the Olympics .
Poland joins China , Brazil , Russia , Bulgaria , Egypt , Serbia , the United States , Venezuela and Germany at the Olympics .
Also Sunday , Puerto Rico beat Indonesia , 25-21 , 25-21 , 25-22 , to place third .
But only the winner of the tournament qualified for the games in August .
The final two teams will emerge from the last qualifier under way in Japan .
Nigeria 's government has taken steps to avoid a confrontation with football 's world governing body ( FIFA ) , by cancelling its recent appointment to the country 's Football Association .
At a news conference Thursday , Nigerian sports minister Musa Mohammed said the government withdrew Segun Odegbami 's appointment as secretary-general of the Nigeria Football Association .
The appointment of Salihu Abubakar as head of the Nigerian Premier League was also cancelled .
In addition , the government also accepted the resignation of former NFA secretary-general Taiwo Ogunjobi .
No successor has been named .
The NFA board , not the government , is now expected to name his replacement .
The announcements by the government are expected to prevent sanctions from FIFA , which forbids government interference in member football associations .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least 13 people in Baghdad .
They say several other people were wounded in Thursday 's explosion in a mostly Shi'ite neighborhood of the Iraqi capital .
The blast comes a day after a car bombing near a Shi'ite mosque in the town of Howaider killed 26 people .
Earlier Thursday , a roadside bomb killed an American soldier outside of Baghdad .
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow , when a birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets .
The Cranes , being light of wing , fled away at his approach ; while the Geese , being slower of flight and heavier in their bodies , were captured .
U.S.-based General Motors is laying off 30,000 people and closing 12 factories and other facilities over the next three years .
Most of those layoffs were disclosed previously , but Monday 's announcement raises the total by 5,000 and gives plant-closing details .
GM lost billions of dollars this year .
The world 's largest automaker has been battered by soaring fuel prices that hurt sales of its highly-profitable SUVs and other large vehicles .
It is also hobbled by its workforce 's high wage , health , and pension costs .
GM once had 51 percent of the U.S. auto market , but that share has fallen to just 26 percent this year .
Asian automakers , including Toyota , have gained market share with fuel-efficient cars and new , high-tech hybrid engines .
Several people were wounded in northwest Pakistan Thursday , after roadside bombs exploded in attacks against security forces .
In the first incident , a bomb struck a police van taking people to jail in the district of Dir in North West Frontier Province .
At least three officers and two prisoners were hurt .
Elsewhere , police officials say two roadside bombs exploded near a military convoy in North Waziristan , wounding one soldier .
Pro-Taleban militants in North Waziristan have pulled out of a peace deal with the Pakistani government designed to drive out foreign extremists .
A U.S. intelligence report issued last week said al-Qaida terrorists have been given safe haven in the remote tribal region along the Afghan border .
Militants have increased attacks in Pakistan over the last two weeks , killing around 200 people in a series of suicide bombings since the government raided a radical Islamic mosque in Islamabad .
Australia is warning its citizens to avoid travel to Pakistan due to what it calls a " very high threat " of terrorist attack , including a possible plot against Western hotels in the capital .
In the warning issued Monday , the Department of Foreign Affairs said Australian officials continue to receive reports that terrorists are planning attacks against a range of targets , including areas frequented by foreigners .
The statement says recent credible reporting indicates a potential threat against Western hotels in Islamabad .
It also says recent reports suggest that terrorists are planning attacks against Western , including Australian , individuals and interests in Peshawar .
But it warns that attacks " could occur at any time , anywhere " in Pakistan .
Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam is quoted saying that Pakistan does not have any information about any plot to attack Western hotels .
Iranian state media said the country 's electoral oversight council has approved four candidates , including incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , to compete in next month 's presidential election .
The official IRNA news agency reported Wednesday that the Guardian Council approved Mr. Ahmadinejad , former prime minister Mir Hossein Mousavi , ex-parliament speaker Mehdi Karroubi and the former head of the Revolutionary Guards Mohsen Rezai .
The 12-member council approved the candidates after screening them for their allegiance to Iran 's Islamic government system and official religion .
More than 450 Iranians had registered to run for president , including 42 women .
Mr. Ahmadinejad 's rivals have criticized his handling of the economy , which suffers from high inflation .
However , the president has won praise at home for trying to raise Iran 's profile in rocket and satellite technology .
The election is June 12 .
Gunmen in Somalia 's capital have seriously wounded a member of parliament and killed his driver .
Officials said the attack on Amir Mohamed Jaketi took place Wednesday morning in northern Mogadishu .
Witnesses said unidentified men sprayed the lawmaker 's car with gunfire , leaving him with several wounds , including one in the chest .
The driver was killed on the spot , while Jaketi was rushed to a hospital .
This was the first attack on a Somali legislator since a new unity government was formed earlier this year .
Hardline Islamist groups have vowed to continue fighting the government , which is led by a moderate Islamist , President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed .
Last week , a roadside bomb blast wounded Interior Minister Abdulkadir Ali Omar .
He suffered only minor injuries .
Pakistan 's army chief has vowed to restore government authority to the militancy-hit Swat valley .
A military statement said General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani traveled to Swat Wednesday to be briefed by local leaders , field commanders and troops .
The statement said Kayani gave new directions to the troops , who have been fighting Taliban militants for more than a year , but it did not elaborate .
Local Taliban fighters loyal to radical cleric Maulana Fazlullah control most parts of the scenic northwestern valley , where they are trying to impose strict Islamic law .
They have banned girls ' education and blown up nearly 200 schools to enforce that order .
Authorities said they found eight bullet-ridden bodies in the area Wednesday .
It was not clear who killed them .
President Bush says Iran 's decision to freeze its uranium enrichment programs is a positive step , but " not the final step . "
Speaking at a joint press conference in Canada Tuesday , Mr. Bush said Iran must go further and terminate its nuclear activities .
He also says the world must be able to verify if Tehran will keep its word .
Iran agreed Monday to suspend its nuclear activities after reaching an agreement with European negotiators .
The agreement staved off a U.S. push to bring the matter to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions over Tehran 's alleged nuclear weapons program .
But Iran says it has not abandoned its right to enrich uranium , and says its agreement will end in " several months . "
The National Football League 's Green Bay Packers fell to a record of no wins and four losses for the season Monday night after falling 32-29 to the host Carolina Panthers .
Carolina capitalized on two early turnovers by Green Bay to build an early lead , then held on for the victory .
The win gives the Panthers an even record of two wins and two losses .
Green Bay rallied from a 19-point deficit , with star quarterback Bret Favre leading the charge , throwing two touchdown passes and two two-point conversions in the fourth quarter .
The future Hall of Fame player moved the Packers into possible scoring The Packers are off to their worst season start in 17 years .
The third year expansion team , the Houston Texans , is the only other NFL team without a win so far this season .
U.S. officials are urging all democratic nations to call for an end to the " violence and intimidation " in Cuba , after Cuban authorities raided a church this week to arrest demonstrators .
A U.S. State Department spokesman , Gonzalo Gallegos , issued a statement late Friday , saying the " escalation in repression " by the Cuban government against activists should be of concern to all nations who embrace human rights .
The Archbishop of the Cuban city of Santiago , Monsignor Dionisio Garcia Ibanez , said Cuban authorities apologized to the Roman Catholic Church for Tuesday 's raid on a parish church .
Police entered the church 's grounds to arrest an unknown number of people after they held a protest march outside .
They reportedly have been released .
Pilgrims from around the world are flocking into Saint Peter 's Square ahead of Pope Benedict 's first Christmas Eve midnight Mass since he assumed the papacy in April .
Thousands will crowd into Saint Peter 's Basilica for the service marking the opening of celebrations of the feast of the birth of Jesus Christ , whom Christians call the Prince of Peace .
Crowds of others will watch the Mass on huge television screens in the square .
Ahead of the Mass , the pope appeared at his study window and joined the pilgrims in singing Christmas carols during a prayer service at a life-sized nativity scene in the square .
At noon Sunday , Christmas Day , Pope Benedict will deliver his first " Urbi et Orbi " ( To the City and the World ) message as well as his blessings and greetings to the faithful of the world from a balcony overlooking Saint Peter 's Square .
Iraqi authorities say bomb attacks across the country killed more than 50 people Tuesday .
The most deadly blast was north of Baghdad , where a roadside bomb killed 23 soldiers .
A car bomb outside a bank in Baghdad killed 14 people , including several soldiers .
The bank was crowded with soldiers drawing their salary payments on the first day of the month .
The British military says a mortar attack killed a British soldier at a base in Basra .
In another incident , a roadside bomb killed an American soldier south of Baghdad .
In other developments , the governor of Najaf says gunmen kidnapped 45 residents of his predominantly Shi'ite province as they traveled through a Sunni Arab area .
Authorities say sectarian violence has forced 20,000 Iraqis to leave their homes during the past 10 days .
Over the past six months , sectarian strife has displaced more than 180,000 people .
A top United Nations envoy says Syria has promised to remove all its troops and agents from Lebanon by the end of the month .
U.N. special envoy Terje Roed-Larsen announced Syria 's commitment , after meeting Sunday with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
He also said a U.N. team will verify the pullout , if Beirut accepts the offer .
Syria has faced intense pressure to pull out of Lebanon , since the February 14 assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Opposition leaders have accused Beirut and its Syrian sponsors of complicity in the bombing that killed the billionaire tycoon - a charge both governments deny .
The Syrian pullout began last month , after days of massive anti-Syrian protests in Beirut .
All Syrian forces have left western Lebanon .
However , some remain deployed on the Lebanese border , awaiting further orders .
A U.S. newspaper says Iran has withdrawn most of its Revolutionary Guards from Lebanon , where they were deployed more than 20 years ago and helped create the Shi'ite Muslim movement Hezbollah .
Citing U.S. and European officials , the Washington Post says only 15 to 20 Iranian military personnel remain in Lebanon , where at one point Iran was estimated to have as many as two-thousand of its elite troops .
Iran is said to have begun the phased withdrawal more than five years ago , but did not publicly announce it .
Iran had deployed troops to protect Lebanon 's Shi'ite population , after Israel 's 1982 invasion of Lebanon .
The United States has repeatedly called for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon .
Syria has promised to finish the withdrawal of thousands of its troops from Lebanon by the end of the month .
Taleban militants say they have kidnapped two French aid workers and their three Afghan colleagues in the southwest of the country .
The governor of Nimroz province , Ghulam Dastagir said Thursday there are 200 security personnel searching for the captives .
Reuters news agency reports that Taleban militants identified the French nationals in a statement posted on the Internet .
The French and Afghan aid workers were kidnapped Tuesday as the group traveled in a car in Nimroz toward neighboring Farah province .
The French aid workers are employed by Terre d'Enfance ( A World for Our Children ) , a French-based aid group that works on educational projects for children .
In another development , Afghan officials say Taleban insurgents killed a policeman and wounded seven others in a roadside bomb attack Wednesday in the southern province of Kandahar .
President Bush is defending his decision to halt troop withdrawals from Iraq while military leaders assess how a reduced American presence will affect security there .
During his weekly radio address Saturday , the president said America must stand with the Iraqi government as it makes the transition to responsibility for its own security and political affairs .
Mr. Bush said a U.S. troop surge 15 months ago has significantly improved security .
He said he has given the U.S. commander in Iraq all the time he needs to decide if security conditions are stable enough to continue withdrawing U.S. troops .
Meanwhile , U.S. Representative John Yarmuth blamed the cost of the Iraq war for America 's sluggish economy .
In the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday , Yarmuth said money being spent on the war should instead be used to deal with pressing needs at home .
The environmental group Greenpeace says China 's three largest power companies created more greenhouse gas emissions last year than the entire United Kingdom .
In a new report , Greenpeace says China 's reliance on coal is hurting Beijing 's fight against global warming .
Greenpeace recommends a new tax on coal for power companies .
It also calls on China to double its renewable energy goal so that by 2020 , 30 percent of its power comes from solar and wind .
With its burgeoning economy and growing demand for cars , China has rapidly become one of the world 's biggest polluters .
Chinese officials have said they are working to cut greenhouse gas emissions .
The three Chinese companies named by Greenpeace are China Huaneng Group , China Datang Corporation and China Guodian Corporation .
Russia 's state-run natural gas monopoly Gazprom has reduced gas supplies to Europe in efforts to conserve domestic supplies in the face of bitter cold temperatures at home .
Gazprom officials say the cuts are a temporary measure in response to increased consumption after the cold spell struck western Russia .
Hungary , Ukraine and Italy have confirmed the reductions .
Ukrainian Energy Minister Ivan Plachkov says his country agreed with Russia to cut gas transit to Europe by 40 million cubic meters a day .
Much of Russia 's European gas exports reach their destinations via Ukrainian pipelines .
In Moscow , at least one person froze to death overnight , as temperatures plunged to minus-30 degrees below zero ( Centigrade ) .
Russian news agencies say 22 other people have died from the cold in surrounding regions .
A report says North Korea has reactivated a nuclear reactor that could be used to refine materials for nuclear warheads .
Japan 's Asahi daily newspaper said Sunday that a U.S. spy satellite detected steam coming from a boiler at the Yongbyon nuclear plant , north of the capital , Pyongyang .
The paper says the vapor was detected before the resumption of six-way nuclear talks in late July , and the issue of the reactivation was discussed during the negotiations .
Asahi quotes an unidentified U.S. official as saying North Korea has indicated it will give up on the nuclear reactor , yet continues to steadily expand nuclear development .
The six-party talks are scheduled to resume sometime next week .
Indian officials say at least 42 people were killed and more than 60 injured when a residential building in New Delhi collapsed Monday night .
Authorities say 20-30 people remain trapped under the wreckage .
The five-story building came crashing down in the densely populated Lalita Park area .
Narrow streets and alleys made it difficult for fire engines and rescue service vehicles to reach the site .
Many of the victims were pulled from the debris by residents who used their bare hands to scoop away mud and mortar .
New Delhi 's officials say the structure of the decades-old building had probably been weakened by this year 's unusually heavy monsoon rains .
Enforcement of building regulations is lax in the Indian capital and corruption in the construction industry often leads to the use of substandard material and inadequate foundations .
Pope Benedict XVI has criticized Western society for what he called its lack of hope , which he said leads many people to seek sexual gratification instead of practicing faith and family values .
The pontiff also deplored poverty and other evils burdening families in Rome and elsewhere .
He made his comments in St. Peter 's Basilica during a homily at the final evening prayer offered there in 2007 .
Pope Benedict then expressed hope that efforts by the faithful to deal with such problems will be successful and bear fruit .
The pope is to begin the New Year Tuesday with Mass in St. Peter 's Basilica .
The Roman Catholic Church celebrates January 1 as its World Day of Peace .
The rector of the Grand Mosque of Paris , Dalil Boubakeur , has been re-elected as president of the French Council of the Muslim Faith .
The council officially represents Islam in relations with government bodies .
France created the council two years ago to form a single point of contact with the Muslim community .
Previously , there existed no single channel for communication between the government and French Muslims .
Islam is the second most professed faith in France , behind Roman Catholicism .
In a congratulatory message to Mr. Boubakeur , French President Jacques Chirac praised the council for its spirit of dialog .
Mr. Boubakeur , a moderate , will serve another two year term as president of the council .
European researchers say greenhouse gases , carbon dioxide and methane , are at their highest levels in 650,000 years .
The findings come from scientists who have analyzed air bubbles trapped for hundreds of thousands of years in Antarctic ice cores .
Analysts for the European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica say carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are currently 27 percent higher than the highest levels in the past 650-thousand years .
Methane gas levels are also currently at their peak .
Previously studied air bubbles dated back only 440,000 years .
Scientists believe the latest data will help clarify whether human activity has altered the Earth 's climate and contributed to global warming .
The research is to be published in Friday 's issue of the journal Science .
A seven-nation regional summit scheduled for next month in Dhaka has been postponed following the destruction caused by Sunday 's tsunami in South Asia .
Bangladeshi Prime Minister Khaleda Zia has issued a statement , saying the decision was made after a request from Sri Lanka .
The summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation was to be held from January 9-11 .
In addition to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh , the forum also includes India , the Maldives , Bhutan , Nepal and Pakistan .
The statement says a new date for the summit will be set in consultation with the member countries , but no specific time frame has been fixed .
Among this group of countries , India , Sri Lanka and the Maldives were the hardest hit by the tsunami disaster .
Bangladesh escaped the worst of the disaster .
More strong aftershocks rattled parts of Indian and Pakistani Kashmir early Wednesday , triggering more landslides in the already devastated region .
Pakistani officials say the tremors of 5.8 and 5.6 magnitude were the strongest since the massive October 8 earthquake that killed more than 40,000 people in Pakistani Kashmir .
India says about 1400 people were killed in its side of the Himalayan region .
The United Nations World Food Program says almost half-a-million earthquake survivors in Pakistan have yet to receive relief supplies .
Tuesday , Pakistani President Musharraf appealed to the international community for more tents to shelter the homeless .
He also offered to open up the military Line of Control in Kashmir - allowing Indian Kashmiris to cross into Pakistan 's portion and assist in reconstruction efforts .
India has welcomed the offer .
But the two sides have yet to work out procedural details .
Colombia is launching an operation aimed at eradicating illegal drug production from its largest nature park .
Colombian police announced Wednesday they are starting to uproot coca plants in the Macarena National Park in Meta department , where rebel groups are known to produce cocaine to help fund their fight against the government .
Some 900 workers are clearing some 4,600 hectares of coca plants by hand over the next several months , under heavy security to guard against rebel attacks .
The Associated Press reports the workers will also destroy clandestine roads and bridges used by the rebels to transport their drugs through the area .
The United States helps fund a crop-dusting program in Colombia to destroy coca plants on private land , but stays away from park areas to preserve the vegetation .
The U.S. Senate has rejected a Republican-sponsored bill that would have raised the U.S. minimum wage and cut inheritance taxes on multimillion dollar estates .
The measure needed 60 votes for final congressional approval , but fell four votes short , with 56 senators voting in favor of the bill and 42 against .
The bill would have increased the hourly minimum wage for U.S. workers from $ 5.15 an hour to $ 7.27 over the next three years .
Opposition Democrats have been calling for an increase in the minimum wage , which has not been raised since 1997 .
But many of them denounced the bill as a cynical ploy to achieve a cut in the estate tax , which is a major goal for conservative Republicans .
Republicans say the estate tax - which they have dubbed the " death tax " - makes it impossible for many Americans to pass on their family-owned businesses to their children .
Israeli aircraft carried out more air strikes in the Gaza Strip Tuesday , continuing an offensive following last week 's cross-border rocket attacks by Palestinian militants .
There were no immediate reports of casualties from the pre-dawn missile strikes on Gaza 's Beit Hanoun region .
The Israeli military says it destroyed bridges used by Palestinian militants .
In the West Bank , Israeli troops arrested 82 more Palestinian militants in overnight sweeps , raising the number of suspects arrested since Sunday to nearly 300 .
Israel 's Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz vowed that Israel will press on with the offensive .
Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon won a narrow victory within his Likud party late Monday , when members voted down a proposal to hold primary elections in November .
Former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had pressed for a November primary to punish Mr. Sharon for evacuating the Gaza Strip .
Chinese rescue crews have recovered the bodies of all 83 miners killed in Monday 's mine blast in northwestern Xinjiang region .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says only four of the 87 miners underground at the time survived the tragedy at the Shenlong Coal Mine in Fukang County .
Xinhua says the explosion was caused by a buildup of gas in the mine shaft .
Officials say this is the worst coal mine accident in Xinjiang 's history .
The regional government has asked other area coal mine operators to suspend production and make needed safety improvements .
China 's coal mines are the world 's most dangerous , with explosions , floods and fires killing thousands of workers each year .
Inadequate safety equipment and lax safety rules are often blamed for the accidents .
Thousands of Israeli troops and soldiers have stopped opponents of the Gaza withdrawal from marching into the Palestinian territory .
The massive Israeli force prevented the demonstrators from marching south of the Israeli town of Ofakim .
Witnesses say many protesters sat on the street when they were stopped from advancing .
Israel closed the Gaza Strip to all Israelis but settler residents last month , as it sought to minimize right-wing resistance to its mid-August withdrawal .
In other developments , the Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad says it has ordered its gunmen in Gaza to stop firing rockets at Israeli targets while Israel moves to complete the pullout .
The group issued a statement after errant rocket fire targeting southern Israel killed a Palestinian child and wounded eight other Palestinians .
The Jihad statement denied responsibility .
The African Union says it is running out of money to fund its peace keeping mission in Sudan 's war-ravaged western Darfur region .
AU Commissioner for Peace and Security Said Djinnit told reporters Friday in Addis Ababa that the mission has only enough money to operate to April , at the latest .
Mr. Djinnit also announced a European Union donation of $ 70 million to the mission , but said it still falls short of what is needed .
Tens of thousands of people have died and two million others have been displaced since the war between rebels and government-backed militias in Darfur began in 2003 .
The United Nations has called Darfur the world 's worst humanitarian crisis .
The Israeli Supreme Court has banned the army from using Palestinian civilians as human shields in arrest raids .
A three-judge panel issued Thursday 's ruling , which says the army 's practice of forcing Palestinian civilians to approach the homes of suspected militants violates international law .
The ruling grew out of a 2002 case brought by Israeli and Palestinian human rights groups , after a Palestinian teenager , Nidal Daraghmeh was forced to knock on the door of a suspected West Bank militant .
The teenager was shot dead when gunfire erupted moments later .
In August of 2002 , the court issued a temporary injunction against the practice .
But a 2004 photograph of a Palestinian boy strapped to the front of an Israeli jeep under attack by Palestinian rock-throwers prompted human rights activists to complain the army was ignoring the court order .
Israel 's army declined to comment on Wednesday 's ruling .
One of the world 's poorest countries , Comoros is made up of three islands that have inadequate transportation links , a young and rapidly increasing population , and few natural resources .
The low educational level of the labor force contributes to a subsistence level of economic activity , high unemployment , and a heavy dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance .
Agriculture , including fishing , hunting , and forestry , contributes 40 % to GDP , employs 80 % of the labor force , and provides most of the exports .
Export income is heavily reliant on the three main crops of vanilla , cloves , and ylang-ylang and Comoros ' export earnings are easily disrupted by disasters such as fires .
The country is not self-sufficient in food production ; rice , the main staple , accounts for the bulk of imports .
The government - which is hampered by internal political disputes - lacks a comprehensive strategy to attract foreign investment and is struggling to upgrade education and technical training , privatize commercial and industrial enterprises , improve health services , diversify exports , promote tourism , and reduce the high population growth rate .
Political problems have inhibited growth , which has averaged only about 1 % in 2006 - 09 .
Remittances from 150,000 Comorans abroad help supplement GDP .
In September 2009 the IMF approved Comoros for a three-year $ 21 million loan .
The IMF gave generally positive reports of the country 's program performance as of October 2010 .
The African Development Bank approved a $ 34.6 million debt-relief package loan for Comoros in September 2010 , and Comoros will attempt to qualify for debt relief in 2012 under the IMF and World Bank 's Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) initiative .
India 's Tata Motors is expected to unveil the world 's cheapest car on Thursday .
The new vehicle is expected to cost about $ 2,500 .
A news report says the company worked to keep costs down by keeping the vehicle small , light and as simple as possible .
The report says the car has one windshield wiper instead of two , and no frills such as radios or power steering .
Much of the vehicle is expected to be made of plastic .
Only about eight Indians out of every 1,000 now own a car , so there may be a large market for the vehicle in the nation 's fast-growing economy .
The UAE has an open economy with a high per capita income and a sizable annual trade surplus .
Successful efforts at economic diversification have reduced the portion of GDP based on oil and gas output to 25 % .
Since the discovery of oil in the UAE more than 30 years ago , the UAE has undergone a profound transformation from an impoverished region of small desert principalities to a modern state with a high standard of living .
The government has increased spending on job creation and infrastructure expansion and is opening up utilities to greater private sector involvement .
In April 2004 , the UAE signed a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement with Washington and in November 2004 agreed to undertake negotiations toward a Free Trade Agreement with the US , however , those talks have not moved forward .
The country 's Free Trade Zones - offering 100 % foreign ownership and zero taxes - are helping to attract foreign investors .
The global financial crisis , tight international credit , and deflated asset prices constricted the economy in 2009 and 2010 .
UAE authorities tried to blunt the crisis by increasing spending and boosting liquidity in the banking sector .
The crisis hit Dubai hardest , as it was heavily exposed to depressed real estate prices .
Dubai lacked sufficient cash to meet its debt obligations , prompting global concern about its solvency .
The UAE Central Bank and Abu Dhabi-based banks bought the largest shares .
In December 2009 Dubai received an additional $ 10 billion loan from the emirate of Abu Dhabi .
The economy is expected to continue a slow rebound .
Dependence on oil , a large expatriate workforce , and growing inflation pressures are significant long-term challenges .
The UAE 's strategic plan for the next few years focuses on diversification and creating more opportunities for nationals through improved education and increased private sector employment .
Chinese authorities have paraded the Olympic torch through a mountain town in southwestern Yunnan province called Shangri-la , the first of several stops it will make in Tibetan areas .
Security around the flame was extremely tight Wednesday , with police lining the route and keeping watch from the tops of surrounding buildings .
Some local Buddhist monks said they were forbidden from leaving their monastery .
Anti-Beijing demonstrations in Tibet and Tibetan areas of China earlier this year prompted Chinese authorities to shorten the Tibet leg of the torch relay .
Some human rights activists have called on Olympic officials to scrap the Tibet leg altogether .
The torch is scheduled to pass through the Tibetan capital , Lhasa , on June 19 .
China has come under international criticism for its crackdown in Tibet in March .
Angry demonstrations in several cities marred the international torch relay for the upcoming Beijing Olympics .
Health officials in Jakarta say local tests show a 39-year old Indonesian man has died from bird flu .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization , it would bring to 10 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the H5N1 strain of the virus .
Thursday , China 's state media reported a sixth person in the country has been diagnosed with bird flu .
The Health Ministry identified the latest victim as a 35-year-old man from Suichuan County in the eastern province of Jiangxi .
The ministry gave no further details .
Earlier , China 's Agriculture Ministry reported an outbreak in a flock of ducks , also in Jiangxi .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 70 people in East Asia since 2003 .
The U.S. military says American warplanes have launched air strikes on sites in Iraq near the Syrian border , killing some 40 insurgents .
In a statement Saturday , U.S. military officials said seven missiles were fired on heavily-armed militants who were stopping and searching cars near the western town of Karabilah .
Meantime , Iraqi officials said a former member of an elite commando unit , the Wolf Brigade blew himself up inside the unit 's headquarters , killing three people .
Bayan Jabor Insurgents opened fire on a minibus carrying construction workers in Baghdad , killing at least 11 Iraqis and wounding three others .
Also today , Interior Minister Bayan Jabor praised a sweeping crackdown on insurgents in the Iraqi capital .
He says Operation Lightning has led to the arrests of 1,300 terrorists and has sharply cut the number of car bombings in the city .
The European Union has formally launched an investigation into surging Chinese textile sales , a move that could lead the EU to limit those imports .
European Commission members approved the investigation Thursday , amid growing concerns by EU members that Chinese textile imports have flooded European markets since a worldwide quota system expired January 1 .
Officials say the investigation can last up to 60 days - and after that period limits could then be imposed .
France , however , is calling for the EU to bypass the investigation and instead take emergency actions to limit the quantity of imports .
China has criticized the EU move , warning it could have a negative impact on relations .
The United States is also looking into the impact that increased Chinese textile imports is having on its textile producers .
Crude oil prices fell about $ 1 in Tuesday 's trading .
The price drop came after the dollar gained strength when the head of the U.S. central bank signaled that the Federal Reserve has finished cutting interest rates and might increase them .
Higher interest rates in a country tend to boost the value of its currency .
The cost of a barrel of oil for future delivery hit $ 133.43 a barrel in New York , reversing gains made in earlier trading .
The price of oil is down significantly from the record high of $ 139.12 last week , but about double the cost at this time last year .
Soaring crude oil prices have pushed retail gasoline prices above $ 1.06 a liter in the United States .
Gasoline is sold in gallons in the United States , a unit of about 3.8 liters .
Gasoline prices recently exceeded the $ 4 a gallon mark .
Ten thousand smelly sneakers were cause for celebration in Washington July 2 .
They set a world record for the longest chain of shoes , while teaching kids about recycling .
A national children 's magazine sponsored the event at their downtown headquarters , and you might be surprised to hear what will happen to the shoes next .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti shows us .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is embarking on a two-week tour that will take him to seven countries .
Mr. Chavez is expected to first visit Brazil before continuing on to Argentina for a summit Friday of the South American trade bloc , Mercosur .
From South America , the Venezuelan president travels to Belarus before visiting Russia .
In Moscow , he is expected to sign a military agreement allowing Caracas to purchase Russian Sukhoi Su-30 fighter planes and small arms .
Mr. Chavez is also seeking rights to build a manufacturing plant for Kalashnikov assault rifles in Venezuela .
During the tour , Mr. Chavez will also visit Qatar , Iran and Vietnam .
Meanwhile , Venezuelan officials say Foreign Minister Ali Rodriguez has been hospitalized with heart problems , and will not accompany Mr. Chavez on the trip .
European Union observers say there were some worrisome cases of fraud in the Afghan parliamentary elections held September 18 .
They reported there was some ballot rigging , proxy voting , and possibly voter intimidation .
The report says although the fraud did not appear to be nationwide , it is a cause for concern .
The report urges the country 's election administration to address the issues in a transparent way so that the integrity of the electoral process can be safeguarded .
More than six million Afghans voted for new national parliament and provincial assemblies .
Earlier this week , the joint U.N.-Afghan electoral authority expressed satisfaction with how the polls were conducted .
Final results are expected October 22 .
Pakistan 's military says a roadside bomb has killed two soldiers in the country 's North Waziristan tribal region .
Four other soldiers were wounded in Thursday 's attack on a military convoy in Spinwam , near the border with Afghanistan .
Violence has escalated in North Waziristan since July , when pro-Taleban militants abandoned a 10-month peace deal with Pakistani authorities .
The government has deployed 90,000 troops along the Afghan border to hunt down Taleban and al-Qaida fugitives .
An independent U.S. government report says the Army has enough money available to fund its military operations in Iraq through July .
The Congressional Research Service - the nonpartisan research agency of U.S. Congress - issued a report this week saying the Army could pay for both its regular and combat operations through May .
After that , it can shift money from different accounts dedicated to non-combat functions .
The report is in contrast to assertions by President Bush and military leaders that the Army would start running out of money in April if lawmakers did not approve an emergency spending bill .
Congress has approved the money in proposed bills .
But the proposals backed mainly by Democratic Party members in both the Senate and House of Representatives impose deadlines to withdraw the troops from Iraq .
Mr. Bush has threatened to veto any bill that includes such timetables .
The White House says President George Bush has suspended special trade benefits with Bolivia because of its failure to cooperate in drug-fighting efforts .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Wednesday that Bolivia was suspended as a beneficiary country under the Andean Trade Preference Act ( ATPA ) and the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act ( ATPDEA ) .
The spokeswoman said the suspension takes effect December 15 .
But , Perino said the benefits can be restored if Bolivia were to improve its performance under the criteria of both programs and at the president 's discretion .
The trade preferences lowered tariffs on Andean nations that help the United States fight drugs .
Three weeks ago , Bolivian President Evo Morales suspended the work of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration in his country , accusing agents of spying and supporting anti-government protests .
He also gave them three months to leave the country .
U.S. officials rejected the accusations .
Carlos Moya has defeated American Andy Roddick 6-2 , 7-6 , 7-6 in Seville , to clinch the 2004 Davis Cup Tennis Championship for Spain .
The hosts came into Sunday 's final day of play with a 2-1 lead , and the Americans needed to win both reverse singles matches to capture the title .
Roddick battled hard and had chances in the second and third sets .
But Moya , the former world number-one and French Open champion , took advantage of his clay court expertise to secure Spain 's second-ever Davis Cup title , 3-1 .
American Mardy Fish challenges Rafael Nadal in a meaningless " dead-rubber " reverse singles match to complete the best-of-five series .
Reports from the northern Bosnian city of Banja Luka say a Bosnian Serb suspect who surrendered to authorities there Tuesday is on his way to The Hague for trial before the United Nations war crimes tribunal .
The suspect , Sredoje Lukic , is accused of some of the most serious war crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia .
He is said to have been hiding in Russia until his surrender , after what officials called joint action by Serbian and Bosnian Serb authorities .
The U.N. tribunal indicted Mr. Lukic in 2000 for inhumane acts against non-Serbs , religious persecution and crimes against humanity .
Mr. Lukic and his cousin , Milan Lukic , were members of a paramilitary group that murdered , tortured and terrorized Muslims during the conflict of the 1990s in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Milan Lukic was arrested in Argentina last month and is awaiting extradition .
Iran 's outgoing President Mohammed Khatami says his government will resume some key nuclear work regardless of what European diplomats propose next month to defuse a dispute over Tehran 's nuclear program .
Mr. Khatami told reporters Wednesday , that Tehran will resume low-level uranium enrichment for use in power stations .
Washington has accused Iran of trying to boost its enrichment process to create weapons grade material for use in warheads .
Tehran denies the charges .
Mr. Khatami gave no date for the restarting of enrichment activities , which were suspended late last year under pressure from the European Union and the United Nations .
Britain , France and Germany want Tehran to freeze its enrichment program permanently in exchange for economic incentives .
The two sides are to meet again in early August .
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned .
He called out to a passing traveler for help , but instead of holding out a helping hand , the man stood by unconcernedly , and scolded the boy for his imprudence .
" Oh , sir ! " cried the youth , " pray help me now and scold me afterwards . "
Counsel without help is useless .
A bomb planted near railroad tracks has derailed a passenger train in Russia 's southern republic of Dagestan .
Two rail cars and the locomotive derailed about 11 p.m. Moscow time Saturday night near the border with Chechnya .
The train was traveling from Makhachkala to Astrakhan .
Nobody on the train was hurt , but an official with Russia 's Federal Security Forces was wounded as he was headed to the scene of the accident .
His car was hit by gunfire near the city of Khasavyurt .
He was taken to the hospital for treatment .
Dagestan has suffered recent unrest blamed on local insurgents and spillover violence from Chechnya , where separatists have been battling Russian troops for much of the past decade .
Mexico has a free market economy in the trillion dollar class .
It contains a mixture of modern and outmoded industry and agriculture , increasingly dominated by the private sector .
Recent administrations have expanded competition in seaports , railroads , telecommunications , electricity generation , natural gas distribution , and airports .
Per capita income is roughly one-third that of the US ; income distribution remains highly unequal .
Since the implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) in 1994 , Mexico 's share of US imports has increased from 7 % to 12 % , and its share of Canadian imports has doubled to 5 % .
Mexico has free trade agreements with over 50 countries including , Guatemala , Honduras , El Salvador , the European Free Trade Area , and Japan , putting more than 90 % of trade under free trade agreements .
In 2007 , during its first year in office , the Felipe CALDERON administration was able to garner support from the opposition to successfully pass pension and fiscal reforms .
The administration passed an energy reform measure in 2008 and another fiscal reform in 2009 .
Mexico 's GDP plunged 6.5 % in 2009 as world demand for exports dropped , asset prices tumbled , and remittances and investment declined .
GDP posted positive growth of 5 % in 2010 , with exports - particularly to the United States - leading the way , while domestic consumption and investment lagged .
The administration continues to face many economic challenges , including improving the public education system , upgrading infrastructure , modernizing labor laws , and fostering private investment in the energy sector .
CALDERON has stated that his top economic priorities remain reducing poverty and creating jobs .
Two explosions are reported outside the Lao capital , Vientiane , as the country prepares to host a major summit of regional countries .
Witnesses say the blasts occurred Friday near the border with Thailand .
No casualties were reported , and it is not clear what caused the blasts .
Laos is preparing to host a two-day summit of leaders from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and China , Japan , South Korea , India , Australia and New Zealand .
The United States has warned that opponents of the Lao government may be plotting bomb attacks in Vientiane and elsewhere in the country during next week 's summit .
Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be colonized by Europeans due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the native Caribs .
France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763 , which made the island a colony in 1805 .
In 1980 , two years after independence , Dominica 's fortunes improved when a corrupt and tyrannical administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia CHARLES , the first female prime minister in the Caribbean , who remained in office for 15 years .
Some 3,000 Carib Indians still living on Dominica are the only pre-Columbian population remaining in the eastern Caribbean .
The U.S. economy grew a little more slowly than first thought during April , May , and June .
Wednesday 's update of gross domestic product growth in the second quarter shows the economy expanding at a healthy 3.3 percent .
The Commerce Department says that is a little less ( 0.1 percent less ) than first thought .
It is also half a percent below first quarter growth .
The new figures do not take into account the damage done to the U.S. energy industry by Hurricane Katrina .
Analysts say hurricane damage is likely to crimp energy supplies and boost prices .
Economists are revising their predictions of future economic growth as they get more detailed reports of the damage and the time needed to repair it .
Higher energy costs can hurt the economy by leaving consumers and businesses with less money to spend on other goods .
U.S. public diplomacy chief Karen Hughes meets Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif in Cairo Monday - the second day of a tour aimed at polishing America 's image in the Middle East .
Sunday , Ms. Hughes met with the head of Cairo 's Al Azhar mosque , Sheikh Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi , who is an influential Islamic leader .
Speaking with reporters , Ms. Hughes has acknowledged she faces a " huge challenge " in her efforts to win greater foreign public support for U.S. policies .
She said she understands there are many " deep-seated " differences and concerns about American policies .
Ms. Hughes also is traveling this week to Saudi Arabia and Turkey on her first foreign trip as Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy .
She calls her trip a " listening tour , " to acquaint her with America 's image abroad .
Authorities in Britain have detained and plan to deport 10 foreign nationals suspected of posing a threat to national security .
Home Secretary Charles Clarke made the announcement Thursday but did not give any details .
British media say one of the detainees could be Abu Qatada , who fled to Britain claiming persecution in Jordan .
British authorities have described him as a top al-Qaida recruiter .
Last week , Prime Minister Tony Blair announced a series of measures aimed at fighting terrorism following the July London bomb attacks .
They include deporting foreigners who advocate violence .
Mr. Clarke said he received assurances from the countries where the detainees will sent that they will not be subject to torture or ill-treatment .
The United Nations World Food Program says the first major airlift of emergency food aid for drought-stricken Niger is set to begin on Thursday .
The agency says an aircraft will take off from Brindisi in southern Italy Thursday morning , to deliver 44 metric tons of high-energy biscuits to Niger 's capital , Niamey .
Country director Giancarlo Cirri says the food can not arrive soon enough for the estimated 2.5 million people facing food shortages as a result of drought and locusts .
He calls the situation some of the worst hunger he has ever witnessed .
Meanwhile , the British charity Oxfam is calling on the United Nations to create a $ 1 billion emergency relief fund to prevent future food crises .
Aid agencies began warning of severe food shortages in Niger last year - but donors failed to respond until television images of the hungry were broadcast .
Niger 's newly re-elected president , Mamadou Tandja , has re-appointed Hama Amadou to the post of prime minister .
The president made the announcement Friday , one day after Mr. Amadou and his cabinet tendered their resignations in line with Niger 's constitution .
Mr. Amadou , who is 54 , has been praised for his efforts to steer the impoverished West African country towards economic and political stability .
He was widely expected to be re-appointed as prime minister .
Earlier this month , President Mamadou won 65.5 percent of the vote in the final round of presidential elections .
His ruling party also won a strong majority in parliament .
Occupying the northeast corner of the African continent , Egypt is bisected by the highly fertile Nile valley , where most economic activity takes place .
Egypt 's economy was highly centralized during the rule of former President Gamal Abdel NASSER but opened up considerably under former Presidents Anwar EL-SADAT and Mohamed Hosni MUBARAK .
Cairo from 2004 to 2008 aggressively pursued economic reforms to attract foreign investment and facilitate GDP growth .
The global financial crisis slowed the reform efforts .
The budget deficit climbed to over 8 % of GDP and Egypt 's GDP growth slowed to 4.6 % in 2009 , predominately due to reduced growth in export-oriented sectors , including manufacturing and tourism , and Suez Canal revenues .
In 2010 , the government spent more on infrastructure and public projects , and exports drove GDP growth to more than 5 % , but GDP growth in 2011 is unlikely to bounce back to pre-global financial recession levels , when it stood at 7 % .
Despite the relatively high levels of economic growth over the past few years , living conditions for the average Egyptian remain poor .
A Muslim chaplain has delivered the opening prayer for the U.S. House of Representatives , an honor few Muslim clergy get .
Abdullah Antepli of Duke University in North Carolina served as a guest chaplain Wednesday , at the invitation of Representative David Price , a North Carolina Democrat .
He prayed for God to guide members of Congress and enable them to serve citizens of the country and all humanity , regardless of gender , ethnicity or religion .
Duke University says Antepli , who was born in Turkey , is only one of a few full-time Muslim chaplains at U.S. colleges and universities .
It says his work focuses on religious leadership for Duke 's Muslim community , pastoral care and counseling for people of any faith or belief , and intra- and interfaith work .
Egypt 's opposition Muslim Brotherhood says it has won more seats in the nation 's month-long parliamentary elections .
A Brotherhood spokesman , Issam al-Aryan , said Sunday unofficial results from Saturday 's second phase runoffs gave his movement 28 more seats , adding to the 47 won in previous rounds of voting .
Official results have yet to be released .
The ruling National Democratic Party still dominates the 444-seat parliament , having won at least 120 seats .
A final round of voting will be held Thursday .
The Muslim Brotherhood has accused the ruling party of obstructing the election after hundreds of the group 's members were arrested .
The group accuses police of intimidating voters , dispersing crowds with tear gas and rubber bullets and shutting polling stations where police suspected support for Islamist candidates .
The Brotherhood is banned as a political party , but endorses candidates who support the party 's Islamist platform .
Authorities in western India say at least 48 people were killed and about 30 injured when the large water tank they were sitting on collapsed during a village fair .
Local officials say the accident happened late Sunday in Baratpur district of Rajasthan state .
They say about 200 people climbed atop the water tank to watch a wrestling match and the structure supporting it gave way .
The victims fell into the water-filled concrete tank and it came crashing down .
The area 's top administrator , R. Venkateshwaran , said the injured were taken to hospitals .
He said eight people remain hospitalized , while the rest had been discharged .
The Rajasthan government has ordered an investigation .
Cuba 's state-run media report that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has met with his Cuban counterpart , Raul Castro , and former President Fidel Castro to reaffirm ties between their nations .
The Communist Party newspaper Granma says President Chavez arrived in Cuba from Nicaragua Thursday .
The report says discussions focused on ways to strengthen economic and social ties .
It says Mr. Chavez and Raul Castro toured a community construction project in the town of Playa and met with members of the community .
Cuba and Venezuela are close political allies .
Venezuela is Cuba 's main trading partner .
In December , the two nations signed cooperation agreements in the areas of health , education , farming and energy worth some $ 3 billion .
Cuba and Venezuela are founding members of ALBA , a leftist bloc of Latin American nations formed in 2004 to counter U.S. influence in the region .
Iran 's nuclear ambitions are the main topic of discussion Saturday at the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says chances Iran can avoid being referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions are low if Tehran continues its controversial nuclear research .
Straw says Iran 's chief nuclear negotiator , Ali Larijani , is expected to confer with British and other officials Monday in London .
Ministers at the Davos conference also are expected to work Saturday on setting a timetable for future talks on cutting farm subsidies and opening markets to developing nations .
Ministers representing more than 25 World Trade Organization members are scheduled to conclude the two-day meeting Saturday .
Former Darfur rebels said Friday they rescued a kidnapped Chinese worker in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Reuters news agency reports the engineer was in good health .
A Sudanese army spokesman said Wednesday he had information the engineer had been taken hostage in neighboring Chad .
Last month three Russian pilots were kidnapped in Sudan 's Darfur region at gunpoint and held for two days .
They were released one day after an American aid worker was freed in Darfur after being held captive for more than 100 days .
U.S. troops in Fallujah have found a safe house which they say contains evidence linked to wanted militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
U.S. Lieutenant General John Sattler Thursday did not confirm the find , but he said coalition troops had found a number of insurgent headquarters in the city .
Embedded reporters in Fallujah say troops searching the safe house property found photographs , notes , ammunition and letters thought to be from al-Zarqawi .
Videotape shot by an American news crew also showed a mural pledging allegiance to the al Qaida terrorist network .
Several bodies lay outside the house , and soldiers found an American-made truck wired with explosives nearby .
U.S. and Iraqi officials have said the terrorist leader probably fled Fallujah ahead of the recent assault .
A Russian newspaper says Russia is planning to sell up to nine submarines to Venezuela .
The Kommersant reports Thursday that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is expected to sign the deal during a trip to Moscow , which starts June 29 .
The contract would include five older , 636-type diesel submarines and the future delivery of four state-of-the-art 677 Amur submarines .
Russia has also supplied similar submarines to China .
In recent years , Venezuela has become a major buyer of Russian arms , a development that has prompted expressions of concern by the United States .
Previous Russian arms deals have supplied Venezuela with Kalashnikov rifles , jets , helicopters , and other weaponry .
Venezuela 's president is a fierce critic of the Bush administration and says it supported the coup against him in April 2002 .
U.S. officials have denied the charge .
The United States and France have again called for the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon .
Speaking in London at a conference on Palestinian reforms , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and France 's foreign minister Michel Barnier called on Syria to implement the United Nations Security Council resolution aimed at ending foreign interference in Lebanon .
Ms. Rice said France and the United States are discussing ways to help Beirut ensure that its next elections are free and fair .
She also said the two countries are considering options aimed at stabilizing Lebanon if Syrian troops withdraw .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian government resigned Monday following mass protests and a no-confidence motion in parliament over the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Both the Syrian and the Lebanese governments have denied involvement in the February 14 attack that sparked anti-Syrian demonstrations .
Lebanon 's opposition leaders say protests will continue until Syria withdraws its 14,000 troops .
A BOSS who had gone to Canada was taunted by a Citizen of Montreal with having fled to avoid prosecution .
" You do me a grave injustice , " said the Boss , parting with a pair of tears .
" I came to Canada solely because of its political attractions ; its Government is the most corrupt in the world . "
" Pray forgive me , " said the Citizen of Montreal .
They fell upon each other 's neck , and at the conclusion of that touching rite the Boss had two watches .
The United Nations has given its annual Franklin Delano Roosevelt International Disability Award to Poland , recognizing the country 's efforts to integrate the disabled into Polish society .
President Lech Kaczynski accepted the award at a ceremony Monday at U.N. headquarters in New York .
He said his country 's struggle for freedom includes a commitment to the rights of those with disabilities .
He said their rights are guaranteed by the Polish constitution .
Mr. Kaczynski promised that Poland will adopt a new U.N. convention to protect the disabled .
The award is named for U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt , whose legs were paralyzed from polio .
Mr. Roosevelt was president from 1933 until 1945 .
Israeli troops have detained a top member of the Palestinian militant group Hamas during a raid on an apartment building in the West Bank city of Tulkarem .
Rami al-Tayyah has been wanted by Israel since 2002 in connection with the recruitment of militants and the establishment of Hamas cells suspected of carrying out shootings and bomb attacks against Israeli citizens .
Also Saturday , Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia accused Israel of hampering efforts to restart peace efforts following the death of Yasser Arafat .
Mr. Qureia told his cabinet that Israel 's continued military aggression sends a clear message that it does not want to allow things to quiet down and bring the peace process back on track .
Mr. Qureia 's criticism came as German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer arrived in the region for talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders .
The Cayman Islands are under a tropical storm warning and a hurricane watch , as a new tropical depression is taking shape in the northwest Caribbean Sea .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the system could strengthen into Tropical Storm Wilma later Sunday .
Wilma would be the 21st named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , tying a record set in 1933 .
At daybreak , the depression was centered 325 kilometers southeast of Grand Cayman Island and had sustained winds of 55 kilometers per hour .
The hurricane center says the storm will likely bring heavy rains to the Caymans and Jamaica .
Long-range forecasts show the storm possibly moving into the Gulf of Mexico next week .
Several U.S. cities along the Gulf coast are still reeling from Hurricane Katrina .
NATO says its forces carried out a precision airstrike Saturday targeting a Taleban militant in southern Afghanistan .
In a statement , NATO said the mission targeted the vehicle of a suspected terrorist who is allegedly linked to the transport of anti-aircraft weapons .
Details about casualties related to the strike in Helmand province were not released .
The strike took place during the first week of NATO 's offensive against Taleban militants in southern Afghanistan .
Also Saturday , authorities in eastern Afghanistan say four Afghan security officers were killed in a roadside bomb blast .
Officials say the attack occurred in Khost province , near the Pakistani border .
In southern Afghanistan Friday , a remote-controlled bomb ripped through the vehicle of pro-government tribal elder Mullah Naqib .
Naqib and some of his family members and guards were wounded in the blast and at least two others were killed .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney has arrived in Saudi Arabia for talks on issues including how to stop the sectarian violence in Iraq .
Cheney is expected to ask Saudi officials to use their influence with Iraq 's Sunni Arab minority to help stabilize the country .
U.S. officials say the Saudi government has been a strong ally in the region .
The vice president 's talks with King Abdullah also will include the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the situation in Lebanon .
On Wednesday , President Bush is to open talks about Iraqi security with Iraq 's Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in Jordan .
The Bush administration is reviewing its strategy in Iraq in hopes of stopping the rise in sectarian violence and continued attacks on coalition forces .
The United States will host Croatia in the opening round of the 2005 Davis Cup tennis tournament .
The U.S. Tennis Association announced Thursday the games will be played on the hardcourts at Carson , California near Los Angeles .
The three-day tie ( series ) beginning on March 4 could be the start of a title defense for the American squad .
The United States faces host Spain starting Friday in the Davis Cup final on clay at Seville .
The United States is trying to win its first Davis Cup crown since 1995 .
In the only previous Davis Cup match between the countries , Croatia defeated the US squad , 4-1 , in a 2003 first-round tie at Zagreb .
The winner will face either Romania or Belarus in the second round next July .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh have appealed for an end to the fighting between Hamas militiamen and the president 's Fatah faction .
At least eight people were killed and scores more wounded in the fighting which broke out Sunday in the Gaza Strip and Ramallah .
The clashes were triggered when Hamas security forces tried to stop protests by policemen demanding the payment of overdue salaries from the Hamas-led government .
Demonstrators set fire to the Palestinian cabinet building in Ramallah .
Members of the armed wing of the President 's Fatah faction kidnapped a Hamas minister .
In a televised speech , President Abbas called on Fatah and Hamas forces to end the conflict and return to their positions .
The Interior Ministry responded by ordering Hamas-led security forces to redeploy to positions held before the confrontation .
Authorities in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul say two Christian churches have been the target of nearly simultaneous bomb attacks .
Witnesses say gunmen stormed the Armenian and Chaldean churches Tuesday , planting explosives that detonated , setting the buildings on fire .
No casualties have been confirmed .
Iraq 's minority Christian community has been the target of attacks before , most recently last month when three people were killed in a bomb attack on a Baghdad church .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Tuesday while on patrol in Baghdad .
Brazilian lawmakers have approved legislation that will give the government more control over developing offshore oil fields .
The lower house of the Brazilian congress passed the bill Wednesday , sending it to outgoing President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva for his signature .
The measure allows the state-owned oil company , known as Petrobras , to be the sole operator of unexplored offshore oil fields , as well as a 30 percent stake in any joint ventures .
Brazil has discovered potentially large oil reserves off the country 's southeastern coast , some of them thousands of meters below the sea floor .
Some estimates say the fields may contain more than 50 billion barrels of oil .
Brazilian lawmakers also approved a provision that will allow non-oil producing states to receive more oil revenues .
Doctors treating Ukrainian opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko have confirmed he was poisoned with TCDD , the most harmful type of dioxin .
TCDD was a key contaminant in Agent Orange , the substance that caused numerous health problems during the Vietnam War .
The doctors in Vienna say the level was about 6,000 times higher than normal .
In an interview Thursday with the Associated Press , Mr. Yushchenko said he was poisoned at a September dinner with top Ukrainian security officials .
This came as Mr. Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych were in the midst of a heated presidential election campaign .
The two face off in a December 26 election .
The Associated Press also interviewed Mr. Yanukovych , who said he does not want to be associated with authorities Mr. Yushchenko say poisoned him .
Mr. Yanukovych was declared winner of a flawed November election , but the Supreme Court overturned the results and ordered this month 's re-run .
Egyptian officials say more than 40 people have died in a series of bomb attacks in a Red Sea resort area .
Police say the seven blasts early Saturday included as many as four car bombs , and injured more than 100 people .
Witnesses say one hotel , Ghazala Gardens , in the town of Sharm el-Sheik was heavily damaged by the attacks , which also targeted a tourist bazaar in the Naama Bay area .
Officials say one blast killed 17 people gathered at an outdoor cafe .
The attacks come as hotels are packed with tourists , including many foreigners , during the busy summer vacation season .
Last October , 34 people died in explosions in nearby resort areas .
Egyptian officials blamed the attacks on violence related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
U.S. lawmakers say they plan legislation that would fund efforts to help Iranians receive and send information despite government restrictions .
Independent Senator Joe Lieberman said Thursday that the bill intends to help the Iranian people stay " one step ahead of the Iranian regime . "
Lieberman introduced the bill with Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham .
McCain said the proposed legislation would authorize funds to ensure Iranians have the software and other tools to evade government censorship and surveillance online .
The legislation would also authorize VOA 's Persian service to make permanent an additional hour of programming that was added to cover the post-election violence .
More funding would also be provided to the U.S. government-sponsored Radio Farda to boost the broadcaster 's short-wave radio and satellite capacity .
Forensic experts have concluded work on a mass grave in northwestern Bosnia-Herzegovina , exhuming 454 bodies .
An official , Esad Bajramovic , of the Commission on Missing Persons in Bosnia 's Muslim-Croat Federation says documents found in the village of Kevljani near the town of Prijedor indicate the victims were Muslim and Croat residents of the area .
He says many of the victims are believed to have been inmates of the notorious Serb-run Omarska and Keraterm prison camps in the Prijedor area .
The victims are believed to have been buried in other areas then moved to Kevljani .
United Nations forensic experts have recovered more than 16,000 bodies from more than 300 mass graves in Bosnia .
More than 200,000 people were killed in the Bosnian conflict of the early 1990s .
Lawyers get a lot of unjust criticism .
I would remind you that it is not right to condemn a whole profession just because of 350,000 bad apples .
A published report says the United States has been flying drones over Iran for almost a year , looking for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and detect weaknesses in air defenses .
In Sunday 's editions , The Washington Post quotes three U.S. officials as saying the U.S. military has been launching the unmanned surveillance flights from Iraq .
There has been no U.S. comment on the report .
An Iranian spokesman Sunday again warned the United States not to attack its nuclear facilities .
He also rejected a European proposal aimed at restricting Tehran 's development of nuclear fuel .
Iran has said in the past it would stop plans to build a heavy water nuclear reactor , which can be used to make nuclear weapons-grade material as well as for nuclear energy .
But Sunday in Tehran , a foreign ministry spokesman said Iran will go forward with the heavy water reactor and will not replace it under any circumstances .
Officials in Indian Kashmir say at least two soldiers and six suspected militants have been killed during a clash in the Himalayan region .
Officials say at least one soldier was also wounded in Saturday 's clash 220 kilometers north of Jammu , the winter capital of Indian Kashmir .
Authorities say the suspected militants were trying to sneak into the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir when the fighting began .
Kashmiri militant groups have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has killed tens of thousands of people .
Thousands of protesters have demonstrated outside a Philippine army camp , where U.S. soldiers and Philippine troops have begun joint military exercises .
Demonstrators in the town of Carmen on the southern island of Mindanao chanted anti-U.S. slogans Tuesday and demanded that American troops leave the area .
U.S. soldiers will also take part in the Philippines ' annual war games , to be held next month on Jolo island in the southern Philippines .
Jolo is where the al-Qaida-linked militant group Abu Sayyaf has carried out bombings , kidnappings and killings of foreigners in recent years .
Philippine law prohibits American troops from joining any combat operations with Philippine forces .
Security for the war games will be tight , to protect the soldiers from attacks by rebels .
In addition to military training , troops will carry out humanitarian missions to try to boost support among Jolo 's residents .
U.S. weather forecasters say Tropical Storm Ernesto has formed over the Caribbean and is heading toward Jamaica and the Cayman Islands .
The National Hurricane Center thinks the storm could strengthen in coming days and is on track to enter the Gulf of Mexico next week .
The center is urging Jamaica and the Cayman Islands to monitor the threats posed by Ernesto , the fifth named storm of the season .
Earlier Friday , Tropical Storm Debby weakened over the Atlantic .
The National Hurricane Center in Miami says Debby is about 2,200 kilometers northwest of the Cape Verde Islands , with winds near 65 kilometers per hour .
It says no significant change in strength is expected over the next day .
The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that are n't produced in " significant quantities " in the U.S. , the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions .
The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. for changes in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations .
Previously , watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment .
Timex had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches , covered by 58 different U.S. tariff classifications .
The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories , but turned down such treatment for other types of watches " because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands . "
Timex is a major U.S. producer and seller of watches , including low-priced battery-operated watches assembled in the Philippines and other developing nations covered by the U.S. tariff preferences .
U.S. trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president 's action .
Imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $ 37.3 million in 1988 , a relatively small share of the $ 1.5 billion in U.S. watch imports that year , according to an aide to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills .
Germany , France and Lithuania are the latest European countries to congratulate Viktor Yushchenko on his victory in the Ukrainian presidential election .
In a letter to Mr. Yushchenko Tuesday , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder expressed optimism that Ukraine will continue what he called its transition toward the rule of law and a market economy .
Lithuanian President Viktor Adamkus congratulated Mr. Yushchenko in a telephone conversation .
In Paris , the foreign ministry said France and its European Union partners are determined to support democracy and modernization in Ukraine .
Meanwhile , Russia has questioned the objectivity of monitors for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe .
That organization characterized last month 's presidential election re-run as flawed , while saying that Sunday 's poll vastly improved upon the last vote .
Russia backed Mr. Yushchenko 's opponent .
Witnesses in Somalia say gunmen have killed the head of an orphanage near the capital , Mogadishu .
Abdikadir Yusuf Kariye was shot dead by unidentified assailants late Wednesday in the town of Lafoole .
Reuters news agency reports that Kariye 's orphanage is home to 370 children .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the killing .
Attacks on aid workers in Somalia have forced some relief agencies to suspend their operations , endangering hundreds of thousands of people who rely on food aid and medical aid .
The United Nations has warned of a possible humanitarian catastrophe in Somalia , which has not had a functioning central government in 17 years .
Indonesia 's military has started the final phase of troop withdrawals from Aceh province , as part of a peace accord to end a 30-year-long separatist insurgency .
An army spokesman said Tuesday 1,600 troops were being withdrawn , and more would follow next week .
Indonesia began the pullout a day after rebels from the Free Aceh Movement surrendered their final batch of weapons .
The peace agreement calls for Indonesian soldiers to leave Aceh , in parallel with militants handing over weapons to international monitors .
Under the deal , only 14,000 Indonesian soldiers are allowed to remain in Aceh after the military completes its last withdrawal .
Indonesia and the rebels signed the truce in August in a bid to help Aceh recover from last December 's devastating tsunami .
A Seoul-based human rights group says North Korea has executed 70 defectors who were captured in China and repatriated .
The private Commission to Help North Korean Refugees cited informants in the North as saying the executions were carried out to set an example for others thinking about fleeing .
The group said in a statement Friday that eight or nine defectors were executed last month in public to discourage other people from fleeing to China .
South Korean officials have not confirmed the report .
China is North Korea 's only important ally and by treaty returns North Koreans , who Beijing regards as illegal immigrants and not as refugees .
More than 100,000 North Koreans are believed to be hiding in China .
Sri Lankan officials say suspected Tamil Tiger rebels have detonated a mine in northern Sri Lanka , killing two sailors and wounding another .
Officials say the attack occurred Saturday , on the northern Jaffna peninsula .
In a separate incident Saturday , unidentified attackers in the eastern town of Batticaloa hurled a grenade into the parking area of a compound occupied by truce monitors , damaging vehicles but causing no injuries .
A spokeswoman for the monitoring mission says the attack was the first targeting the monitors since a 2002 cease-fire .
The unarmed monitors are all from Scandinavian countries .
The explosion came hours after the monitors reprimanded Tamil Tiger rebels and government forces for an increase in violence .
Sri Lanka 's government says at least 69 members of its security forces have been killed by rebels since early December .
News reports from Uzbekistan say sporadic gunfire has continued in areas along the Kyrgyz border , following Friday 's military crackdown against protesters in the city of Andijan .
The Associated Press quoted residents as saying several soldiers and civilians were killed when clashes erupted Sunday in two border villages , Teshiktosh and Karasu .
Earlier reports said as many as 500 people were killed when security forces fired into a crowd of demonstrators in Andijan on Friday .
But Uzbek President Islam Karimov said the death toll was much lower .
He blamed the bloodshed on Islamic radicals trying to overthrow the government .
Several countries , including the United States , have called for restraint .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw called the Andijan crackdown a clear abuse of human rights .
A European Space Agency probe has completed a three-year mission to test deep space technologies by making a controlled crash on the moon .
The SMART-1 probe hit the lunar surface at 0542 UTC Sunday on a volcanic plain called the Lake of Excellence at a speed of about 7,200 kilometers per hour .
It had orbited the moon for the past 14 months .
Mission manager Gerhard Schwehm calls Europe 's first mission to the moon " a great success . "
The probe 's main mission was to test a solar-electric propulsion system the European Space Agency hopes to use for future interplanetary missions .
SMART-1 also carried miniaturized scientific instruments to examine the lunar surface .
SMART stands for Small Mission for Advanced Research and Technology .
The craft was launched in September of 2003 , and began orbiting the moon in November of 2004 .
Cuban President Raul Castro is visiting Venezuela on his first international trip as leader of the communist nation .
Venezuela 's socialist president , Hugo Chavez , welcomed Mr. Castro Saturday at the Caracas airport .
This is President Castro 's first official foreign trip since February , when the 77-year-old took charge from his ailing older brother , Fidel Castro .
The two leaders will visit the tomb of South American independence icon Simon Bolivar today and later hold talks on a variety of issues .
Venezuela and Cuba have increased cooperation on energy and oil production .
Venezuela is a critical trade partner for the Caribbean island nation , which imports nearly 100,000 barrels of oil per day from Venezuela .
Today 's visit comes ahead of a summit in Brazil next week , where Latin American and Caribbean leaders will gather for talks .
Cambodian authorities have detained a fifth suspect in the 12-year-old kidnapping and murder case of two men who were clearing land mines .
Former Khmer Rouge fighters abducted Christopher Howes of Bristol , England , and his interpreter Huon Huot along with other members of a team removing land mines near Cambodia 's Angor Wat temple in 1996 .
Most of the team was released , but evidence later showed Howes and Huot were executed in rebel-held territory .
Cambodian authorities took 52-year-old Puth Lim into custody and charged him in the case Friday .
Five other former Khmer Rouge fighters also face charges which could carry a life sentence if convicted .
A new U.S. opinion survey shows eight out of 10 Americans believe the country is going in the wrong direction .
The Washington Post-ABC News poll also indicates Democrats hold a 21 percentage point advantage over Republicans as the party better equipped to handle the country 's problems .
In a hypothetical general election match-up , Democratic Party candidate Senator Barack Obama leads presumed Republican nominee John McCain by 51-to-44 percent .
As the Democratic Party nears the end of its presidential primaries , the national poll shows Obama has a 12-point advantage over Senator Hillary Clinton as the party 's choice for its nomination .
The poll says Americans cite the economy and employment as their top voting issue , followed by the Iraq war , healthcare and fuel prices .
The poll of more than 1,100 adults , conducted from May 8 - 11 , has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points .
I was very lonely when I was a child .
I only had two imaginary friends ...
And they would only play with each other .
There are less than three months until the election , an election that will decide the next President of the United States .
The man elected will be the president of all Americans , not just the Democrats or the Republicans .
To show our solidarity as Americans , let 's all get together and show each other our support for the candidate of our choice .
It 's time that we all came together , Democrats and Republicans alike .
If you support the policies and character of President George W. Bush , please drive with your headlights on during the day .
If you support John Kerry , please drive with your headlights off at night .
A top U.S. diplomat is in Pakistan for talks with the country 's leaders on the fight against terrorism and the situation in neighboring Afghanistan .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia Richard Boucher arrived in the Pakistani capital , Islamabad , Wednesday for two days of meetings .
Boucher is meeting with Foreign Minister Khurshid Kasuri , President Pervez Musharraf and other key members of government .
Talks are also expected to focus on recent political developments in Pakistan .
President Musharraf is trying to maintain cooperation with Washington in the fight against terrorism while managing opposition to his government by Islamist hardliners .
A boat accident in Bangladesh has killed at least 37 people , most of them women and children .
Authorities say many of the male passengers were able to swim ashore .
Local officials say the boat capsized on the Surma river in northeastern Bangladesh late Saturday after colliding with a cargo ship .
Officials say at least 80 people were on board the boat .
Officials say the area where the boat went down , in the Sunamganj district about 240 kilometers northeast of Dhaka , is in one of the most remote parts of the country , making it difficult for additional help to reach the site .
Bangladesh has more than 200 rivers .
Boat accidents are common due to lax safety regulations .
Lawmakers on Cyprus have ratified the European Union treaty , despite opposition from the communist party of President Dimitris Christofias .
The Mediterranean island-nation Thursday became the 20th EU state to ratify the treaty , after 31 lawmakers out of 49 present in Nicosia voted in favor .
The charter is aimed at streamlining EU bureaucracy and making it easier for the European Commission to enact policy .
The Cyprus vote comes less than a month after Irish voters rejected the treaty in a referendum .
All 27 nations must ratify the treaty for it to take effect .
Advocates say it remains unclear whether the charter can be salvaged after the Irish defeat .
The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency says al-Qaida is fully capable of building and detonating a radioactive dirty bomb in the United States and other Western nations .
In its annual report on proliferation threats released to lawmakers Tuesday , the CIA said al-Qaida 's stated desire to carry out attacks using chemical , biological or nuclear materials is one of the agency 's highest concerns .
The CIA said any attack would probably be on a small scale , using improvised delivery devices and easily obtainable toxins or radiological substances .
It warned that multiple , simultaneous attacks could kill hundreds of people and cause widespread panic .
The report also says the CIA remains convinced Iran is pursuing a clandestine nuclear weapons program , and North Korea may have a nuclear-capable missile able to reach the United States .
North Korea says its Catholic community has organized religious services in memory of Pope John Paul .
The official news agency , KCNA , on Tuesday quotes Samuel Jang Jae On , described as head of the country 's Catholic association , as saying North Korean Catholics are deeply saddened by the pontiff 's passing .
The agency says Mr. Jang sent the Vatican a message of condolence .
North Korea is widely described as one of the world 's most repressive political regimes .
It is not clear how many Catholics live in the Communist nation and to what extent they can practice their religion .
Kuwaiti television reports the kidnappers in Iraq of American journalist Jill Carroll are threatening to kill her if their demands are not met by February 26 .
Al-Rai television Friday quoted sources close to the kidnappers as saying the abductors have set the deadline .
The militants holding Carroll previously had demanded that all Iraqi women prisoners be freed .
Earlier Friday , at least eight people died and more than 20 were wounded in a Baghdad car bombing near a Sunni Muslim mosque .
Officials in Iraq also certified results of the December 15 elections , confirming the near majority of parliament seats won by Shi'ite religious parties .
According to the results , the dominant Shi'ite coalition , the United Iraqi Alliance , won 128 seats in the 275-member parliament .
A Sudanese analyst says the late rebel leader John Garang was a symbol of the struggle for greater federalism in the country .
Lecturer John Gai Yoh of the University of South Africa ( UNISA ) in Pretoria credits the leader of the Sudanese Liberation Movement with creating a campaign that included allies beyond his base in the south .
Mr. Yoh notes that his vision materialized with the comprehensive peace agreement signed last January between the former SPLA rebels and the government in Khartoum .
Analyst John Gai Yoh predicts that the SPLA will continue to democratize : it has created a new SPLA parliament for the south and has named a new five-man military panel to lead the movement .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has fired three top security officials after militants broke the ceasefire he reached with Israel and fired mortars at Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Abbas dismissed the men , including security chief Abdel Razek Majaidie , hours after Hamas militants fired the mortars .
No one was wounded in the shelling , which Hamas said was a response to Israeli gunfire that killed a Palestinian man Wednesday in Gaza .
Despite the violence , Israeli and Palestinian officials met late Thursday to discuss security issues .
Meanwhile , a deadly shootout was also reported at a Palestinian jail in Gaza City .
Palestinian sources say at least three people described as Israeli collaborators were killed when dozens of masked gunmen stormed a jailhouse and set free several prisoners .
The nuclear cooperation pact between India and the United States has sparked a mixed reaction in Washington and abroad .
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Mohamed ElBaradei praised the agreement , saying it would bring India closer as an important partner in the non-proliferation group of countries .
But some U.S. lawmakers criticized the deal , saying the agreement that could give India access to U.S. civilian nuclear technology would undermine the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
India has not signed the treaty , which restricts the sharing of some nuclear technology with non-member nations , and drew widespread international criticism for conducting nuclear weapons tests as recently as 1998 .
Full details of the nuclear cooperation pact have not been released , but the agreement must still be approved by Congress before taking effect .
President Bush acknowledged Thursday that hard work still needs to be done to gain the necessary approval in Congress .
Ethiopian security forces say they have foiled what they describe as a terrorist plot by a group linked to the country 's main opposition party .
A statement released through state media says authorities arrested a group that was planning attacks in the capital , Addis Ababa .
The statement says the group planned to target government officials and institutions .
Ethiopian authorities say they also seized bombs , explosives and small arms related to the plot .
The statement did not say how many people were arrested or explain how the alleged group is linked to the opposition Coalition for Unity and Democracy .
Leaders of the party were not available for comment .
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi has repeatedly accused the opposition of conspiring to incite violence and seeking to overthrow him .
The government has charged at least 129 opposition leaders , journalists and others with treason and planning to commit genocide .
Military officials in Iraq say a U.S. soldier was killed and nine others wounded Saturday when Iraqi insurgents attacked an Army patrol in central Baghdad .
The U.S. military says the unit came under what it called a coordinated attack of roadside bombs , small arms fire and rocket-propelled grenades .
Earlier , Iraqi insurgents attacked a police station in the Azamiyah district in northwest Baghdad , killing at least three policemen .
Clashes also broke out between gunmen and Iraqi security forces in Baghdad 's Amiriyah district .
Saturday 's violence came a day after Iraqi forces and U.S. soldiers raided a Sunni Muslim mosque in Baghdad known for its anti-American agitation and support for the former regime of Saddam Hussein .
Two people were killed during Friday 's raid and several others were arrested .
The European Union opened membership talks with Turkey early Tuesday , after settling last-minute objections by Austria .
EU foreign ministers ended 30 hours of heated emergency meetings late Monday in Luxembourg with Austrian officials withdrawing Vienna 's demand that the EU retain the option of offering Turkey a limited partnership .
Turkey had rejected the option .
Austria 's cooperation paved the way for all 25 EU member-states to agree on a negotiating framework for the membership process , which is expected to take about 10 years .
A brief ceremony to officially open the talks took place shortly after midnight Tuesday in Luxembourg .
Talks had been scheduled to open Monday .
If accepted , Turkey would be the first country with a majority Muslim population to join the European Union .
It has been an associate member of the bloc since 1963 .
Hong Kong says it had a record-setting 268 new cases of HIV infection in 2004 .
Dr. S. S. Lee , a consultant for the territory 's Health Department , says increased traffic between Hong Kong and China is partly to blame for the rise in HIV cases .
China is one of many east Asian nations with a growing AIDS crisis .
Dr. Lee says the majority of the new HIV cases came from sexual transmission , while a smaller number contracted the virus from contaminated needles .
However , the number of AIDS cases dropped from 56 in 2003 to 49 last year .
Dr. Lee says an estimated 3,000 people in Hong Kong either have HIV or AIDS .
Askar Akayev Kyrgyzstan 's parliament has failed to gather enough lawmakers to formally accept President Askar Akayev 's resignation , technically leaving the deposed leader in power .
The letter of resignation was to have been presented to the 75-member legislature Tuesday .
Deputies also planned to watch a resignation speech videotaped by Mr. Akayev in Moscow , but the parliamentary delegation that traveled to the Russian capital failed to show up .
Officials say the parliament session has been rescheduled for Wednesday .
In a sign of how unstable Kyrgyzstan remains , a top anti-corruption officer was gunned down early Tuesday outside his house in the southern city of Osh .
Japan says it wants safety guarantees for its players and fans when its national soccer ( football ) team travels to North Korea for a World Cup qualifying match in June .
Japan 's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda says it is a necessary precondition for any international match that players can play safely and spectators can be protected .
Japanese concerns were raised by scenes of mob violence at a match in Pyongyang between Iran and North Korea on Wednesday .
The game was televised and cameras showed the North Korean spectators throwing bottles , cans and seats at players and officials on the field .
Riot police had to clear a path for the victorious Iranian players to reach their team bus .
The violence at the game was a rare occurrence in the tightly controlled North Korean state .
The United Nations ' top communications agency has called on Iran to stop jamming international satellite broadcasts .
The International Telecommunication Union said Friday interfering with foreign satellite signals is forbidden .
The agency stopped short of blaming the Iranian government , but indicated the source of the jamming was coming from Iranian soil .
The ITU released the statement after receiving complaints from France on behalf of satellite provider Eutelsat .
Eutelsat claims Iran blocked Persian broadcasts by the Voice of America and the BBC after June of last year , when a disputed presidential election in Iran sparked mass anti-government protests .
The European Union has also condemned the satellite jamming .
The U.N. agency does not have a means to force Iran to stop the satellite disruptions .
Officials in Sierra Leone say at least 200 people are missing and feared drowned after a boat capsized off the coast of the west African nation .
Eight people have been confirmed dead and 37 have been rescued as officials continue to search for survivors .
Transportation authorities have been unable to determine the exact number of passengers .
Police said the boat , carrying a large number of schoolchildren , turned over late Wednesday in a heavy storm south of the capital , Freetown .
Authorities have not said what caused the accident .
However , maritime accidents are not uncommon in Sierra Leone where boats are often overloaded and safety standards are frequently lacking or ignored .
Insurgents in Iraq fired a barrage of mortar rounds into central Baghdad
Thursday , killing at least one person and wounding several others .
Police say some of the mortars landed in the Green Zone -- the heavily fortified enclave that houses Iraqi government offices and several foreign embassies .
Last week , a mortar attack on the Green Zone killed four employees of a British security company .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military is planning to temporarily increase the number of American troops in Iraq to bolster security ahead of Iraq 's January election .
The Defense Department said Wednesday the size of U.S. forces in Iraq will increase to 150,000 from its current level of 138,000 .
Iraq 's interim government has rejected calls from some Sunni parties to postpone the vote because of security concerns .
Egyptian officials say they have postponed reconciliation talks scheduled next week with Palestinian factions .
Authorities did not say when the Egyptian-sponsored talks would be held .
Earlier Saturday , Hamas officials said they plan to boycott the talks with rival Fatah .
Officials said Palestinian President and Fatah leader Mahmoud Abbas continues to crack down on Hamas in the Fatah-controlled West Bank .
Late last month , Mr. Abbas deployed hundreds of security officers to the West Bank city of Hebron .
Egypt invited Hamas and Fatah , along with smaller Palestinian factions , to a meeting in Cairo on November ninth to settle the conflict between the two larger groups .
The factions have been divided since Hamas militants drove Fatah fighters out of Gaza in June 2007 and seized control of the territory .
India has announced plans to pay an additional $ 160 million to victims of a 1984 anti-Sikh riot , in which more than 3,000 Sikhs were killed .
The Indian government said Thursday the families of those killed will receive a total of nearly $ 7,800 , while those injured in the riots will receive a total of $ 2,800 .
The decision to increase the funds given to riot victims came after a report released in August said some Congress party leaders may have helped incite the riots .
The riots were sparked by the 1984 assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , by Sikh members of her security team .
Victims and their families say the compensation is not enough , and have demanded any politician who helped incite the riot be brought to justice .
An exhibition is opening at the Imperial War Museum in London , marking the centenary of the birth of writer Ian Fleming , the man who created the world 's most famous secret agent , James Bond .
Paul Burge has the story on the exhibit , titled " For Your Eyes Only . "
Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in the Hague for the EuropeanUnion-Russian Summit Thursday where the disputed Ukrainian presidential election is expected to top the agenda .
EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has said the 25-member bloc will make it clear to the Russian President that the EU is not " satisfied " with Ukraine 's disputed election .
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych -- who was backed by Mr. Putin -- has been declared the winner of Sunday 's voting , but the EU is rejecting the results because of allegations of widespread voting fraud .
On other issues , EU leaders say they will call on Russia to sign and ratify border agreements with Estonia and Latvia , and urge it to seek a political settlement in war-torn Chechnya .
Israel says it will not negotiate with Syria as long as Damascus supports terrorist groups , brushing off a Syrian offer of peace talks .
A spokeswoman for Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert Tuesday also criticized Syria for pro-Hezbollah statements made by its foreign minister , Walid Moualem during the month-long Israel-Hezbollah war .
Syria and Iran are believed to be key suppliers of weapons and money to Hezbollah .
In an interview broadcast Monday , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said he is ready to hold talks with Israel but that an impartial arbiter should mediate between the two sides .
The Syrian leader said he doubts the U.S. can play that role .
He said Washington lacks the will and the vision to pursue peace in the Middle East .
Talks between Syria and Israel broke down in 2000 .
Syria has demanded that Israel return the entire Golan Heights .
Israel seized the Golan Heights in the 1967 Six-Day War .
The U.N. World Food Program is giving emergency assistance to the Cuban government .
The WFP announced Tuesday that it will help feed about two million people at a cost of nearly $ 6 million .
The aid package is intended to help Cuba recover from last month 's devastation from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike .
During the next six months , WFP will provide food rations , including rice , beans , vegetable oil , canned fish and more .
The WFP will also supply temporary food storage warehouses and liquid gas stoves to people who lost their cooking facilities in the storms .
Sweden 's Nobel Foundation begins announcing winners of the annual Nobel Prize awards on Monday in Oslo , Norway .
Prizes for medicine , physics , chemistry and literature will be announced before the prestigious Peace Prize is revealed Friday .
A separate prize for economics will be announced October 10 .
It was instituted in 1968 by the Bank of Sweden in memory of the founder of the Nobel Prize , Swedish philanthropist Alfred Nobel .
Winners receive their awards , including a check worth $ 1.3 million , at a banquet on December 10 .
That is the anniversary of Mr. Nobel 's death in 1896 .
According to his will , a five-member committee elected by the Norwegian parliament chooses the Peace Prize laureate , while Swedish scientific and literary groups choose the other winners .
The first Nobel Prizes were given in 1901 .
Ceremonies in the U.S. have marked the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks with moments of silence and the reading of victims ' names .
Bells tolled and bagpipes played in New York at the moment eight years ago when the first of two hijacked airliners slammed into the World Trade Center .
President Barack Obama took part in a ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House , while Vice President Joe Biden spoke at the service in New York .
Nearly 3,000 people died on September 11 , 2001 , in a coordinated al-Qaeda attack involving four hijacked planes .
One of them crashed into the Pentagon , where Mr. Obama plans to attend a wreathlaying on Friday .
Services are also planned in Shanksville , Pennsylvania , the crash site of United Airlines Flight 93 .
That aircraft went down after passengers fought hijackers and presumably stopped the plane from hitting its intended target .
One computer company is working to add solar power to its portable devices , while another is developing a touch screen for the next version of its widely used software .
Macrumors.com , a website that closely watches developments at the Apple computer company , says the firm has asked for a patent on adding a solar panel to generate electricity for its portable phones and computers .
What is new is the idea of putting the solar panel beneath the devices ' display screens and touch screens , saving space .
Apple 's competitor , Microsoft , is developing a touch screen for the next version of its Windows software .
The touch screen could take over some of the work now done by a keyboard or computer mouse .
When talking about paintings and contemporary art , names such as Pablo Picasso , Georgia O'Keeffe , Vincent Van Gogh and others often come to mind .
But , as we are about to show you , there is a whole body of artwork on Africa , by European and African artists that is largely unknown .
Primimoda Gallery , located in the heart of Washington , is where you will find this art .
Ndimyake Mwakalyelye tells us more .
The world 's biggest maker of computer chips is investing more than $ 1 billion in India over the next five years .
The investment was announced Monday by Intel Chairman .
Much of the money will go to expand Intel 's research and development center in Bangalore .
That operation already employs 2,800 people .
Intel officials say around $ 250 million is going into a fund to stimulate local technology innovation , particularly in technology oriented service companies that target overseas markets .
Intel has been operating in India for a decade , and has already invested about $ 700 million there .
Mr. Barrett says India is one of the world 's " leading technology centers " and he expects this investment to help the country grow further .
Morocco 's market economy benefits from the country 's relatively low labor costs and proximity to Europe , which aid key areas of the economy such as agriculture , light manufacturing , tourism , and remittances .
Morocco is also the world 's largest exporter of phosphate , which has long provided a source of export earnings and economic stability .
Economic policies pursued since 2003 by King MOHAMMED VI have brought macroeconomic stability to the country with generally low inflation , improved financial performance , and steady progress in developing the service and industrial sectors .
In 2006 , Morocco entered a Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) with the US , and in 2008 entered into an advanced status in its 2000 Association Agreement with the EU .
However , poverty , illiteracy , and unemployment rates remain high .
In response to these challenges , King MOHAMMED in 2005 launched a National Initiative for Human Development , a $ 2 billion program aimed at alleviating poverty and underdevelopment by expanding electricity to rural areas and replacing urban slums with public and subsidized housing , among other policies .
Morocco 's trade and budget deficits widened in 2010 , and reducing government spending and adapting to sluggish economic growth in Europe will be challenges in 2011 .
Morocco 's long-term challenges include improving education and job prospects for young Moroccans , closing the disparity in wealth between the rich and the poor , confronting corruption , and expanding and diversifying exports beyond phosphates and low-value-added products .
The new head of the Palestinian Fatah movement has threatened to expel popular leader Marwan Barghouti unless he withdraws from the Palestinian presidential race .
Barghouti is seen as the only serious challenger to the official Fatah candidate , former prime minister Mahmoud Abbas .
Fatah chief Faruq Qaddumi says any member who goes against the group 's decisions should resign and have his membership cancelled .
The 45-year-old Barghouti is currently serving five life terms in an Israeli prison for planning suicide attacks .
Mr. Barghouti , who has denied involvement in the attacks , filed papers for the January 9th presidential race last Wednesday .
The winner of the race will succeed the late Yasser Arafat and lead the Palestinians as world powers try to revive the Middle East peace process .
Although known to Arab and Malay sailors as early as the 10th century , Mauritius was first explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch - who named it in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU - in the 17th century .
The French assumed control in 1715 , developing the island into an important naval base overseeing Indian Ocean trade , and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane .
The British captured the island in 1810 , during the Napoleonic Wars .
Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base , and later an air station , playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations , as well as the collection of signals intelligence .
Independence from the UK was attained in 1968 .
A stable democracy with regular free elections and a positive human rights record , the country has attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned one of Africa 's highest per capita incomes .
Recent poor weather , declining sugar prices , and declining textile and apparel production , have slowed economic growth , leading to some protests over standards of living in the Creole community .
Afghan officials say three police officers have been killed in two different suicide bombings Tuesday .
Authorities say one officer was killed when a bomber rammed a police car in the southern province of Paktika , near the border with Pakistan .
They say the other bombing took place in the relatively quiet province of Kunduz , when a bomber detonated his car while being followed by police .
That blast killed two policemen .
Separately , government officials said unidentified gunmen kidnapped two workers from the ministry of rural development .
That abduction occurred Monday in the western province of Nimroz .
A new law comes into effect in Brazil Sunday , allowing the country 's air force to shoot down planes suspected of smuggling drugs .
Drug traffickers frequently fly over Brazil while smuggling drugs from neighboring Colombia .
Bogota also has a similar shoot-down policy .
Brazilian officials say air force pilots must follow an eight-step procedure before shooting at a suspected drug plane .
Critics say that despite those steps , the chance of human error remains and innocent people could be killed .
Such a mistake occurred in Peru in 2001 , and an American missionary and her child were killed .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says fighting in two southern provinces has left four suspected militants dead and two Afghan police wounded .
A U.S. military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jerry O'Hara says three insurgents were killed and two Afghan police officers wounded during a clash Friday in the Deh Rawood district of Uruzgan province .
One fighter was captured , along with a light machine gun and a rocket-propelled grenade .
The spokesman said that , on the same day , south of Kabul , one militant was killed when a group of insurgents attacked a U.S. and Afghan military convoy .
There has been an upsurge of violence in Afghanistan ahead of the September 18 parliamentary elections .
Hundreds of people have died in militant-related violence so far this year .
An Ethiopian government spokesman denies that a reported rebel attack said to have killed 140 soldiers ever took place .
The spokesman , Zemedkun Tekle , issued the denial Sunday after media reports said the Ogaden National Liberation Front had claimed to have carried out the deadly attack Saturday in southeastern Ethiopia near Wardheer .
A purported statement from the group received by some news organizations said about a thousand rebels took part in the attack and seized ammunition along with military hardware .
The government spokesman says there was no attack , and that the rebel group is not in a position to carry out such an attack .
Rebels have been fighting for more autonomy for ethnic Somalis in the eastern region of Ogaden bordering Somalia .
Following years of debate and delay , Germany has dedicated a national memorial to the six million Jews killed by the Nazis during World War II .
Dignitaries and survivors of the Nazi death camps dedicated the " Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe " Tuesday in Berlin .
The speaker of Germany 's lower house of parliament , Wolfgang Thierse , said the memorial will keep the memory of Holocaust victims and of Nazi crimes alive .
The two-hectare memorial , designed by New York architect Peter Eisenman , consists of 2,711 unadorned concrete slabs and an underground research center Experts say the memorial evokes the rigid discipline and order of the Nazi killing machine .
First proposed in the late 1980s , the memorial was only recently completed because of arguments over its size , design and whether it should honor non-Jewish Holocaust victims .
It will open to the public on Thursday .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has ordered disciplinary action against senior U.N. officials who worked on the oil-for-food program in Iraq .
Mr. Annan said in a statement Thursday a report about alleged corruption in the U.N. program has turned up " extremely troubling evidence of wrongdoing , " and he pledged that no one involved would be shielded from prosecution .
The independent report , released Thursday , concluded that the head of the oil-for-food program , Benon Sevan , seriously undermined the integrity of the United Nations by his conduct .
U.N. disciplinary proceedings have begun against Mr. Sevan and another senior official , Joseph Stephanides .
Both Mr. Sevan and Mr. Stephanides are Cypriot nationals .
Critics say billions of dollars were siphoned away from the oil-for-food program , which was devised after the first Gulf War in an attempt to help Iraq 's impoverished civilian population .
Rebels and government forces in Ivory Coast began withdrawing heavy weapons from the front line Thursday , complying with a new peace deal to end tensions in the divided nation .
The pullback , expected to last four days , includes all guns larger than 20 millimeters and short-range weaponry equal to or larger than 60 millimeters , including mortars .
Anti-tank weapons will remain in place .
One rebel fighter told VOA he was happy to see the repeatedly postponed disarmament process begin , adding that he hopes to become a police officer once the two-year-old conflict is finally over .
Several peace deals have failed to take hold in Ivory Coast .
Rebels still hold huge swaths of territory in northern and western Ivory Coast , with the government firmly in control of the south .
The White House says President Bush will meet with his counterparts from Liberia and the Democratic Republic of Congo in Washington later this month .
A pair of statements released Friday said Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf will visit the White House October 18 , followed by Congolese President Joseph Kabila eight days later .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mrs. Sirleaf plan to discuss cooperation in the areas of education , reconstruction , trade , security and debt relief .
It says Mr. Bush and Mr. Kabila will focus on increasing cooperation on security sector reform and economic reconstruction in eastern Congo .
The Bush administration has been largely supportive of both countries ' governments since elections that brought Mrs. Sirleaf to power in 2005 and confirmed Mr. Kabila as Congo 's president last year .
Both countries are emerging from bloody civil wars that ruined much of their infrastructure .
Haiti 's chief elections official has fled the country after receiving threats following this month 's presidential elections .
Officials say Jacques Bernard flew to the United States on Sunday , a day after his farmhouse was ransacked .
Bernard was accused by some people who supported candidate Rene Preval of manipulating the vote count to prevent Preval from claiming an outright victory and avoid a runoff vote .
Preval was declared the winner last week in an internationally-brokered decision to divide 85,000 blank ballots proportionately among the candidates .
The European Union has imposed more sanctions on Burma .
The new sanctions , adopted at an EU foreign ministers ' meeting in Brussels , include an embargo on the import of timber , gems and metals from Burma .
They also extend a list of Burmese leaders and their relatives subject to a travel ban and assets freeze .
The EU foreign ministers urged Burma 's military government to enter into a " meaningful dialogue " that will lead to democracy .
They also called for the lifting of all restrictions on detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
Iran says it has agreed with Russia to increase the number of countries joining a plan for Tehran to carry out sensitive nuclear fuel work in Russia .
Speaking to reporters Saturday in Tehran , Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said possible locations for uranium enrichment are still under review .
Moscow 's idea to have Iran enrich uranium in facilities in Russia where the work can be closely monitored is seen as a way out of a growing crisis over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions .
The United States , China and the European Union support the proposal .
Meanwhile , the chief of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards , General Yahya Rahim Safavi , said Saturday his country would use ballistic missiles to defend itself if attacked .
President Bush told the CBS television network Friday he is open to all possible options for dealing with Iran , including military intervention .
But he said that would be the last option .
Pope John Paul II has included prayers for the victims of the Asian tsunami in his New Year 's Day Mass marking the Roman Catholic Church 's annual World Day of Peace .
Thousands of pilgrims attended the Pope 's outdoor Mass Saturday at the Vatican .
John Paul II also led a Mass for the tsunami victims in his private chapel overnight .
In his peace message , the pontiff called for greater cooperation among the world 's religions , and for promotion of peace through dialogue , justice and forgiveness .
He urged the world 's one billion Roman Catholics to , " win the fight over evil with the armies of love . "
President Bush has sent holiday greetings to all Muslims as they celebrate the Eid al-Adha religious festival .
In a statement issued Friday , Mr. Bush said Eid al-Adha is an important occasion to give thanks for blessings and to remember Abraham 's trust in a loving God .
Eid al-Adha , the festival of sacrifice , commemorates the willingness of the prophet Abraham to sacrifice his son in obedience to God .
According to scripture , Allah did not require Abraham to go through with the sacrifice .
Mr. Bush said Muslims would celebrate with friends and family , exchanging gifts and greetings , and engaging in worship through sacrifice and charity .
The president said America is a more hopeful nation because of the talents , generosity and compassion of Muslim citizens .
Twelve mine clearing workers are missing in eastern Afghanistan .
Authorities said Thursday that the workers of a local demining company disappeared while traveling through Paktia province .
The Reuters news agency quotes a Paktia official as saying insurgents abducted the 12 deminers .
In southern Afghanistan , NATO said two soldiers were killed and several others wounded by two separate bomb attacks Thursday .
It gave no other details .
On Wednesday , Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops killed more than 40 Taleban fighters during a 12-hour battle in southern Kandahar province .
The military says nearly 200 Taleban insurgents have been killed in fighting in the area in the past two weeks .
The Taleban were ousted from power in Afghanistan by a U.S.-led offensive in late 2001 .
However , Taleban fighters have regrouped in recent months to mount an increasingly bloody insurgency aimed at the U.S.-backed government in Kabul .
A topologist is a person who does n't know the difference between a coffee cup and a doughnut .
Terrorist mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has apparently surfaced in an audiotape on the Internet , seeking to further divide Iraq 's Sunnis and Shi'ites 10 days before national elections .
The 75-minute-long statement took aim at the country 's ascendant Shi'ites , who are expected to win a majority of seats in the transitional assembly .
In the tape , Zarqawi accuses their highest religious authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , of approving November 's U.S.-led invasion to crush insurgents hiding in the Sunni stronghold of Fallujah .
He also accuses Shi'ites of killing innocents in Fallujah , and claims they fought alongside 800 Israeli soldiers as well as Jordanian troops .
The authenticity of the tape has not been established .
Many of Fallujah 's residents fled ahead of November 's offensive .
The U.S. military said Thursday that the city is now completely reopened and a little more than half of its residents have returned .
The head of the United Nations refugee agency says relief efforts in earthquake-ravaged Pakistan should concentrate now on creating conditions for people to be able to withstand the harsh Himalayan winter .
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres made the remark Thursday during his visit to Pakistan 's quake zone .
The visit is aimed at reviewing relief operations and meeting with local leaders .
He said billions of dollars in aid pledges by donors must materialize before cold and hunger claim more lives .
While touring the devastated capital of Pakistani Kashmir , Muzaffarabad , Mr. Guterres also noted the time has come to repay the country for generously hosting millions of Afghan refugees .
His visit comes a day after Australian Prime Minister John Howard toured quake-hit areas and pledged nearly U.S. $ 37 miillion in additional relief .
At least five policemen have been killed in a militant attack on a security camp in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Local authorities say the attack occurred early Friday , in the border town of Sopore , about 50 kilometers north of Srinagar .
Police say the militants hurled grenades and fired indiscriminately as they stormed the camp .
It was not immediately clear how many rebels were involved in the attack .
The Pakistan-based rebel group Al-Mansoorain claimed responsibility for the attack .
Al-Mansoorain is one of more than a dozen Islamic militant groups fighting security forces in India 's portion of Kashmir for the region 's independence or for its merger with Pakistan .
American figure skater Michelle Kwan has pulled out of the Olympic Winter Games in Turin , Italy , dashing the superstar 's hopes to win the one prize that has eluded her over a long and prestigious career - an Olympic gold medal .
Kwan withdrew from the games early Sunday due to a hip muscle injury and recurring groin strain .
Kwan says taking herself off the team is the most difficult decision she has ever had to make .
The 25-year-old California native received a bye onto the Olympic team after missing the U.S. championships because of the groin injury .
Kwan has five world championships , nine U.S. titles , and silver and bronze Olympic medals .
Medals will be awarded in eight Olympic events Sunday , including the highly anticipated men 's Alpine skiing downhill race .
Norway leads the overall medal count with four , followed by Germany with two .
The discovery and exploitation of large oil and gas reserves have contributed to dramatic economic growth but fluctuating oil prices have produced huge swings in GDP growth in recent years .
Forestry and farming are also minor components of GDP .
Subsistence farming is the dominate form of livelihood .
Although pre-independence Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency earnings , the neglect of the rural economy under successive regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth ( the government has stated its intention to reinvest some oil revenue into agriculture ) .
A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF have been cut off since 1993 because of corruption and mismanagement .
The government has been widely criticized for its lack of transparency and misuse of oil revenues ; however , in 2010 , under Equatorial Guinea 's candidacy in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative , the government published oil revenue figures for the first time .
Undeveloped natural resources include gold , zinc , diamonds , columbite-tantalite , and other base metals .
Growth remained strong in 2008 , when oil production peaked , but slowed in 2009 - 10 , as the price of oil and the production level fell .
Albania , a formerly closed , centrally-planned state , is making the difficult transition to a more modern open-market economy .
Macroeconomic growth averaged around 6 % between 2004 - 08 , but declined to about 3 % in 2009 - 10 .
Inflation is low and stable .
The government has taken measures to curb violent crime , and recently adopted a fiscal reform package aimed at reducing the large gray economy and attracting foreign investment .
Remittances , a significant catalyst for economic growth have declined from 12-15 % of GDP to 9 % of GDP in 2009 , mostly from Albanians residing in Greece and Italy ; this helps offset the towering trade deficit .
The agricultural sector , which accounts for almost half of employment but only about one-fifth of GDP , is limited primarily to small family operations and subsistence farming because of lack of modern equipment , unclear property rights , and the prevalence of small , inefficient plots of land .
Energy shortages because of a reliance on hydropower , and antiquated and inadequate infrastructure contribute to Albania 's poor business environment and lack of success in attracting new foreign investment needed to expand the country 's export base .
FDI is among the lowest in the region , but the government has embarked on an ambitious program to improve the business climate through fiscal and legislative reforms .
The completion of a new thermal power plant near Vlore has helped diversify generation capacity , and plans to upgrade transmission lines between Albania and Montenegro and Kosovo would help relieve the energy shortages .
Also , with help from EU funds , the government is taking steps to improve the poor national road and rail network , a long-standing barrier to sustained economic growth .
Witnesses in Nepal say police have opened fire on a protest rally against King Gyanendra in the west of the country , wounding at least one person .
They say the incident took place Thursday in the town of Pokhara , as police tried to disperse the demonstrators .
The protest coincided with a nationwide strike called by opposition parties to protest the king 's plan for municipal elections .
The streets of the capital , Kathmandu , were deserted , and schools and businesses were closed around the country .
Riot police were patrolling to prevent the violence that has accompanied previous strikes .
The strike is aimed at stopping candidates from registering for February 8 elections , a process that began today .
Only a few candidates filed their nominations in Kathmandu in the first few hours .
The alliance of seven opposition groups says it will boycott the vote , because it would legitimize the king 's absolute rule .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has called for both his supporters and opponents to work with him as he embarks on his fifth presidential term .
He took the oath of office Tuesday before parliament and several foreign dignitaries , including Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
In a nationally televised speech , the 77-year-old leader pledged to continue a nascent program of political and economic reforms , and to improve the living standard of Egypt 's majority poor during his term , which runs through 2011 .
He also promised November 's legislative elections will be " free and fair , " after criticisms that September 's first multi-candidate presidential race was rife with voting irregularities .
Mr. Mubarak beat nine challengers , winning more than 88 percent of the vote .
A Norwegian aid group says it will shut down operations in Sudan 's Darfur region because of government interference .
The Norwegian Refugee Council says Sudan has suspended the group for a total of 210 days since mid-2004 .
The group 's secretary-general , Tomas Archer , says his workers can not operate when authorities suspend the group continuously and do not respond to repeated requests for dialogue .
The N.R.C. provides assistance at three large camps for internally displaced Sudanese .
The group says its departure will affect 300,000 people in South Darfur .
Sudanese officials are often suspicious of foreign aid agencies working in Darfur and they target groups that criticize government actions and policies .
Sudan continues to resist international pressure to allow a U.N. peacekeeping forces into the volatile region .
More than three years of fighting between rebels and government-backed militias has killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced over two million since early 2003 .
Tradition has it that the Vatican Post Office issues a special stamp upon the death of a pope .
Officials in Vatican City Saturday said the so-called " vacant see " stamp will carry an image only of two crossed keys .
The traditional image on Vatican stamps issued while a pope is alive contains both the keys as well as other papal symbols .
These special stamps are only valid during the so-called " interregnum , " or between the time of a pope 's death and when a new one is elected by a conclave of cardinals .
The last time the Vatican issued a vacant see stamp was in 1978 , when Pope John Paul I died .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has urged Afghan and coalition forces to use " extreme caution " as they root out Islamic militants .
In a statement Sunday , Mr. Karzai expressed concern over civilian deaths in recent weeks as a result of counter-terror operations in civilian areas .
He said that while his government is committed to combating terrorism , it is also responsible for safety of the Afghan people .
The statement comes two days after three civilians , including a woman and a child , were killed in a U.S. air strike against a suspected militant hideout .
Four suspected militants were also killed in the incident in central Uruzgan province .
Two more children were wounded and taken to a U.S. base in the southern city of Kandahar for treatment .
Israel has formally turned over the West Bank city of Jericho to Palestinian forces .
Israeli troops took down their national flag and dismantled a key checkpoint as Palestinian forces took up positions inside the city .
Top commanders from both sides resolved a last-minute hitch over paperwork and signed an agreement to formalize the transfer .
Israel still controls two checkpoints outside Jericho , but troops have relaxed security procedures to ease travel to the city .
Jericho is the first of five towns ( with Tulkarem , Qalqiliya , Ramallah , Bethlehem ) that Israel plans to turn over to Palestinian control .
Meanwhile , Israeli television reported that Jewish extremists plan to take over a disputed holy site in Jerusalem to try to sabotage Israel 's planned withdrawal from Gaza .
Also Wednesday in Cairo , Egyptian and Palestinian officials and Palestinian militant leaders are discussing a proposed one-year halt to Palestinian attacks on Israeli targets .
U.N. health officials and health ministers from several African countries are due to meet Wednesday in Geneva to discuss ways to stem rising polio numbers .
Ministers from Nigeria , Niger , Egypt , Burkina Faso , Ivory Coast , Sudan , the Central African Republic and Chad are due to take part in the talks .
The World Health Organization says the worldwide number of polio cases rose by more than 30 percent last year , to more than 1,170 .
The majority of cases were in Nigeria , India and Pakistan .
WHO efforts to eradicate the disease worldwide by the end of this year have been hampered by a months-long vaccine boycott in northern Nigeria , after opponents there said the vaccine was contaminated with infertility agents .
Polio attacks the nervous system , causing paralysis and sometimes death .
Economic activity consists primarily of subsistence farming and fishing .
The islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting , except for high-grade phosphate .
The potential for a tourist industry exists , but the remote location , a lack of adequate facilities , and limited air connections hinder development .
Under the original terms of the Compact of Free Association , the US provided $ 1.3 billion in grant aid during the period 1986 - 2001 ; the level of aid has been subsequently reduced .
The Amended Compact of Free Association with the US guarantees the Federated States of Micronesia ( FSM ) millions of dollars in annual aid through 2023 , and establishes a Trust Fund into which the US and the FSM make annual contributions in order to provide annual payouts to the FSM in perpetuity after 2023 .
The country 's medium-term economic outlook appears fragile due not only to the reduction in US assistance but also to the current slow growth of the private sector .
Israeli security officials say they re-arrested nuclear-whistle blower Mordechai Vanunu early Thursday .
Officials say Vanunu is suspected of giving unauthorized information to foreigners .
He was set free in April , after serving 18 years in prison for divulging classified information about Israel 's nuclear program to the London Sunday Times .
Under conditions of his release , Vanunu is still barred from leaving the country or discussing Israel 's nuclear program .
His contacts with foreigners also are restricted .
Iraqi officials say bombings in two parts of the country have killed at least 13 people , including seven in an attack against a senior Iraqi Kurdish official .
Police say a roadside bomb in eastern Diyala province Sunday hit a convoy carrying Mohammed Ramadan , a senior member of Iraq 's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan party .
Authorities say the blast killed five members of Ramadan 's family and two of his guards .
The bomb wounded at least four other people , including Ramadan .
Separately today , police say a car bomb attack killed six people and wounded 14 others in northern Baghdad .
Authorities say three policemen were among those wounded in the attack on a police patrol in the capital 's Shaab neighborhood .
Palestinian security officials say masked Palestinian police briefly stormed a government building in the Gaza Strip in anger over not receiving their salaries from the Hamas-led government .
Security officials say about 50 police officers sealed off the main road Saturday in the central Gaza town of Khan Younis .
They say the masked police surrounded a municipal government building , taking positions on the roof and firing in the air .
The protest is seen as a sign of discontent with the new Hamas-led government , which took office late last month .
The cash-strapped Palestinian Authority has not been able to pay salaries to some 140,000 government employees since March .
Western nations have cut off aid to the Palestinian government , demanding that Hamas renounce violence and recognize Israel .
The company supplying most of the electricity to the Gaza Strip says it will be forced to cut power Friday .
Gaza Generating Company chairman Rafik Malikha says Israel 's closing of a border crossing has prevented fuel shipments for the past two days .
All fuel deliveries come from Israel through the Nahal Oz crossing , which Malikha said had closed for security reasons .
Only one of the company 's four generators will be able to continue generating electricity until Sunday , when Malikha said all of the company 's fuel stocks would be exhausted .
His company runs the only power plant in the Gaza Strip , but some electricity is also supplied by Egypt and Israel 's electric company .
After the Hamas faction seized control of the Gaza Strip in June , Israel briefly shut all border crossings , but partially reopened them after U.N. aid agencies warned that Gaza was in danger of food shortages .
A suicide bomber in southeastern Afghanistan has killed at least three Afghan soldiers and a civilian .
Officials say the bomber detonated his explosives inside a car in Khost province Wednesday as soldiers were checking the vehicle .
At least three other people were wounded .
Authorities blame the Taleban .
Militants have carried out a wave of suicide bombings in Afghanistan 's south and east in recent weeks , killing dozens of people .
The Taleban has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks , and says it will continue its insurgency until foreign troops leave the country .
The United States has more than 18,000 troops in Afghanistan , and the Dutch parliament is to vote Thursday on whether to send more troops to the country as part of a NATO force .
Burma on Friday granted a permit to participate in upcoming elections to an opposition party that split from Aung San Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy .
The state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper said Saturday that the National Democratic Force will join 37 other new political parties and five existing groups in contesting elections later this year .
The military government has not yet set a date for the polls .
Aung San Suu Kyi 's NLD will not participate in the elections .
The party won the last election , held in 1990 by a landslide , but was never allowed to take power .
New election laws ban Aung San Suu Kyi from running for office .
The NLD has called the laws unfair and undemocratic .
A joint survey by the Associated Press and the Kyodo news service shows that a majority in both Japan and the United States disapprove of their government 's handling of the war in Iraq .
In both the United States and Japan , 55 percent of those surveyed disapprove of their government 's handling of Iraq .
Forty three percent of Americans said they approve , while 41 percent of Japanese voiced approval .
The remaining percentages in each country were not sure whether they approved or disapproved .
A former Rwandan military commander has been found guilty of taking part in the country 's 1994 genocide , and has been sentenced to 25 years in prison .
A United Nations tribunal Tuesday convicted Tharcisse Muvunyi of four counts of genocide and crimes against humanity .
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda said Muvunyi did nothing to stop his troops from killing hundreds of ethnic Tutsis in Butare province in April 1994 .
It said he also gave a speech inciting hatred against Tutsis .
Muvunyi 's lawyer , Taylor Williams , said he will file an appeal .
Earlier Tuesday , the court acquitted another Rwandan war crimes suspect , Jean Mpambara .
Judges said prosecutors failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mpambara , the former mayor of Rukara , was involved in the massacres .
Rwandan Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus during the 1994 genocide .
Justin Timberlake is launching his own record label .
The 26-year-old entertainer , who has sold more than 13 million copies of his first two solo albums , has established Tennman Records in a joint venture with the Interscope label .
He will serve as chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the company , which will be based in Los Angeles and distributed worldwide by Interscope Geffen A&M .
While some artists have already been signed to Tennman , a formal announcement offering details will be made in the coming weeks .
Justin Timberlake says " We are all excited about the talent we have to offer already on our roster , and I can not wait to introduce the world to my new discoveries . "
Protesters in Moscow have rallied against the war in Chechnya .
The Interfax news agency says up to 1,000 people took part in Saturday 's demonstration .
Russian forces have been fighting separatists in Chechnya for most of the past decade .
The conflict has devastated the southern republic .
Also , today marks the second anniversary of when Chechen separatists seized a crowded theater in Moscow , beginning a 60-hour crisis that claimed 129 lives .
Most of the fatalities were from the gas Russian authorities pumped into the theater during rescue operations .
Chechen separatists have been blamed for numerous terrorist attacks , including the seizing of a school in Beslan in September and the downing of two airliners in August .
Those attacks claimed more than 430 lives .
According to the American Heart Association , cardiac arrest occurs more than 900 times a day in the United States .
Almost half of these incidents are unexpected and occur in places other than a hospital .
In many cases , death can be prevented if medical help arrives quickly .
VOA 's Melinda Smith says a new study reveals that location where the victim is located can greatly influence survival .
Officials in Yemen say six Somalis have been arrested , including one suspected of having links with al-Qaida .
Officials say the men were arrested Thursday during a security raid more than 300 kilometers south of the capital , Sana'a .
The officials did not say what led to the arrests , or what the other suspects are accused of .
Yemen has attracted thousands of Somalis who cross the Gulf of Aden illegally to flee fighting at home .
A senior U.S. counter-terrorism official , Michael Leiter , said last month that Yemen is emerging as a potential new regional base for the al-Qaida terrorist network .
The country is the ancestral home of al-Qaida leader Osama Bin Laden .
The United States says al-Qaida has links with the Somali Islamist group , al-Shabab .
The group , along with other Islamic allies , has been fighting to overthrow Somalia 's United Nations-backed government .
Ohio 's top elections official is appealing a court decision that requires a new system to verify thousands of newly registered voters .
Ohio Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner Thursday said her office filed an appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court .
Brunner says checks already exist to determine voter eligibility in the state .
On Tuesday , a federal appeals court ordered Brunner to use government records to check for voter registration fraud .
The court also ordered her to make the information available to Ohio 's 88 county ( local ) election boards .
Ohio 's Republican Party chairman , Bob Bennett , had accused Brunner , a Democrat , of concealing fraudulent voter registrations in the hotly contested state .
A liberal civic group , ACORN , has been accused of voter registration fraud in Ohio and several other states .
The U.S. government has unveiled a revamped rescue package for insurance giant American International Group ( AIG ) that will provide the troubled company with an additional $ 30 billion on an " as needed " basis .
The U.S. Treasury said Monday AIG will repay the government with equity stakes in two of its Asia-based units .
The transaction will help AIG pay off some of the $ 40 billion it has drawn from its government line of credit and offset its quarterly losses .
The company announced a fourth-quarter loss of more than $ 60 billion on Monday .
That loss is the largest corporate loss in history , despite two previous government bailouts totaling $ 150 billion .
The government owns an 80 percent stake in AIG , which suffered major losses last year in investments linked to the housing market .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says the country 's population reached 1.3 billion Thursday when a baby boy was born at a Beijing hospital .
The agency says senior Chinese officials were on hand to greet the newborn .
Xinhua says the milestone was delayed for four years by China 's birth control policies .
Human rights groups have criticized China for these policies , saying they led to forced abortions , sterilizations and abandonment of baby girls because of a bias in favor of boys .
Xinhua says although the population growth rate has been reduced , the actual increase is still about 10 million people annually .
Lebanese officials plan to raise accusations of Israeli espionage at the United Nations , after authorities arrested and charged several Lebanese telecom workers with spying for Israel .
Speaking late Wednesday after a cabinet meeting , Lebanese Information Minister Tareq Mitri said the ministers agreed to submit a detailed report about the alleged Israeli spy networks to the U.N. Security Council .
In the past month , Lebanon has detained at least three employees of the state-owned phone company Alfa , suspected of spying for Israel .
The decision was made on the same day a Lebanese military court sentenced a man to death for giving information about the militant group Hezbollah to Israel in 2008 .
Hassan Ahmed al-Hussein was charged with providing Israel detailed information about Hezbollah officials and other targets .
Last week a military court sentenced another Lebanese man to death for giving Israel security information during its 2006 war with Hezbollah .
Turkey says local television stations will be permitted to broadcast programming in Kurdish beginning next month .
Speaking Wednesday , the head of Turkey 's broadcasting watchdog Zahid Akman said stations that have completed applications can begin Kurdish-language broadcasting at the end of January .
Turkey , which is seeking membership of the European Union , changed its laws in 2002 , and state-run television has since carried broadcasts in two Kurdish dialects for 30 minutes each week .
However , local broadcasters had until now been stymied by bureaucratic regulations .
Turkish media say some stations have complained that under the new regulations , Kurdish broadcasts will still be limited to 45 minutes a day .
Turkey is under intense European pressure to grant greater cultural rights to Kurds .
The country started EU membership talks earlier this year .
A prosecutor in Sweden has opened an investigation into whether a Swedish oil company with connections to the country 's foreign minister had any role in war crimes committed in Sudan .
The company - Lundin Oil - signed a deal with Sudanese officials to explore for oil in an area the Khartoum government did not fully control .
A Sudan watchdog group ( ECOS ) said in a recent report that the deal fueled fighting between government troops and southern rebels .
Prosecutor Magnus Elving says the war crimes stemming from the fighting took place between 1997 and 2003 .
Foreign Minister Carl Bildt was a member of Lundin 's governing board at the time .
He declined comment after the investigation was announced Monday .
Semi-autonomous southern Sudan is scheduled to vote in January on whether to become fully independent .
The referendum is a key part of the 2005 peace deal that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says India has " difficult choices " to make on a civil nuclear cooperation agreement with the United States before the deal can be completed .
Rice made the remarks during an interview with Reuters news agency , but declined to give details .
She says she thinks progress is being made .
Deputy Secretary of State Nicholas Burns , who is negotiating the deal with India , agrees that the parties have made progress .
He told reporters Friday in Washington the agreement may be complete before President Bush travels to India in March .
The accord would grant New Delhi access to the civil nuclear technology it has been denied for three decades , provided that it segregates its military facilities and opens civilian facilities to United Nations inspections .
Any deal reached between the two countries on nuclear technology would have to be approved by the U.S. Congress .
Senior officials in Iraq 's main Shi'ite alliance say the group has selected interim Vice President Ibrahim al-Jaafari as its candidate for prime minister .
Tuesday 's announcement came after three days of marathon negotiations , and after another United Iraqi Alliance candidate , Ahmed Chalabi , withdrew his candidacy .
The alliance won 48 percent of the vote in last month 's elections , and gained 140 seats in the 275-member National Assembly .
Mr. al-Jaafari , a physician , still faces a challenge from incumbent Prime Minister Iyad Allawi .
However , Mr. Allawi 's party slate failed to win more than 14 percent of the January 30 vote .
In other developments , a car bomb explosion near an Iraqi troop convoy in Baghdad killed two Iraqi soldiers and wounded more than 20 others .
The first day of voting in Italy 's general elections has ended after an angry campaign between incumbent Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and center-left leader Romano Prodi .
The last opinion poll taken two weeks ago gave Mr. Prodi a slight lead , with millions of voters still undecided .
First day voter turnout was 66 percent .
Voting resumes Monday morning and first results are expected by the end of the day .
Mr. Berlusconi has been Italian prime minister for five years .
He has promised to cut taxes , including eliminating the housing tax .
He accuses Prodi 's leftist-bloc of being communist dominated .
Mr. Prodi calls the proposal unworkable and has assailed Mr. Berlusconi 's economic record .
The campaign was marked by two televised debates in which the candidates traded insults .
Mr. Prodi compared Mr. Berlusconi to a drunk while the prime minister called his rival a " useful idiot . "
The United States says Syria needs to get out of Lebanon and let the people there decide their political future through free and fair elections .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has discussed Lebanon with French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier on the sidelines of a London conference on Palestinian reforms .
Afterward , Secretary Rice said Syria needs to leave Lebanon and let elections proceed .
" The Syrians are out of step with the way the region is going and out of step with the aspirations of the people of the Middle East , " said Ms. Rice .
She says Syria also must end its political meddling in Lebanon , where the pro-Syrian government has just resigned , and she pledges U.S. material support for free and fair elections in Lebanon .
Mr. Barnier said France agrees that the Lebanese should be , as he put it , " the masters of their own fate " .
President Bush has signed an order that allows the U.S. government to block the assets of any person or group that threatens the stability of Iraq .
The order exempts the United States .
White House spokesman Tony Snow says the order targets terrorist and insurgent groups , including those supported by Syria and Iran , that are not covered by existing measures .
Mr. Bush 's action allows the U.S. Treasury and other agencies to freeze the property and assets in the United States of people or entities deemed to be working to destabilize Iraq or undermine reconstruction or humanitarian efforts .
No person or entity was designated under the order when it was announced Tuesday .
NATO says coalition troops killed at least 40 suspected Taleban militants in southern Afghanistan overnight .
Officials say one coalition soldier also died in the fighting in Panjwayi district .
They say the operation destroyed a bomb factory and a weapons cache .
More than 320 militants have been killed in the latest NATO offensive in the past week .
In Kabul , security was tight for a ceremony with President Hamid Karzai to honor an anti-Taleban guerrilla leader , Ahmed Shah Massoud , killed five years ago .
Meanwhile , NATO officials met in Poland to discuss measures to boost the force in Afghanistan .
Canadian General Ray Henault says officials are pleased with anti-Taleban efforts in the north and west , but he said more should be done in southern Afghanistan .
NATO officials have asked member nations for an additional 2,000 soldiers and more military equipment .
World number two Andy Roddick and Olympic silver medalist Mardy Fish will lead the U.S. team against Spain in the Davis Cup tennis finals next month in Seville .
U.S. Davis Cup captain Patrick McEnroe announced the squad Thursday .
The Bryan brothers , Bob and Mike , will play doubles against the Spanish team that features former French Open winners Juan Carlos Ferrero and Carlos Moya , and Tommy Robredo and Rafael Nadal .
The Spaniards will have the advantage of playing at home on their favorite surface , red clay .
Spain is playing in the final for the third time in five years .
The U.S. team has not won the title since 1995 .
The Americans have won the title a record 31 times but have not appeared in the final since 1997 .
The Davis Cup final will be held December 3-5 in Seville , Spain .
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting their nets into a river , and narrowly watched their proceedings .
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing , and on going home to dinner left their nets upon the bank .
The Monkey , who is the most imitative of animals , descended from the treetop and endeavored to do as they had done .
Having handled the net , he threw it into the river , but became tangled in the meshes and drowned .
With his last breath he said to himself , " I am rightly served ; for what business had I who had never handled a net to try and catch fish ? '
Hundreds of pro-Kremlin youth demonstrated outside the U.S. Embassy in Moscow Monday , following the convincing victory of Dmitri Medvedev in Sunday 's presidential election .
Members of the youth group Nashi wore capes emblazoned with the slogan " Russia Forward . "
A large banner said American wives should be taught to cook cabbage soup .
The phrase is a reference to a sarcastic comment President Vladimir Putin made last month that Western election observers should mind their own business and teach their wives to make cabbage soup .
Palestinian medical officials say six Palestinians have been killed and at least 26 others wounded in clashes with Israeli forces in the southern Gaza Strip .
They say two civilians , including a 40-year-old bystander and a Hamas militant 's mother , are among the dead .
Three Hamas fighters and an Islamic Jihad militant have also been killed .
The Israeli army says its forces began carrying out ground operations and air strikes targeting armed militants early Tuesday near the town of Khan Yunis .
The Israeli army says troops were conducting an operation to search and destroy tunnels along the frontier in an effort to prevent cross-border Palestinian rocket fire .
Israel said its soldiers opened fire when they encountered Palestinian gunmen .
Israel says its forces have also detained about 100 people for questioning .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least six people near a Shi'ite mosque south of Baghdad .
Police say Saturday 's attack was in the mostly Shi'ite town of Musayyib .
At least 14 other people were wounded in the blast .
The latest sectarian violence comes one day after suicide bombers killed 79 worshippers at a Shi'ite mosque in the capital .
U.S. officials are calling for all factions in Iraq to exercise restraint after Friday 's bombings .
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the mosque attack was the work of people trying to divide Iraq and encourage sectarian violence .
The top United Nations human rights envoy arrived in Burma Monday for a five-day visit to evaluate progress on human rights in the military-ruled nation .
Tomas Ojea Quintana is expected to urge the military government to allow opposition and ethnic political parties to participate in upcoming elections .
Quintana has said he also wants to meet Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi , who remains under house arrest .
Quintana 's visit follows Saturday 's release from detention of Tin Oo , the vice-chairman of Burma 's opposition National League for Democracy .
The 83-year-old retired general and former defense minister was released after seven years of detention .
Tin Oo said Sunday he is not happy with his freedom as long as other political prisoners are being held by Burma 's military government .
The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation has launched a probe of the four U.S. financial institutions at the center of the crisis on Wall Street .
News reports Tuesday say the FBI is investigating potential fraud by mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , insurer American International Group and investment bank Lehman Brothers .
The inquiries are focused on the institutions and their executives , and are part of a wide-ranging fraud investigation by the FBI .
The agency now has a total of 26 investigations related to the near-collapse of the U.S. financial sector .
One of cases involves the arrest of two former managers of investment bank Bear Stearns , who were arrested in June on on securities fraud and other charges .
Bear Stearns nearly collapsed in March of this year before it was purchased by rival J.P. Morgan Chase .
Cuba say it has resumed formal ties with all European Union nations , ending a strain in relations following Cuba 's 2003 government crackdown on dissidents .
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque made the announcement Monday in Havana .
Last week , Mr. Roque announced that Cuba was renewing diplomatic contact with only eight EU countries , which included France , Germany and Britain .
In 2003 , the Cuban government arrested and imprisoned 75 dissidents .
Fourteen of them have been released .
Following the crackdown , the European Union began to reduce high-level government visits and invited dissidents to embassy gatherings .
An Indonesian court has convicted a second militant for involvement in suicide bombings on Bali island in 2005 .
The court in Bali 's capital , Denpasar , sentenced Dwi Widiarto to eight years in prison Thursday .
Another man , Abdul Aziz , received an eight-year sentence Wednesday .
Aziz was found guilty of harboring the alleged mastermind of the attacks , Noordin Top , and setting up a Web site showing how to kill foreigners in Indonesia .
The suicide bombings on October first last year killed 20 people and wounded about 150 at three restaurants along southern Bali 's coast .
Verdicts are expected later this month for two other defendants on trial for the attacks .
The U.S. government is increasing security along part of the U.S.-Mexican border , in a bid to cut down on illegal immigration .
A new Homeland Security Department initiative will bring more agents , aircraft and technology to watch 420 kilometers of borderlands in the state of Arizona .
Those measures will be announced Wednesday , two days before a private group known as the Minuteman Project starts its own month-long Arizona border patrol .
Illegal immigration has become a more pressing issue in the United States as the number of people trying to enter through Mexico increases and officials warn that al-Qaida operatives may be among them .
Last year , the U.S. Border Patrol caught more than 500,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona alone .
A Border Patrol spokesman , Andy Adame , predicts that number will rise once the new measures are implemented .
When a man attempted to siphon gasoline from a motorhome parked on a Seattle street , he got much more than he had bargained for .
Police arrived at the scene to find an ill man curled up next to a motorhome near spilled sewage .
A police spokesperson said that the man admitted to trying to steal gasoline and plugged his hose into the motorhome 's sewage tank by mistake .
The owner of the vehicle declined to press charges , saying that it was the best laugh he 'd ever had .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says he may call early elections if his Fatah party fails to reach a political deal with the Hamas militant group .
Officials said Saturday he will announce the plan for presidential and legislative elections next week .
Hamas leaders immediately rejected Abbas 's plan as a coup against the Hamas-led government .
They also warned it will raise tensions .
The Palestinian leadership is facing a financial crisis because of international sanctions imposed after Hamas won elections this year .
Western donors are demanding that the militant group recognize Israel and accept interim Israeli-Palestinian accords .
On Friday , Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas said his group will never recognize Israel and vowed to continue violent resistance .
Hamas and the Fatah party of Mr. Abbas have failed to agree on forming a unity government to help end the sanctions .
One of Lebanon 's key anti-Syrian politicians is urging Syria to cooperate with the United Nations probe of the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Druze leader Walid Jumblatt also backed calls by Mr. Hariri 's son , Saad , for an international tribunal to try those responsible for the February bomb attack .
The U.N. report , issued last week , implicated Lebanese and Syrian officials in the killing .
It said Syria 's cooperation in the probe was limited .
Syrian officials dismissed the credibility of the U.N. report .
Meanwhile , Lebanese police arrested a man who the U.N. report says telephoned Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud minutes before Mr. Hariri was killed .
A spokesman for Mr. Lahoud has strongly denied the president had been in contact with Mahmoud Abdel-Al .
Israel is accusing Syria and Iran of involvement in a suicide attack that wounded 20 people in Tel Aviv Thursday , less than a week before Palestinian parliamentary elections .
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz is quoted as saying Israel has evidence that Iran funded the bombing and Syria planned it .
The Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the attack .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas denounced the bombing as an attempt to sabotage the January 25 elections .
Meanwhile , former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres has proposed that Israel open peace talks with the Islamic militant group Hamas if the group renounces violence after the elections .
Hamas , which has staged dozens of suicide bombings , is expected to have a strong showing in the balloting .
Tens of thousands of Hamas supporters packed rallies in Gaza Friday .
Israel says groups like Hamas are terrorist organizations not interested in peace .
The U.S. dollar fell to a record low compared to the euro on Wednesday , with each euro costing $ 1.30 .
The currency markets were reacting to a government report showing the U.S. trade deficit was the third-highest in history ( $ 51.6 billion ) in September .
The deficit measures the amount that imports to the United States exceeded American exports .
However , U.S. exports still rose to a record level .
A separate government report showed that the number of Americans requesting unemployment compensation for the first time increased slightly last week ( by 2,000 to a total of 333,000 ) .
Later today , the U.S. central bank is expected to raise its key interest rate a quarter of a point in a bid to fend off future inflation .
Authorities in Serbia and Montenegro have confirmed the arrest in Belgrade of a fugitive suspect in the bombings in Madrid last year that killed 191 people .
Serbian Interior Minister Dragan Jocic said Thursday that police detained Moroccan Abdelmajid Bouchar in June on charges of violating immigration laws .
He said police confirmed Mr. Bouchar 's identity on Tuesday .
Serbian authorities say they are considering extraditing Mr. Bouchar to Spain .
Spain 's EFE news agency reports that Spain will seek the suspect 's extradition .
Spanish officials say Mr. Bouchar escaped from an apartment building near Madrid on April 3 , 2004 - just before police stormed the building in efforts to arrest several suspects in the deadly attacks .
The suspected Islamic militants blew themselves up as police prepared for the assault .
The incident took place three weeks after the bomb attacks on Madrid 's transit system .
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage , and standing near him , bitterly reviled him .
The Lion said to the Fox , " It is not thou who revilest me ; but this mischance which has befallen me . "
The U.S. military says the number of detainees held by coalition forces in Iraq has dropped to less than 14,000 from a peak of 26,000 in 2007 .
The military said in a statement released Tuesday that the prisoners are being freed or transferred to Iraqi custody to meet the requirements of a security agreement that took effect on January 1 .
The military also said that beginning last month coalition forces have released an average of 50 detainees a day .
American forces in Iraq can no longer hold suspects without charge as they have done since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 .
The agreement requires American troops to hand over detainees wanted by the Iraqis and release the rest .
Authorities in Serbia say police have shot and killed the suspected leader of an Islamist terrorist group in a predawn gunbattle in a predominantly Muslim region .
A statement Friday says Islamic militants released attack dogs and threw a grenade at police as they approached a house to arrest the leader of a Wahhabi Muslim terrorist group suspected of operating in the area .
Officials say police returned fire , killing 28-year-old Ismail Prenetic .
Another terrorist suspect and a policeman were wounded in the attack , which occurred near the town of Novi Pazar , in the southern Sandzak region .
Wahhabi extremists follow a strict form of Sunni Islam .
The United Nations says the military situation along the Eritrea-Ethiopia border remains " tense and potentially volatile . "
A report Thursday from the U.N. peacekeeping mission along the border repeats the U.N. 's assessment from a week ago .
The report says without elaborating that troop movements have been noticed on both sides of the border .
It says Eritrea has maintained restrictions on U.N. helicopter flights and ground patrol movements in defiance of a Security Council demand for the restrictions to be lifted .
The council has threatened sanctions against Eritrea unless the restrictions are removed .
It warned of possible sanctions against both Eritrea and Ethiopia if the countries use force to settle their ongoing border dispute .
A two-year border conflict ending in 2000 killed some 70,000 people .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has pledged to improve economic cooperation between Turkey and Bosnia .
The Turkish leader is in the Bosnian capital , Sarajevo Tuesday for talks with his counterpart , Nikola Spiric , on improving bilateral relations and trade .
Mr. Spiric says last year Bosnia imported $ 215 million in goods from Turkey , while exports amounted to just $ 62 million dollars .
He called for change to resolve the problem .
Mr. Erdogan arrived in Bosnia-Herzegovina late Monday accompanied by a delegation of 40 Turkish businessmen .
He is expected to hold talks with members of the country 's collective presidency and cabinet Tuesday .
Mr. Erdogan will also visit with the 250 Turkish soldiers serving with the European Union force in Bosnia .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and top leaders of the Islamic militant group Hamas have opened talks on forming a new government .
Saturday 's meeting at Mr. Abbas ' presidential offices in Gaza City marked the first discussions between the two sides since Hamas ' stunning victory in last month 's parliamentary elections .
It was not clear whether Mr. Abbas had officially asked Hamas to form a government .
Prior to the meeting , a spokesman said the Palestinian president would discuss the election results , among other things .
Mr. Abbas insisted Friday that a new Hamas-led government must respect previous commitments made by the Palestinian Authority .
His comments came the same day the U.N. Security Council demanded that a new Palestinian government respect principles of a negotiated peace with Israel .
Hamas has faced international calls to renounce violence , disarm and recognize Israel .
The United Nations refugee agency UNHCR says at least 367 people have died in the first six months of this year trying to cross by sea into Yemen from Somalia .
UNHCR spokeswoman Jennifer Pagonis says , by comparison , about 328 people died all of last year .
Pagonis told reporters Tuesday , an additional 118 people are missing after attempting to cross the Gulf of Aden into Yemen this year .
The agency reports 77 boats have arrived in Yemen carrying at least 8,600 refugees , mostly Somalis and Ethiopians , since January of this year .
She says many refugees die during the journey because their smugglers force them off the boats leaving them to drown .
Others are beaten to death .
The flow of refugees crossing the Gulf of Aden has temporarily stopped because the waters are rough during July and August .
Iran 's supreme leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has harshly criticized Israel 's offensive in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip .
Iranian state television quotes Ayatollah Khamenei as urging the leaders of Muslim states to - in his words - " hit the occupying regime in the face . "
The Iranian supreme leader also blamed the United States , Israel 's main ally , for the deaths of Palestinians in Israeli raids .
Fighting between Israeli forces and Hamas militants in Gaza has killed more than 100 Palestinians and two Israeli soldiers since Wednesday .
Israel intensified operations against Gaza 's Hamas rulers in response to rocket attacks on southern Israel that have killed one Israeli and wounded several others in recent days .
India 's Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee says a detailed investigation will be conducted to bust what he called " a Pakistani spy ring " in the Indian army .
His remarks follow the arrest of two army men last week on charges of spying and handing over secret documents to Pakistan 's military spy agency known as the ISI ( Inter-Services Intelligence ) .
Islamabad denies the allegation .
Mukherjee said the first step will be to unearth the network which the ISI has developed inside the Indian army .
India and Pakistan routinely accuse each other 's diplomats of spying and expel them .
The latest development comes ahead of next month 's peace talks , which are aimed at reviving the almost three-year old peace process .
It was derailed in July after India accused the ISI of involvement in train bombings in Mumbai , formerly known as Bombay .
U.S. civil rights leader Jesse Jackson says he regards deposed Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide as the Caribbean nation 's legitimate leader .
Mr. Jackson said Wednesday he has met with the exiled ex-Haitian president in South Africa and says Mr. Aristide , who was democratically elected twice , was removed from office by the United States .
Mr. Aristide has lived in exile in South Africa since a popular uprising forced his departure as president in early 2004 .
He said U.S. forces kidnapped him and forced him to leave Haiti , but the United States says Mr. Aristide requested U.S. aid in leaving Haiti .
Presidential elections are scheduled for December to replace a transitional government .
On Wednesday , Mr. Jackson also met with former South African President Nelson Mandela to discuss the HIV / AIDS pandemic in South Africa .
Fifty Chechen militants surrendered their weapons to authorities Tuesday , taking advantage of the Russian government 's offer of amnesty .
The former insurgents turned themselves in during a ceremony in the city of Gudermes as the Kremlin-backed Prime Minister of Chechnya , Ramzan Kadyrov , looked on .
Some of the fighters said they were tired of being on the run and are ready to return to normal life .
The Chechen government has given security guarantees to the fighters and promises of aid .
Authorities offered the amnesty to insurgents not suspected of major crimes after last month 's death of Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev .
Basayev was Russia 's most wanted man and claimed responsibility for the 2004 Beslan school massacre .
The Kremlin says the separatist war in Chechnya is largely over , but rebels still launch occasional attacks .
A Japanese newspaper is reporting that North Korea will not return to nuclear disarmament talks until it meets with U.S. officials on resolving economic sanctions against Pyongyang .
The Sankei newspaper said Sunday the North wants a meeting between the U.S. nuclear negotiator , Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill , and North Korean Vice Foreign Minister Kim Gye Gwan on the issue .
The North 's U.N. delegation is reported to have informed U.S. officials of the demand .
Washington has imposed sanctions on some of the North 's state-owned companies .
Pyongyang wants the sanctions lifted before six-nation disarmament talks continue .
North Korea agreed during a round of talks in September to dismantle its nuclear program in exchange for aid .
However , the next day , Pyongyang demanded light water reactors for its energy needs before it disarms .
A study by the Pretoria-based Institute for Democracy in South Africa ( IDISA ) says the electoral irregularities in Zimbabwe ’s parliamentary elections last March appear to have been " highly organized . "
It says evidence shows that the constituencies were " controlled " by state agencies that determined movement in and out of the area .
It also says there is evidence of support for the perpetrators of political intimidation .
An author of the report , Tony Reeler , told Voice of America reporter William Eagle that Zimbabwe 's ruling party was able to engage the opposition in the government-created system for protesting vote irregularities .
That in turn led to a de~facto recognition of the legitimacy of the polls among critics and regional observers .
As a result , neighboring governments accepted the outcome of the polls .
A train accident south of New Delhi has left at least 18 people dead and more than 100 injured .
Indian authorities say the death toll is likely to rise because a large number of passengers remain trapped in the tangled wreckage , and 40 of the injured are in critical condition .
The train was traveling from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh state to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh when it derailed .
The engine and six passenger cars tumbled off the tracks .
Railway Minister Laloo Prasad Yadav said the express train was moving at 90 kilometers per hour in an area where the maximum speed should have been 15 kilometers per hour when it left the tracks and hit signaling equipment .
Authorities say they suspect brake failure was involved , since the train raced through a station instead of stopping just before it derailed .
Police in Iraq say insurgents have killed six members of a Sunni militia allied with U.S. forces against al-Qaida .
The Sahwa ( Awakening ) fighters were killed in a village in Diyala province Thursday , a day after a string of apparently coordinated attacks killed at least 55 people across Iraq .
A series of car bombings and other attacks Wednesday mostly targeted Iraqi security forces in one of the worst days of violence in months .
A recent surge of attacks has raised concerns about the ability of Iraqi forces to fight insurgents as U.S. troops withdraw from the country .
The United States officially ends its combat mission in Iraq on August 31 .
Some 50,000 troops are to remain in the country to train and advise Iraqi forces until the end of 2011 , when all U.S. forces are to leave .
The U.S. Army 's second highest ranking general says the number of American troops in Iraq will likely be reduced within one year .
General Richard Cody , the Army 's vice chief of staff , told reporters in Washington Thursday that top combat commanders are evaluating a smaller U.S. presence , and a decision could be made next month .
The New York Times reports that senior military officials estimate American troop levels could fall to 105,000 by early 2006 .
The standing U.S. force of 138,000 troops was increased during the recent Iraqi national elections , but the Pentagon has said it would return to that number by the end of this month .
The Bush administration says U.S. troop reduction depends on the quality and speed of training Iraqi forces .
Authorities in the western U.S. state of California are investigating a crash at a popular off-road race that killed eight people .
A dozen more were injured , some seriously .
The accident occurred Saturday ( evening - 0240 GMT Sunday ) just as the race , called the California 200 , was starting .
The driver of a truck participating in the race lost control .
The vehicle plowed into a crowd of spectators who had gathered at a dry lake bed in southern California for the annual event .
The 200-mile race involving a variety of off-road vehicles was being held near the city of Lucerne Valley in the Mojave desert , 165 kilometers northeast of Los Angeles .
It had been scheduled to last through the night before the accident brought it to an abrupt end .
Muslims in several Middle Eastern countries have begun observing the holy month of Ramadan .
Religious authorities in Saudi Arabia , the birthplace of Islam , said the new crescent moon was sighted Monday night , signaling the start Tuesday of a month of spiritual reflection .
Clerics in Oman did not see the crescent moon and say their observances will begin Wednesday .
Iran also will start the holy month Wednesday .
It was during this period more than 1,400 years ago that Muslims believe the words of their holy book , the Quran , were revealed to the Prophet Mohammed .
During Ramadan , Muslims abstain from eating , drinking , smoking and having sexual relations from sun up .
They may only break their fast at sundown .
President Bush has sent Muslims around the world a message of greetings to mark the beginning of Ramadan in the United States .
International donors have pledged $ 750 million over the next year to help Haiti revive its economy and make vital repairs to infrastructure .
The funds were pledged Tuesday at the end of a donor conference in the capital , Port-au-Prince .
Delegates included representatives from the United States , European Union and Inter-American Development Bank .
President Rene Preval 's government had asked for $ 540 million as part of a $ 7 billion package of aid his administration says it needs for long-term development projects .
Haitian leaders say building roads , revitalizing infrastructure , and boosting education and health care services are their priority .
Haiti 's economic problems continue and living standards remain low , more than two years after a revolt led to the ouster of then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Police in the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , have used batons to disperse a student protest against King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power on February 1 .
Witnesses say students retaliated by throwing stones at police .
At least six demonstrators were injured and several others detained during Tuesday 's protest .
In a separate development , Maoist rebels have released to the International Committee of the Red Cross 18 police and soldiers captured during a gunbattle in eastern Nepal in June .
The Red Cross said in a statement the six soldiers and 12 police were handed over Monday .
The Maoists have been fighting since 1996 to replace the constitutional monarchy in the world 's only Hindu kingdom with a communist state .
So far , the insurgency has claimed more than 11,000 lives .
Montenegrin police have detained several relatives of Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic , as part of an ongoing push to track down the fugitive .
Karadzic 's brother told reporters that police in the northwestern town of Niksic had taken the fugitive 's sister and her husband into custody Saturday for questioning , before releasing them hours later .
Bosnian Serb wartime leader Karadzic and his former top military commander , Ratko Mladic , have been indicted by the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague on genocide charges linked to the 1995 Srebrenica massacre of up to eight thousand Muslim men and boys .
Authorities say Karadzic - a fugitive since 1997 - is hiding in the Serb-run part of Bosnia-Herzegovina , or in adjacent Montenegro or Serbia .
Mladic is thought to be harbored by hardliners in Serbia .
Riots have broken out in the capital of Algeria because of soaring food prices .
Protesters set fires and hurled stones at police in Algiers late Wednesday and Thursday .
Security officers responded with tear gas .
Tensions remained high in the capital 's neighborhood of Bab el-Oued on Thursday , where security officers patrolled the streets .
The violence erupted after price hikes were enacted for basic items , such as sugar , flour and oil .
U.S. Defense Department officials say an anti-missile defense system test failed early Wednesday when an interceptor missile shut down on its launch pad in the Pacific Ocean .
A statement from the Pentagon 's Missile Defense Agency says a target missile with a mock warhead was successfully fired from Kodiak , Alaska .
But the interceptor scheduled to launch 16 minutes later from a site in the Marshal Islands shut down for some unknown reason and failed to fire .
The agency says the exercise was a test of a missile defense system President Bush had hoped to have partially operational by the end of this year .
Wednesday 's test of the anti-missile shield was the first of its kind to be conducted in nearly two years .
Previous tests have met with sporadic success .
Pakistani police say they have arrested eight Shi'ite Muslims in connection with last week 's riot in Karachi in which six employees of a U.S. fast-food outlet of KFC were killed .
The six men were killed after mobs of angry Shi'ite Muslims set fire to the restaurant and attacked other property following a bombing at a Shi'ite mosque that killed five people .
Police say the eight detainees are suspected of involvement in the riots , including the attack on KFC .
The Karachi mosque attack came three days after a suicide bombing at a Muslim festival in Islamabad that killed at least 19 people , mostly Shi'ites .
Investigators suspect that the outlawed Sunni militant group known as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi was behind both attacks .
The group has ties with Afghanistan 's former Taleban regime and with al Qaida .
Cuba 's former president Fidel Castro broke a one-month silence to praise new U.S. President Barack Obama .
In a posting on a government website , Mr. Castro said he does not have the least doubt about Mr. Obama 's honesty .
But , he said , many questions remain about the new American leader .
The comments were Mr. Castro 's first written remarks since December 15 .
His long silence prompted speculation that the 82-year-old 's health had deteriorated .
Mr. Castro 's article was about a conversation he had with Argentina 's president Christine Fernandez , who visited him in Cuba on Wednesday .
Following the meeting , Ms. Fernandez dispelled rumors about the former Cuban leader 's health , saying she thought he looked good .
Mr. Castro has not been seen in public since undergoing intestinal surgery in July 2006 .
Details of his health are considered a state secret .
Police have issued shoot-on-sight orders -- as deadly protests continue throughout India 's northwestern state of Rajasthan .
The order was made Friday , with police targeting rioters who destroy government property .
At least 20 people have been killed as police and ethnic Gujjars clashed during this week 's protests .
Members of the Gujjar community are demanding greater access to the government 's affirmative action program .
They want to be categorized as an official tribe , entitling them to special quotas for government jobs and educational opportunities .
The unrest has spread to India 's capital city of New Delhi , where major highways remain blocked .
Train service to and from Rajasthan has also been canceled , leaving many stranded .
Another Rajasthani community , the Meenas , is also threatening to riot -- saying it does not want Gujjars to be included in government quotas at their expense .
President Bush is renewing his effort to convince China to stop tying its currency to the U.S. dollar .
At a news conference Wednesday , Mr. Bush said if China allowed its currency to trade on open markets , it would help reduce the U.S. trade deficit .
China has fixed its currency , the yuan , at 8.28 to the dollar since 1994 .
Many U.S. manufacturers say this undervalues China 's currency , giving Chinese-made imports an unfair price advantage .
A member of the U.S. Senate 's Commerce Committee , Byron Dorgan , says the trade deficit with China is growing in a dangerous way .
In a VOA interview , the Democrat from North Dakota said he is trying to get Senate action to change trade policies and reduce the deficit .
Doctors in quake-stricken areas of Pakistan have begun a campaign to immunize 800,000 children against potentially killer diseases before the bitter Himalayan winter .
U.N. health officials said Sunday that teams with vaccines for measles , diphtheria , polio and other illnesses fanned out to remote communities in helicopters from the city of Muzaffarabad in Pakistani-controlled Kashmir .
The officials said they hope to reach all the quake-stricken areas within a two-week window of opportunity before the weather turns severe .
One official said that children living in remote mountain villages , cut off by landslides , were particularly vulnerable due to malnutrition .
International organizations say last month 's 7.6 magnitude earthquake killed at least 86,000 Pakistanis and made some three million homeless .
More than 1,300 people were killed in Indian Kashmir .
South Korea and the European Union are calling on North Korea to return to six-party talks on its nuclear program as soon as possible .
South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun discussed the nuclear standoff with EU officials in a meeting Saturday in Helsinki .
Mr. Roh is in the Finnish capital for a two-day Asia-Europe summit that begins Sunday .
Following the talks , Mr. Roh and the EU issued a joint statement urging Pyongyang to rejoin the six-party nuclear talks , which were last held in November .
The two sides also criticized North Korea 's ballistic missile tests in July .
Pyongyang has boycotted the nuclear negotiations to protest U.S. sanctions against North Korean-linked companies .
The U.S. has accused the companies of involvement in money laundering for Pyongyang .
Settlement of freed slaves from the US in what is today Liberia began in 1822 ; by 1847 , the Americo-Liberians were able to establish a republic .
William TUBMAN , president from 1944 - 71 , did much to promote foreign investment and to bridge the economic , social , and political gaps between the descendents of the original settlers and the inhabitants of the interior .
In 1980 , a military coup led by Samuel DOE ushered in a decade of authoritarian rule .
In December 1989 , Charles TAYLOR launched a rebellion against DOE 's regime that led to a prolonged civil war in which DOE himself was killed .
A period of relative peace in 1997 allowed for elections that brought TAYLOR to power , but major fighting resumed in 2000 .
An August 2003 peace agreement ended the war and prompted the resignation of former president Charles TAYLOR , who faces war crimes charges in The Hague related to his involvement in Sierra Leone 's civil war .
After two years of rule by a transitional government , democratic elections in late 2005 brought President Ellen JOHNSON SIRLEAF to power .
The UN Mission in Liberia ( UNMIL ) maintains a strong presence throughout the country , but the security situation is still fragile and the process of rebuilding the social and economic structure of this war-torn country continues .
Police in Indian Kashmir say suspected militants have set fire to a government building , trapping dozens of workers .
At least one person has died .
Reports from Kashmir 's summer capital , Srinagar , say at least two militants marched into an income tax office Friday and started the blaze .
A security official told Associated Press that authorities are trying to storm the building in order to put out the blaze and evacuate civilians safely .
Militants opposed to Indian rule in Kashmir have waged a guerilla campaign against Indian authorities since 1989 .
The bulk of the population depends on agriculture , fishing , and forestry for at least part of its livelihood .
Most manufactured goods and petroleum products must be imported .
The islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead , zinc , nickel , and gold .
Prior to the arrival of RAMSI , severe ethnic violence , the closing of key businesses , and an empty government treasury culminated in economic collapse .
RAMSI 's efforts to restore law and order and economic stability have led to modest growth as the economy rebuilds .
Global warming and plans to sharply cut greenhouse gas emissions are expected to dominate a two-day European Union summit opening Thursday in Brussels .
EU environment ministers have proposed slashing emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and 30 percent if other industrialized nations and several developing economies join them .
The EU leaders are expected to debate just how individual members can meet that goal .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel , the summit host , says Europe can set a good example for the rest of the world .
She said the EU still has enough time to fight global warming .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair is also expected to appeal to EU members who also belong to NATO to commit more money and troops to Afghanistan .
An Iraqi official says an al-Qaida militant who carried out one of the first bombings in Iraq 's sectarian fight has been executed .
An Iraqi Justice Ministry official , undersecretary Busho Ibrahim , announced Friday , that Oras Mohammed Abdul-Aziz was hanged in Baghdad Tuesday .
Ibrahim says Abdul-Aziz was convicted of involvement in the car bombing of an Islamic shrine in Najaf in 2003 that killed Shiite cleric Ayatollah Mohammad Baqir al-Hakim and 84 other people .
Friday 's announcement is the first confirmation that a trial for the bombing had taken place .
Ibrahim says Abdul-Aziz was convicted and sentenced to death last October .
Hakim , the murdered cleric , was a prominent political figure and an opponent of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein .
The Indian government has stepped up diplomatic pressure on Pakistan to spare the life of jailed Indian national Sarabjit Singh who is facing execution for spying .
India 's External Affairs Minister Natwar Singh held a meeting in New Delhi with Pakistani Ambassador Aziz Ahmad Khan to press the case .
In Islamabad , the case is being pursued by India 's High Commissioner , Shiv Shankar Menon .
India 's Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran will also plead for sparing the Indian national 's life when he visits Islamabad at the end of this month for talks under the 19-month-old peace process .
Pakistan says Sarabjit Singh is an Indian spy and the country 's Supreme Court recently upheld the death sentence for him .
The convict 's family says he had strayed into Pakistani territory while farming his land close to Pakistani border some 15 years ago .
Germany 's Chancellor Angela Merkel has criticized the United States for using secret overseas detention centers to interrogate terror suspects .
Speaking in Berlin Saturday , the chancellor said the prisons are not compatible with the rule of law .
She said the challenge is to defeat terrorism without compromising fundamental values .
However , Ms. Merkel praised President Bush for giving details about the prisons , which had been revealed earlier by an American newspaper The Washington Post .
In a televised address last Wednesday , President Bush said interrogations of terror suspects at the secret CIA prisons had produced important information that helped scuttle future attacks on the U.S.
He said 14 so-called " high-value " detainees at the prisons have been transferred to the U.S. detention center at Guantanamo Bay and will face trial .
European Union officials have demanded that the locations of the CIA centers be made public .
Afghanistan says it plans to pursue the possibility of establishing a trade corridor in Pakistan , to make it easier for Indian exports to reach Afghanistan .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai made the remarks during talks in New Delhi with Indian Foreign Minister Natwar Singh .
Mr. Karzai said he had already taken up the issue with Pakistan and would push it further .
A Foreign Ministry spokesman told reporters the two men also reviewed Indian-Afghan relations .
Mr. Karzai expressed interest in getting more Indian teachers and doctors to Afghanistan as well as more vocational training .
Last week , when India 's Foreign Minister Natwar Singh was in Kabul , Mr. Karzai urged India to back a gas pipeline from Central Asia through Afghanistan .
On Thursday , Mr. Karzai meets with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has ridiculed an investigation into his possible ties to the Colombian rebel group , FARC .
Colombian officials say computer files found during their raid on a FARC rebel camp inside Ecuador early this month link Mr. Chavez to the group .
The international police organization Interpol is investigating the files .
Mr. Chavez said during a national address Monday that computer files are not trustworthy , and he joked that people should not be surprised if pictures turn up showing him with al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
Venezuela and Ecuador broke diplomatic ties with Colombia three weeks ago after it staged the cross-border attack on FARC rebels inside Ecuador .
The crisis has since eased and ties have been restored .
People around the world are taking part in memorials to mark Monday 's one-year anniversary of the tsunami that killed an estimated 230,000 people .
People from as far away as Norway and Sweden attended memorial services in Thailand Sunday .
The victims of the December 26 disaster included Westerners vacationing at waterfront resorts in the region .
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was also taking part in ceremonies .
A moment of silence will be held in Aceh and throughout the region to mark the exact time the tsunami 's first waves struck .
Other ceremonies take place in hard-hit Sri Lanka and India , as well as other countries in the Indian Ocean region and Europe .
The tsunami , triggered by a massive earthquake off Sumatra island , left about two million people homeless .
Iraq 's interior minister says reports that Sunni Arab prisoners were tortured at a secret Baghdad jail are exaggerated .
Bayan Jabr says seven detainees showed signs of abuse .
He stressed that those responsible will be held accountable .
Mr. Jabr described those held at the detention center as dangerous terrorists .
He also rejected claims that all the detainees were Sunni Arabs , and referred to at least one Shi'ite man held there .
Earlier Thursday , Mr. Jabr 's deputy , Major General Hussein Kamal , called for unified command over detention centers to prevent cases of abuse .
Meanwhile , U.S. military officials have offered to support an Iraqi investigation into the prison .
But the country 's main Sunni political party , the Iraqi Islamic Party , is demanding an international probe .
Some Sunnis accuse a Shi'ite militia ( Badr Organization ) of running the prison .
The Shi'ite group denies any involvement .
Three Palestinians and an Israeli have been killed in continuing Middle East violence .
Israeli officials say Palestinian gunmen Wednesday shot dead an Israeli civilian west of the city of Hebron .
Officials say the Israeli man was working on the barrier that the Jewish state is building inside the West Bank .
Also Wednesday , Israeli troops shot and killed three Palestinians in different parts of the Gaza Strip .
The death of Yasser Arafat last month brought new hopes for peace in the region .
However , while the violence has decreased , it has not stopped .
Ethiopian officials say swarms of desert locusts have invaded northern Ethiopia , threatening crops and agriculture .
The officials say they are most concerned the locusts may lay eggs , leading to a massive invasion in the future .
The government says it has begun aerial surveillance of the swarms .
The flying insects can eat their weight in crops daily , devastating thousands of hectares of farmland used by both humans and livestock .
Last week , the United Nations Food and Agriculture agency warned that desert locusts were threatening Sudan and Eritrea .
A top U.S. arms official has called on all nations to end nuclear projects with Iran .
Speaking to a United Nations panel Monday , Assistant Secretary of State for arms control Stephen Rademaker did not mention any countries by name .
But the comments appeared aimed at Russia , which is helping Iran build a nuclear reactor in the city of Bushehr .
U.S. officials have been calling for Iran 's nuclear program to be referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The United States and the European Union accuse Iran of seeking to develop nuclear weapons , which Tehran denies .
Meanwhile , Iran 's top nuclear envoy ( Ali Larijani ) warned that his country will do all it can to " endanger U.S. interests " if Washington continues to pressure Tehran over the nuclear dispute .
The Australian government says one of its two citizens being held as terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba will be released soon and sent back home .
Australian Attorney General Philip Ruddock announced Tuesday that Egyptian-born Mamdouh Habib will be returned to Australia without being charged .
Mr. Ruddock says it is also unlikely Mr. Habib will be charged with any offense in Australia .
Mr. Habib was arrested in Pakistan shortly after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
The Australian national says he was taken from Pakistan to Egypt and tortured there before being sent to Guantanamo .
The U.S. says it believes Mr. Habib had prior knowledge of the attacks .
Another Australian terror suspect , David Hicks , is also being held at Guantanamo Bay .
He is scheduled to face trial by a military tribunal in March .
Palestinian medics say Israeli forces raided the southern Gaza Strip early Thursday , killing at least eight Palestinians , including a child .
Witnesses say at least 26 Palestinians were wounded in Israel air strikes and artillery fire near the town of Rafah .
They say four militants were among those killed .
The Israeli military says its aircraft fired missiles at a group of militants preparing to attack soldiers operating in the area .
Residents say Israeli troops in armored vehicles and about 50 tanks took up positions near Gaza 's closed airport - the furthest Israeli incursion in its offensive against Palestinian militants .
Israel says the offensive , which began more than a month ago , is aimed at stopping Palestinian rocket attacks into Israel and securing the release of a kidnapped Israeli soldier .
At least 160 Palestinians have been killed in the offensive .
Iranian state-run media say the country will conduct a trial run of its first nuclear power plant on Wednesday .
A Sunday report from the IRNA news agency says the " pilot stage operation " will take place during a visit by Russian nuclear power chief Sergey Kiriyenko of the Rosatom Atomic Corporation .
The report says Kiriyenko will also inspect various parts of the Bushehr power plant during his visit .
Russia began helping Iran build the 1,000 megawatt plant in 1995 , and says it has already delivered the fuel needed to get the reactor running .
The launch of the plant has been frequently delayed , although Kiriyenko said earlier this month that he expected it to start up before the end of the year .
A military court in Britain has cleared three soldiers of criminal charges in connection to the drowning death of a teenage looting suspect in Iraq .
The soldiers were charged with manslaughter after the 15-year-old boy drowned in a canal in Basra in May 2003 .
A fourth soldier was cleared of the charges last month .
Prosecutors accused the soldiers of forcing the teenager , and three other Iraqis , into the canal to punish them for suspected looting .
Defense lawyers said the soldiers were poorly prepared to occupy southern Iraq and were using what was deemed the minimum force necessary to maintain order with insufficient resources .
A Defense Ministry spokesman said that the soldiers are now free to pursue their military careers .
The United States is preparing to decide on the design of new nuclear warheads to gradually replace its outdated , Cold War-era weapons .
The Washington Post reports Saturday that the nation 's nuclear security agency will decide later this year between designs by two different companies for nuclear warheads capable of remote control disarmament in case they fall into the hands of terrorists .
The new warheads are expected to be based on existing technology , meaning there would be no need for underground testing .
The head of the National Nuclear Security Administration told the Post that the warhead redesign is part of a larger program to consolidate nuclear facilities in nearly a dozen U.S. states .
Officials are set to review design proposals in November .
Congress must then debate and approve their decision .
The terrorist network headed by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing Tuesday at an Iraqi army recruitment center in Baghdad that killed at least 21 people .
In an Internet statement , al-Qaida in Iraq said one of its members penetrated the line of recruits outside the center and detonated explosives he was carrying .
Most of those killed or injured were members of Iraq 's fledgling military or those hoping to join .
On Monday , Zarqawi loyalists also claimed responsibility for two suicide bombings in Mosul and Baquba that killed at least 27 people -- mostly policemen .
AlsoTuesday , gunmen in Baghdad ambushed the car of an Iraqi politician , killing his two sons and a bodyguard .
The politician , Mithal al-Alusi , escaped unhurt .
Officials in Morocco say the security forces have arrested 17 radical Islamists suspected of forming an al-Qaida-linked terrorist structure .
The Moroccan state news agency says the group had links to small groups at the Iraqi border .
It said two top suspects were recruiting other extremists , including two Moroccans who had been prisoners at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The agency report did not describe the precise nature of the group 's alleged links to al-Qaida .
But it said Moroccan authorities had been tracking one of the suspects , a Moroccan national identified as Khaled Azig , since last March .
Moroccan security forces have been on high alert since suicide bombing attacks in Casablanca two years ago killed 45 people .
A Nicaraguan journalist has died after being shot in the chest in a dispute outside a polling center where votes from Sunday 's municipal elections were being counted .
Maria Jose Bravo , a reporter for the newspaper La Prensa , was killed Tuesday after leaving the center in Juigalpa , 140 kilometers southeast of Managua , and wandering into a fight between followers of rival political parties .
A former mayor of the city of El Ayote was among three suspects taken into custody in the shooting , which authorities say was the only violent incident to occur during the elections .
Although a final vote count has not yet been released , the leftist Sandinista National Liberation Front appears to have won the majority of the 152 mayoral seats at stake in the Central American country .
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded to be spared his life .
The Weasel refused , saying that he was by nature the enemy of all birds .
The Bat assured him that he was not a bird , but a mouse , and thus was set free .
Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel , whom he likewise entreated not to eat him .
The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice .
The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse , but a bat , and thus a second time escaped .
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account .
The economy of Samoa has traditionally been dependent on development aid , family remittances from overseas , agriculture , and fishing .
The country is vulnerable to devastating storms .
Agriculture employs two-thirds of the labor force and furnishes 90 % of exports , featuring coconut cream , coconut oil , and copra .
The manufacturing sector mainly processes agricultural products .
One factory in the Foreign Trade Zone employs 3,000 people to make automobile electrical harnesses for an assembly plant in Australia .
Tourism is an expanding sector accounting for 25 % of GDP ; 122,000 tourists visited the islands in 2007 .
In late September 2009 , an earthquake and the resulting tsunami severely damaged Samoa , and nearby American Samoa , disrupting transportation and power generation , and resulting in about 200 deaths .
The Samoan Government has called for deregulation of the financial sector , encouragement of investment , and continued fiscal discipline , while at the same time protecting the environment .
Observers point to the flexibility of the labor market as a basic strength for future economic advances .
Foreign reserves are in a relatively healthy state , the external debt is stable , and inflation is low .
Engineers say it will be weeks and possibly months before the flood waters in New Orleans recede completely .
Officers with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have given different estimates , with one officer , Colonel Richard Wagenaar telling the Los Angeles Times that draining the city may take half a year .
Army engineers said some New Orleans neighborhoods were under six to nine meters of water on Wednesday .
The low-lying city became inundated after water from Hurricane Katrina spilled over or broke levees designed to keep the city dry .
Engineers say flood levels have stabilized for now .
They hope to speed the draining process by punching holes in certain levees so the water will flow out of the city .
Once part of Spain 's vast empire in the New World , Honduras became an independent nation in 1821 .
After two and a half decades of mostly military rule , a freely elected civilian government came to power in 1982 .
During the 1980s , Honduras proved a haven for anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting leftist guerrillas .
The country was devastated by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 , which killed about 5,600 people and caused approximately $ 2 billion in damage .
Since then , the economy has slowly rebounded .
A top Georgian official says President Mikhail Saakashvili will boycott the upcoming World War II ceremonies in Moscow because of an unresolved matter with Russia .
Georgian Foreign Minister Salome Zurabishvili said the decision comes because no progress was made in talks Friday on Russia withdrawing from two Soviet-era bases in Georgia .
Ms. Zurabishvili made the announcement in Moscow after talks with her Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov .
President Saakashvili is also to skip a meeting in Moscow Sunday of leaders of former Soviet states .
Russia had said previously it would take at least four years to complete the withdrawal from Georgia .
Georgia has called for a speedier pullout .
President Bush , who is to meet in Georgia Tuesday with Mr. Saakashvili , has expressed support for Georgia 's efforts to resolve the issue .
The New York City transit union has called for a partial strike against private bus companies , but says it will continue negotiating .
A strike deadline passed without a walkout when the contract between the Transport Workers Union and the state-run Metropolitan Transportation Authority expired at 12:01 a.m. , local time Friday .
A top Transport Workers Union official , Roger Toussaint told a news conference that negotiations went far beyond the contract deadline because the union wants to work out a deal .
If talks fail and workers walk off the job , it would be the city 's first subway and bus strike in 25 years .
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg estimates a strike could cost the city $ 400 million a day .
It was another bloody day in Iraq , as a series of attacks and execution-style killings claimed some 100 lives Monday .
Iraqi officials say 75 bodies were found in the country , including 60 in different areas of Baghdad - the apparent victims of rampant sectarian violence .
Officials say the bodies showed signs of torture .
Two Iraqi Shi'ite officials escaped apparent assassination attempts around the capital .
And a prominent Iraqi television star and comedian was shot to death while driving through Baghdad .
Walid Hassan often used dark comedy to try to provide some relief from the violence and misery in Iraq .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says one Marine was killed in fighting in Al Anbar Province Sunday .
A separate statement says coalition forces raided suspected Shi'ite militia strongholds in Sadr City to search for a cell of militiamen believed responsible for kidnapping and torturing Iraqi civilians and soldiers .
Iraqi insurgents have killed a Kurdish member of parliament and wounded a second lawmaker in an ambush north of Baghdad .
Officials say Faris Nasir Hasan Shabak was killed in the attack late Saturday near Dujail .
His brother and a driver were also killed , and another lawmaker , Haidar Qasim Shasho Shingari , was wounded .
Meanwhile , the Iraqi parliament has signed off on revisions to the draft constitution , and forwarded the document to the United Nations .
The U.N. is printing five million copies of the long-delayed charter for distribution ahead of an October 15 nationwide referendum .
The amended draft includes language defining Iraq as a founding member of the Arab League .
Iraq 's Sunni minority had complained during weeks of marathon talks that the original draft favored the country 's Shi'ites and Kurds , whose delegates dominated the drafting committee .
Officials in Saudi Arabia say the number of Ramadan visas issued for foreign pilgrims has jumped by 16 percent .
Saudi Arabia 's Ministry of Hajj said it initially planned to issue 792,000 visas during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan .
But it says that number was raised to 911,000 due to high demand from abroad and more space being available at hotels in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina .
Thousands of Muslims from around the world make pilgrimages to Saudi Arabia 's holy cities during Ramadan .
The month of Ramadan marks the time more than 1,400 years ago when Muslims believe the words of Islam 's holy book , the Koran , were revealed to the Prophet Muhammad Muslims celebrate the month with family visits and invitations to iftars , shared meals that break the fast .
Ramadan will conclude in September with a celebration called Eid al-Fitr .
The U.S. federal government has enlisted the popular children 's show Sesame Street to get the word out in a health campaign designed to battle a likely resurgence of the swine flu .
Three federal agencies have partnered with the educational show in creating public service announcements to teach children about health and hygiene .
A Sesame Street character named Gordon and the friendly furry red muppet named Elmo will explain in the announcements the importance of healthy habits .
U.S. authorities have warned that the number of cases of the H1N1 virus could increase as the weather gets colder and children return to school after the summer vacation .
The White House announced the partnership Tuesday just hours before U.S. President Barack Obama was scheduled for a briefing with senior officials on preparations to combat the flu .
A land of vast distances and rich natural resources , Canada became a self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the British crown .
Economically and technologically , the nation has developed in parallel with the US , its neighbor to the south across the World 's longest unfortified border .
Canada faces the political challenges of meeting public demands for quality improvements in health care , and education , social services , and economic competitiveness , as well as responding to the particular concerns of predominantly francophone Quebec .
Canada also aims to develop its diverse energy resources while maintaining its commitment to the environment .
China 's agriculture ministry is reporting a new outbreak of bird flu in the far northwestern Xinjiang region .
The report comes as Chinese officials defended the government against accusations it is failing to report cases of the virus .
But China 's health minister , Gao Qiang said he is concerned that local health officials do not always have the expertise needed to identify outbreaks of bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency says a state avian flu lab has confirmed that 300 poultry in Xinjiang died of the deadly H5N1 form of the virus .
Meanwhile , Indonesian health officials say a 25-year-old woman has died in a Jakarta hospital after testing positive for the disease .
Those test results have not yet been confirmed by the World Health Organization .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court has confirmed opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko 's election victory , rejecting his opponent 's appeal of the results of last month 's presidential vote .
Judges rejected former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych 's claim that the December 26th election was flawed and should be overturned .
The ruling means the election results can be officially published Thursday , clearing the way for Mr. Yushchenko 's inauguration -- possibly as early as Saturday .
Final results of the election showed Mr. Yushchenko winning with 52 percent of the vote , 8 percent more than Mr. Yanukovych .
Mr. Yanukovych has filed a number of complaints about the election , which was a court-ordered re-vote replacing flawed balloting in November .
Separately , an aide to Mr. Yushchenko says the president-elect will travel to the European parliament next week to promote Ukraine 's bid to join the European Union .
China 's military budget for this year will rise almost 15 percent to more than $ 35 billion .
A spokesman for the National People 's Congress made the announcement Saturday , one day before China 's parliament starts its annual session .
He said the increase will be spent mainly on salaries and fuel , and underlined that China is committed to a path of peaceful development .
China has had double-digit increases in military spending nearly every year since the early 1990s , causing unease among its neighbors .
Much of the country 's weapons arsenal is deployed against Taiwan , the island Beijing regards as a renegade province .
Tensions rose this past week after Taiwan 's President Chen Shui-bian scrapped a council for eventual unification with mainland China .
Pakistani officials say their helicopter gunships have stepped up attacks on Taliban targets in South Waziristan , near the Afghan border .
Security officials say Wednesday 's military strikes were aimed at suspected militant hideouts east of South Waziristan 's main town of Wana .
They add that two soldiers have been killed in the operations .
The attacks come a day after commanders of the Pakistani Taliban announced that their former leader , Baitullah Mehsud , died Sunday from wounds suffered in a U.S missile strike more than two weeks earlier .
U.S. and Pakistani officials had said they believed Mehsud was killed in an August 5 missile strike in South Waziristan , but until Tuesday , the Taliban had insisted he was alive .
On Saturday , another Taliban commander said the group had named Hakimullah Mehsud to replace Mehsud .
Organizers of the 2006 Olympics in Turin , Italy have announced plans to make the upcoming Winter Games environmentally friendly .
Turin Olympic Organizing Committee officials addressed the United Nations Environmental Program ( UNEP ) meeting in Nairobi , Kenya Wednesday , and said offsetting carbon dioxide emissions is a top priority .
Organizers plan to offset the equivalent of 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions expected to be created by transport and operation of the Olympic venues during the February 10 to 26 Games .
The emissions will be offset through the use of forestry , energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources .
Other environment-friendly measures include water saving programs , reduced construction to minimize the impact on the landscape , use of pollution-free construction materials at the Olympic Village and a waste plan to handle increased trash volume .
Afghan officials say suspected Taleban rebels have killed seven people in two separate attacks .
In the first attack late Monday , militants fired rocket-propelled grenades at a U.S. military-led convoy , but they missed their target and killed six Afghan civilians instead .
Three other civilians were wounded in the attack on a highway in Logar province , just outside the capital , Kabul .
Hours later , near the city of Jalalabad , militants opened fire on a police vehicle , killing a senior police officer and wounding two others .
The French News Agency quotes a purported spokesman for the ousted Taleban as saying the group was responsible for both attacks .
Taleban-led rebels have increased violence in southern and eastern regions of Afghanistan in the past six months , killing more than 1,100 people .
U.N. officials have confirmed a new outbreak of the virulent H5N1 strain of bird flu in Afghanistan .
A spokesman for the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) said Thursday samples collected from poultry in the Nangarhar and Kunar provinces and in the capital of Kabul have all tested positive .
The statement said the Afghan government has begun quarantines , slaughtering poultry and other preventative measures to curtail the outbreak , but did not give more details .
Afghan Health Ministry authorities confirmed cases of H5N1 in Nangarhar last month and authorized similar measures at the time .
The deadly strain of bird flu virus has killed at least 160 people worldwide since 2003 .
It currently can not be transmitted among humans , but scientists fear that if the virus mutates , it could cause a worldwide pandemic .
A media rights group in Nepal says police have arrested more than 80 journalists who were planning a rally in Kathmandu to demand the lifting of restrictions on the press .
The Federation of Nepalese Journalists says those arrested include the group 's chairman , Buishnu Nishthuri .
The federation 's general secretary told the French news agency more than a dozen journalists were injured when police used batons .
The agency says one of its photographers , Devendra Man Singh , was beaten over the head while covering the protest and needed stitches .
Thousands of people have been turning out for daily protests organized by an alliance of seven political parties demanding restoration of democracy in the kingdom .
Nepal has been in turmoil since King Gyanendra seized absolute power in February , a move he said was needed to end a deadly Maoist revolt aimed at overthrowing the monarchy .
U.S. President-elect Barack Obama is urging Americans to renew a sense of common purpose this holiday season .
Mr. Obama says everyone must do their part to " serve one another , " " seek new ideas " and " start a new chapter " for the country .
The president-elect delivered his call to action Wednesday , Christmas eve , in a radio and online video message to honor Christmas and the holiday season .
He said these are " tough times " for many Americans struggling in the " sluggish economy , " and that people coming together will help see the United States through the crisis .
Mr. Obama also called on Americans to continue to support U.S. troops fighting abroad .
He called their service an " extraordinary and selfless sacrifice " and an " inspiration to us all . "
An author and former aide to President Bush 's father has revealed a number of audiotapes he secretly recorded of the current president for more than a year leading up to Mr. Bush 's nomination five years ago .
Doug Wead told The New York Times in a story published Sunday that he made the recordings of his friend , who was then governor of Texas , because he viewed Mr. Bush as a historic figure .
In some conversations Mr. Wead played for a reporter , the future president expresses concern about gaining support of conservative Christian leaders , and discusses several opponents , including Democratic Vice President Al Gore .
At one point , Mr. Bush calls the man he would defeat in a close contest in 2000 " pathologically a liar . "
Mr. Bush complained repeatedly about the news media , which he accused of a " campaign " against him .
The hunter shot by Vice President Dick Cheney says he is " deeply sorry " for all the trouble the accident caused his friend .
Harry Whittington spoke Friday as he was leaving the Texas hospital that treated him after Mr. Cheney sprayed him with bird shot Saturday .
Although his face was heavily bruised , the 78-year-old lawyer appeared in good health , despite having suffered a minor heart attack Tuesday .
Mr. Cheney today acknowledged the difficulties and media scrutiny the incident has caused .
Speaking in Wyoming , he said it had been a " very long week " and was grateful that his friend is doing well .
The vice president on Wednesday took responsibility for the shooting .
The owner of the ranch where it occurred had initially blamed Whittington .
Pakistan is condemning the loss of civilian lives during a NATO attack on suspected Taleban militants along the border with Afghanistan .
Pakistani spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said Monday the NATO mission in Afghanistan must be more cautious before launching military operations near Pakistan 's borders .
She also said any military action taken inside Pakistan must only be conducted by Pakistani forces .
Nine civilians died when a rocket fired by NATO forces on Saturday hit a building in Pakistan 's North Waziristan province .
At the time , NATO says it was battling Taleban insurgents near the Afghan-Pakistan border .
The spokeswoman says Pakistan has issued a complaint with NATO .
Civilian deaths during NATO and U.S.-led military operations in Afghanistan have prompted sharp criticism from Afghan officials , including President Hamid Karzai .
NATO officials have said they are reviewing their rules of engagement to limit civilian causalities but have also blamed Taleban militants for using civilians as human shields .
A WOLF , who in devouring a man had choked himself with a bunch of keys , asked an ostrich to put her head down his throat and pull them out , which she did .
" I suppose , " said the Wolf , " you expect payment for that service . "
" A kind act , " replied the Ostrich , " is its own reward ; I have eaten the keys . "
The organizers of a Lebanese aid voyage say they will set sail Sunday on a trip designed to break Israel 's blockade of the Gaza Strip .
Israel has warned against the journey by the ship , named the Mariam .
The organizers of the mission say those on board will be women only .
Israel came under harsh international criticism after it launched a deadly raid in May on a flotilla of aid ships trying to break the Gaza blockade .
Nine Turkish activists were killed .
Israel eased its land blockade in response to the outrage , but kept the sea blockade in force .
Israeli officials say the measure is necessary to prevent Hamas militants and supporters from smuggling weapons into Gaza .
A group of independent policymakers and economists say economic growth is within reach of developing countries if they adopt the right policies .
The World Bank 's Commission on Growth and Development has released a new report , which says developing countries can achieve fast , sustained and equitable growth , providing they use formulas used by other successful economies .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Italy 's prime minister has confirmed that U.S. forces in Iraq opened fire on a car carrying a freed Italian hostage and her rescuers , Friday .
Silvio Berlusconi said freed journalist Giuliana Sgrena sustained a shoulder injury and an Italian agent who helped free her was killed .
Mr. Berlusconi said he has summoned the American ambassador in Rome for an explanation of the incident .
Executives at Ms. Sgrena 's newspaper , Il Manifesto , said the shooting occurred at a coalition checkpoint as the car headed to Baghdad airport .
A spokesman for the U.S. military in Baghdad told VOA they are looking into press reports about the incident , but had no information .
Gunmen abducted Ms. Sgrena outside a Baghdad mosque on February 4 .
She later appeared in a video appeal for Italian troops to leave Iraq .
U.S. business tycoon Donald Trump intends to build a high-rise building in the former Soviet republic of Georgia .
Georgia 's presidential press office and the Trump organization confirmed Wednesday that Trump had signed a letter of intent to build one of his self-named towers in the country .
Trump signed the deal with the Georgian business group Silk Road during a visit of President Mikheil Saakashvili to New York .
An executive vice president of the Trump organization , Michael Cohen , said Mr. Saakashvili was present at the signing .
Cohen said in a statement that while the letter of intent was just the first in a series of agreements , it demonstrated Trump 's interest in investing in Georgia .
Mr. Saakashvili 's press office said potential sites for the development included Tbilisi and along the Black Sea coast .
Iraqi politicians are holding more talks on forming a unity government as another U.S. congressional delegation visits Baghdad to check on their progress .
U.S. Senator John McCain met in Baghdad with officials who have been trying to form a government for the past three months .
McCain said he is guardedly optimistic that officials can agree on a government within weeks .
Separately , U.S. Ambassador to Iraq , Zalmay Khalilzad , said the country is at a defining moment .
He said Iraqi leaders are struggling to form a government and bring under control the violence that grips the nation .
In the latest violence , a roadside bomb killed four Iraqis in Baghdad Saturday .
Police also found 10 more bodies that showed signs of torture in the city .
North of the capital , another roadside bomb killed two Iraqis .
Kurdish party officials in Syria say the body of a Kurdish Muslim cleric has been found three weeks after he was reported missing .
The Yekiti Kurdish Party says hospital officials in northeastern Syria found signs of torture on the body of Sheikh Mohammad Maashouq al-Khaznawi .
Mr. al-Khaznawi had been missing since leaving the Islamic Studies Center in Damascus on May 10 .
The disappearance sparked a march last month by thousands of Kurds demanding to know his whereabouts .
Kurdish leaders accused Syrian officials of holding the sheikh .
Authorities denied the charge .
Kurdish party leaders say the cleric 's body was being transported for burial services in the town of Kameshli .
President Bush has congratulated Chile 's first female president-elect , Michelle Bachelet , on her win in last Sunday 's runoff election .
A White House spokesman said President Bush called Ms. Bachelet Thursday and told her he looks forward to working with her .
The spokesman said they talked about the importance of working together to promote good governance in the region .
Ms. Bachelet , a left-leaning candidate , took 53 percent of the vote in Sunday 's runoff election .
Her opponent was billionaire businessman Sebastian Pinera , the candidate of a rightist alliance .
The socialist Ms. Bachelet brings to her position her experience as a physician , single mother and former political dissident .
She has promised to improve health care and education , and has said she will divide her cabinet appointments equally between men and women .
Coleco Industries Inc. , a once high-flying toy maker whose stock peaked at $ 65 a share in the early 1980s , filed a Chapter 11 reorganization plan that provides just 1.125 cents a share for common stockholders .
Under the plan , unsecured creditors , who are owed about $ 430 million , would receive about $ 92 million , or 21 cents for each dollar they are owed .
In addition , they will receive stock in the reorganized company , which will be named Ranger Industries Inc .
After these payments , about $ 225,000 will be available for the 20 million common shares outstanding .
The Avon , Conn. , company 's stock hit a high in 1983 after it unveiled its Adam home computer , but the product was plagued with glitches and the company 's fortunes plunged .
But Coleco bounced back with the introduction of the Cabbage Patch dolls , whose sales hit $ 600 million in 1985 .
But as the craze died , Coleco failed to come up with another winner and filed for bankruptcy-law protection in July 1988 .
The plan was filed jointly with unsecured creditors in federal bankruptcy court in New York and must be approved by the court .
Iraqi authorities say gunmen have ambushed and killed 12 Iraqi soldiers near the northern city of Kirkuk .
Officials say the attackers shot and killed the soldiers after stopping their bus on a road leading to the oil-rich city late Wednesday .
It was the deadliest single attack in Iraq since Sunday 's election to choose members of the country 's interim national assembly .
Election workers are still counting votes .
An influential association of Sunni Muslim clerics said the assembly will lack the authority to draft a new constitution , because many Sunnis did not vote .
Iraq 's interim prime minister Iyad Allawi said he wants to ensure all parts of Iraqi society have a role in its new government .
Mr. Allawi held talks Wednesday with leaders from the country 's political and religious factions , including Sunni leaders .
Chinese President Hu says he would like to see his country return to stronger ties with Japan .
Mr. Hu made the comments Tuesday during a meeting with Ichiro Ozawa , the leader of Japan 's main opposition party .
The two men met as Ozawa visited Beijing in an effort to improve relations between the two countries .
Ozawa was invited to Beijing by the Chinese government .
Before leaving Tokyo Monday , he said it is important for Japan and China to develop friendly relations .
The two countries ' leaders have not met face-to-face since 2001 .
Beijing has objected to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's repeated visits to a Tokyo shrine that honors war dead , including war criminals from World War Two .
Sino-Japanese relations also have been strained by territorial disputes , including access to natural gas deposits in the East China Sea .
Millions of residents of Harbin , one of northeast China 's largest cities , are enduring their third day without water after about 100 tons of a toxic chemical were released into a river .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says that , as of early Friday , the level of chemicals in the Songhua River remained 28 times above national safety standards .
Thursday , the leading edge of an 80-kilometer long slick of benzene reached Harbin 's municipal water inlets .
Experts say it will be sometime Saturday before the river flows clean again in Harbin .
Authorities are warning people to avoid the benzene fumes rising from the river .
Meanwhile , Petrechemical Corporation , a subsidiary of China 's largest oil producer , China National Petroleum Corporation has apologized for the chemical plant explosion November 13 that spilled the cancer-causing pollutants upstream in Jilin City .
A Pakistani court has lifted a ban on the popular social networking site Facebook , two weeks after the site was blocked for soliciting images of the Prophet Muhammad .
Most Muslims consider any image of the Prophet to be blasphemous , and Facebook 's " Everybody Draw Muhammad Day " page triggered protests throughout Pakistan .
The Lahore High Court on Monday ordered the government to restore access to Facebook , but said " blasphemous " content should remain blocked .
The court also called on the government to develop a system targeting offensive content online .
Last week , Pakistan lifted a similar ban on the video website YouTube .
Authorities said sacrilegious or profane material will remain restricted .
On Sunday , authorities in Bangladesh also temporarily blocked Facebook .
Publications of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in Danish newspapers a few years ago sparked violent protests in majority-Muslim countries .
A recent Philippine military report says al Qaida-linked Muslim militants in the country have stepped-up recruiting efforts and signed on some 100 recent Muslim converts since July .
The report says the Abu Sayyaf terror group has joined forces with the Rajah Solaiman Movement , a group of Filipino Christians who have converted to Islam .
Military officials say Abu Sayyaf has promised the recent converts up to $ 530 each to conduct sabotage operations in Zamboanga city on the southern island of Mindanao .
Philippine security forces , assisted by U.S. intelligence , have been battling Muslim insurgents in Mindanao and other southern islands .
Abu Sayyaf has been blamed for a series of kidnappings and other deadly attacks , including a ferry bombing last year that killed more than 100 people .
A senior Iraqi official says an appeals court has upheld the death sentence against ousted leader Saddam Hussein for the 1982 killings of 148 Shi'ite villagers .
National Security Advisor Mowaffaq Rubaie made the announcement in Baghdad Tuesday .
Under Iraqi law , the death sentence is to be carried out within 30 days .
Last month , an Iraqi court sentenced Saddam to hang for the killings of the Shi'ites from the town of Dujail after an attempt there to assassinate Saddam .
The ousted leader is also on trial on charges of genocide for the 1988 Anfal campaign in which prosecutors say 180,000 Kurds were killed .
Sri Lanka 's government is denying claims by Tamil Tiger rebels that it is using tsunami relief money to buy weapons and obstructing aid deliveries to areas under rebel control .
Defense Ministry spokesman Brigadier Daya Ratnayke said Sunday , the government uses only its annual budget for defense spending .
The Sri Lankan official also insisted the government is taking extensive measures to ensure that rebel-held areas are provided with a fair share of assistance .
A report on the pro-rebel Tamilnet web site said rebel leader Velupillai Prabhakaran raised the issues during a meeting Saturday with Norway 's Foreign Minister Jan Petersen in the rebel stronghold , Kilinochchi .
Mr. Petersen is in Sri Lanka to try to revive peace efforts between the rebels and government , and to assess the needs of tsunami-hit areas .
Iraqi lawmakers say the nation 's parliament voted Saturday to extend its current session until the end of July .
The session was due to close at the end of this month .
Lawmakers are under pressure to pass key measures aimed at promoting national reconciliation .
In a separate development , Iran 's state-run IRNA news agency reports that Iraq 's president will visit Tehran this week .
IRNA quotes Iraqi sources who say President Jalal Talabani is expected to meet with senior officials , including his Iranian counterpart , President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The French Defense Ministry says an investigation has confirmed an Ivory Coast man was killed by suffocation by French soldiers in the West African nation last May .
In a statement issued Wednesday the ministry says the man was killed while in an armored vehicle May 13 .
The statement says the commander of the French force in Ivory Coast was informed of the incident but did not inform his superiors .
Last month the ministry suspended General Henri Poncet and two other military officers for what it called " serious breaches of law , military regulations and orders " in connection with the incident .
French peacekeepers patrol a buffer zone in Ivory Coast separating the government-controlled south and the rebel-held north .
To err is human .
To put the blame on someone else is doubles .
U.S. and European share prices have recovered a day after they plunged because of concerns about the economy .
U.S. stock indexes are up in Wednesday 's trading , while European markets are mixed .
Asian markets took a nosedive Wednesday following Tuesday 's steep decline in U.S. and European share prices .
Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index fell more than 1,300 points , more than five percent , in a holiday-shortened trading day .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index was off 646 points - nearly five percent .
Markets in China , Taiwan , South Korea , and New Zealand were closed for a holiday .
Analysts say many investors fear the U.S. economy is close to a recession if not already in one .
The Bush administration is asking the state of Texas to hold new hearings for 51 Mexicans on death row , who say they were denied consular assistance in violation of international law .
The move is in response to a 2004 ruling by the International Court of Justice , which said Texas officials failed to notify the Mexicans of their right to talk to consular officials shortly after their arrests .
U.S. officials said in a recent Supreme Court filing that complying with the World Court 's decision will help protect the interests of U.S. citizens abroad and underscore America 's commitment to international law .
The decision comes just weeks ahead of a U.S. Supreme Court hearing in the case of Jose Medellin , one of five gang members sentenced to death for the rape and murder of two Texas girls in 1993 .
A powerful typhoon that drenched the Philippines earlier this week is bearing down on Taiwan Friday , forcing the cancellation of flights and the closure of schools and offices .
Forecasters at Taiwan 's Central Weather Bureau say that by late Friday afternoon local time , Typhoon Sepat was located about 220 kilometers southeast of coastal Taitung county , with gusts of wind up to 227 kilometers per hour .
Sepat is moving northwest at a speed of around 20 kilometers per hour .
Forecasters expect it to begin plowing over the center of the island on Friday evening and then move on to lash China 's southeastern coast on Saturday .
Earlier this week Typhoon Sepat exacerbated monsoon rains and flooded parts of the Philippine capital , Manila .
No deaths were reported .
Flooding continued in Manila Friday , forcing the closure of offices and schools .
Polls have opened in Benin , where voters are choosing a successor to long-time President Mathieu Kerekou .
After casting his ballot Sunday in Cotonou , Mr. Kerekou expressed doubt about the vote 's transparency .
The French press agency quotes him as saying unnamed groups gave false names and voter cards to foreigners in the west African nation before the poll .
Some four million people are eligible to cast ballots in the election , which features 26 candidates , including two women .
A second round will be called in two weeks if no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote .
President Kerekou is barred from running again because he is older than the 70 year age limit .
Mr. Kerekou first came to power in a military coup in 1972 and led the country to its first democratic elections in 1991 , which he lost .
He returned to office after winning a 1996 vote .
Provincial officials in western Afghanistan say at least 12 people were killed Sunday in factional fighting there .
The officials say clashes broke out in western Herat province between two local warlords , Amanullah Khan and Arbab Basir .
Earlier Sunday , NATO-led troops killed 15 suspected militants who ambushed a NATO convoy in southern Afghanistan .
The alliance said Sunday that the troops returned fire after they were attacked in Zabul province with small arms and rocket-propelled grenades .
It said two NATO vehicles were damaged in the attack .
NATO forces are encountering stiff resistance from Taleban insurgents in the south .
Many private radio stations in Nepal resumed news broadcasts Friday , more than six months after King Gyanendra banned news from all independent outlets .
Nepal 's Supreme Court ruled earlier this week that one station closed for violating the news ban should be allowed to resume operations .
A media rights group in Nepal , Save Independent Radio Movement , says other stations interpreted the ruling as giving them the right to broadcast news .
The group says about 16 of the country 's more than 40 independent radio stations have restarted news broadcasts , and others will do the same over the next several days .
The news ban for independent radio was part of a wider media crackdown imposed by King Gyanendra after he fired the government and seized complete power in February .
British police say they have released two people who had been detained in connection with last month 's failed car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow .
The two who were released without charge are physician trainees arrested July 2 - two days after a vehicle packed with gas cylinders , nails and gasoline smashed into barricades near the entrance to Glasgow 's main airport .
A woman detained in the case was released last week .
Three people - two in Britain and one in Australia - have been charged .
Police have identified the suspects as Indian-born doctor Sabeel Ahmed , and his brother , Kafeel , who remains hospitalized in Glasgow with severe burns .
A distant cousin of the two , Muhammad Haneef , was charged Saturday in Brisbane , Australia .
Separately , a British judge has given police until July 21 to question a Jordanian doctor who was arrested in northern England June 30 .
A Palestinian teenager has been killed and at least six others wounded in the West Bank in a shootout between Israeli troops and militants .
Palestinian witnesses in Jenin say the dead 18-year-old was unarmed and was throwing rocks at Israeli troops attempting to arrest a wanted militant from the Islamic Jihad movement .
Israel says its troops returned fire after Palestinians began shooting and detonating explosives .
In other developments , the Israeli parliament passed a law Wednesday , severely limiting Palestinian lawsuits for damages incurred in Israeli military operations .
The law limits suits brought in Israeli courts to just traffic accidents involving Israeli forces and instances where Palestinians are injured while in Israeli prisons .
Egypt has reported a second suspected human case of bird flu as Israel culls thousands of birds in an effort to contain an outbreak .
Egypt 's health ministry said Sunday a young man hospitalized since Thursday is suffering symptoms of the disease .
It said he kept a farm , north of Cairo , where a number of chickens died last Monday .
The report followed the death Friday in Egypt of a woman believed to have contracted the H5N1 strain of the virus .
In Israel , authorities say the situation is under control .
They are killing tens of thousands of birds to try to prevent the disease from spreading .
Bird flu has spread across parts of Europe , Africa and Asia , killing about 100 people since 2003 .
Health officials have warned it could mutate into a virus that can be easily transmitted between humans and create a global pandemic .
Chinese Vice President Zeng Qinghong says China 's imports have helped create 10 million jobs worldwide since it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001 .
Zeng made the comments during opening remarks Saturday at a regional meeting of politicians , business leaders and academics on China 's southern island of Hainan .
China 's official Xinhua News Agency quoted Zeng as saying that since 2001 it has annually imported nearly $ 500 billion worth of goods from around the world .
Xinhua says more than 850 participants from about 40 countries are attending the annual Boao Forum for Asia .
The meeting is expected to focus on topics including regional economic cooperation , the Doha round of WTO talks and other global issues .
Palestinian medical workers say an Israeli air strike on Gaza has killed a Palestinian militant and wounded two other people .
Medics said Monday that the air strike hit near the border , east of Gaza City .
An Israeli army spokeswoman said the strike targeted a militant who fired a rocket-powered grenade at Israeli soldiers near the border .
The militant was believed to have been a member of the group Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine .
Authorities in Tajikistan are tearing down advertisements for mobile telephones , after President Emomali Rakhmon criticized use of the devices .
The leader of the Central Asian nation says people are spending too much of their monthly income on mobile phone service .
President Rakhmon has also warned of potential health hazards stemming from mobile phone use .
More than 70 percent of Tajikistan 's population of more than seven million own mobile phones .
Tajik mobile phone companies say the restrictions on advertising and other measures will hurt the development of the mobile telecommunications industry which they say has been flourishing in the country .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez used his speech before the United Nations World Summit Thursday to lash out at the United States , saying the world body should move out of New York because of the war in Iraq .
President Chavez told the leaders gathered for the summit Thursday that there were never weapons of mass destruction in Iraq but that the United States still bombed the country .
He accused the United States of failing to respect the resolutions of the United Nations , and later characterized the United States as a " terrorist state " during a press conference .
The United States has had tense relations with the Chavez government .
The Venezuelan leader has repeatedly accused the United States of trying to topple his government , a charge Washington has denied .
The new archbishop of Warsaw has assumed his duties , three months after his predecessor admitted to being a communist-era informer and resigned .
More than 1,000 people attended Palm Sunday Mass today in Warsaw , where a Papal decree was read appointing Kazimierz Nycz , a former bishop in northern Poland , to the post .
Pope Benedict XVI appointed the cleric last month , after his previous choice , Stanislaw Wielgus , resigned , admitting he had worked with Poland 's dreaded communist-era police for two decades beginning in the 1960s .
In his admission , Wielgus expressed remorse and said he never informed on or sought to hurt anyone .
Polish President Lech Kaczynski and his brother Jaroslaw , the prime minister , have vowed to root out those in public life with close ties to the communist apparatus .
President Bush has invited representatives from 11 countries to a conference on global warming , to be held in Washington September 27-28 .
The White House says Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will host the meeting .
Attendees are expected to discuss a new strategy for global warming for 2012 , when the Kyoto agreement expires .
In his invitation letter , Mr. Bush said he hopes the group will agree to set new international limits on gas emissions , and work with businesses to help new environment-friendly technologies grow .
The Bush administration has long been accused of having an environmental policy that lags behind other nations .
The Kyoto Protocol was adopted in 1997 to limit the amount of so-called greenhouse gas emitted in industrialized countries .
The United States has never been a party to the agreement .
Mr. Bush invited representatives from the United Nations and European Union as well as the 11 individual nations .
Leaders of the the world 's richest nations have again pledged to help cut poverty and disease in Africa .
In a statement Sunday , leaders at the summit of the seven top industrialized nations plus Russia pledged to pursue existing efforts to increase debt relief and support aid work on the continent .
The statement also said the grouping will identify the next steps to be taken before next year 's summit in Germany .
Aid agencies welcomed the formal G-8 commitment not to let Africa issues fade from public view .
But an official from the British charity " Save the Children " urged G-8 countries to act more urgently .
Matt Phillips said the " fact that there have not been [ G-8 ] steps backward " will " be cold comfort to the 800 African families who lost a child today " because they could not afford a doctor .
U.S. President George Bush and French President Nicolas Sarkozy have reaffirmed their joint support for a peaceful Lebanon , and say it is important for the country to have diplomatic ties with Syria .
The two leaders issued a joint statement following talks in Paris Saturday calling for Syria and Lebanon to work towards a relationship based on " respect , equality , security and sovereignty . "
The French and American presidents have held different positions in regard to Syria .
Mr. Bush has repeatedly accused Damascus of supporting terrorism and fomenting violence in Lebanon .
But , Mr. Sarkozy has shown signs of warming relations with Syria , pledging to resume diplomatic ties that were suspended last year .
Mr. Sarkozy has also invited President Bashar al-Assad to attend France 's " Bastille Day " celebrations on July 14 , and plans to include Syria in a new Mediterranean Union .
Police in the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , detained at least 16 more activists Monday , who were protesting against King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power .
The protesters defied a ban on demonstrations and gathered near the Central Secretariat building , shouting slogans like " down with autocracy , we want democracy . "
Sunday , seven activists - all members of the Nepali Congress party - were arrested after staging a similar protest .
Meanwhile , the Nepalese army said Maoist rebels kidnapped and killed three unarmed soldiers in the eastern Ramechhap district Saturday .
Nepal 's king dismissed the government and assumed all powers on February first , saying the government had failed to stop the Maoist insurgency .
Rebels have been fighting nearly a decade to replace Nepal 's monarchy with a communist state .
Renowned Egyptian film maker Youssef Chahine , whose films reached beyond the Arab world , died early Sunday after several weeks in a coma .
He was 82 .
Chahine was born to a Lebanese Christian family in the port city of Alexandria , which was at that time a center of cosmopolitan life in the Mediterranean with its large foreign communities .
Throughout his more than 40 films , he tried to recapture the spirit of multiculturalism and tolerance that he grew up with there , because he saw it threatened by fundamentalism , dictatorship and imperialism .
Chahine 's films were popular internationally - particularly in France .
In 1997 he received a lifetime achievement award at the Cannes film festival .
His final film " Chaos " was released earlier this year .
Witnesses in southwestern Somalia say fighting between government troops and Islamist militants has killed at least 14 people .
The clash broke out Wednesday in the Bakool region , after government troops attacked a base belonging to the al-Shabab militant group in the Rabdhure district .
Heavy gunfire was exchanged and at least one vehicle was burned .
Another vehicle was reported to have been captured by the militants .
Al-Shabab controls much of southern and central Somalia after a two-year insurgency , and has moved to impose its own strict form of Islamic law in areas under its control .
Last week , Somalia 's cabinet voted to make Sharia the basis of Somalia 's legal system , in an effort to appease the insurgents .
The U.S. military in Iraq says one U.S. soldier has been killed and three others wounded in a bomb attack in the country 's north .
In a statement , the military said the bomb was detonated Monday near a military patrol near the town of Baquba .
The violence came as President Bush joined other world leaders in praising the results from Iraq 's national elections .
World leaders hailed the election results , but several also urged the winning parties not to worsen religious and ethnic tensions in the country .
The United Iraqi Alliance , a coalition of Shi'ite Muslim groups , won the biggest share of the eight million votes , but fell just short of an outright majority .
Iraq 's election commission says a Kurdish coalition finished second , with 25 percent .
Interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi and his allies ranked third , with 14 percent .
Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has formally endorsed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as the country 's next president .
The conservative Mr. Ahmadinejad , who won the June presidential elections , succeeds reformist President Mohammad Khatami , whose term ends Wednesday .
The new president will be sworn-in before parliament Saturday .
He takes office at a time when Iran is under mounting western pressure over its nuclear ambitions .
Mr. Ahmadinejad , a former mayor of Tehran , says " access to nuclear technology is Iran 's inalienable right . "
The 49-year-old Mr. Ahmadinejad is also a former member of the hard-line Revolutionary Guard and a former instructor of the Basij religious vigilantes .
Monday marks the 30th anniversary of the barcode .
Barcodes are the symbols that appear on goods in 155 countries that help clerks speed customer purchases , and help companies keep track of inventory .
Barcodes are a series of lines and numbers that machine scanners can read and identify exactly what product is being sold and how much it costs .
More than 100 nations have groups that issue unique barcodes to one million companies around the world .
And scanners read those barcodes about 10 billion times each day .
The non-profit group that issues barcodes in the United States says the first barcoded item scanned and sold was a package of chewing gum , which is now in a museum .
Australia 's cricket team has a 179-run lead over India after the second day of their first test match in Melbourne .
The hosts started the day Thursday at 337-9 and were soon all out for 343 .
But Australian bowlers Stuart Clark and Brett Lee made sure India was not able to get its offense going , with both men taking four wickets .
Clark ( 4-28 ) took two wickets from three balls either side of the tea break .
Lee ( 4-46 ) knocked out India 's lower order on the rapidly deteriorating Melbourne Cricket Ground pitch .
The visitors managed only 196 all out in their first innings .
Australia then scored 32 without loss in its second innings .
This is the first of four tests between the two countries .
Australia and India will also play a triangular series that also features Sri Lanka beginning February 3rd .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say suspected Islamic militants have attacked a remote police station , triggering a gunbattle that left two militants , one policeman and one civilian dead .
Police say the ambush occurred late Sunday in southern Poonch province near the Pakistani border .
They say the rebels hurled grenades and used machine guns in the attack , which led to a three-hour shoot-out .
Kashmiri militants continue their attacks against government targets , as India and Pakistan inch forward in their 18-month peace process aimed at resolving all their disputes , including Kashmir .
Militant groups have been fighting for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan since 1989 .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
France 's presidential election finalists are to debate Wednesday , in a two-hour , televised event ahead of this Sunday 's vote .
The debate between conservative frontrunner Nicholas Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal begins at 9:00 p.m. local time ( 1900 UTC ) and is expected to draw more than 20 million French viewers - an audience size usually reserved for World Cup soccer finals .
The latest opinion poll shows Sarkozy maintaining at least a four percentage point lead over Royal .
On Tuesday , the fourth-place finisher in the April 22 first-round vote , ultra-conservative Jean-Marie Le Pen , urged his supporters to boycott the run-off election .
The third-place finisher , centrist Francois Bayrou , has not formally backed either candidate .
Egyptian officials say Somali pirates have released an Egyptian cargo ship and its 28-member crew after more than two months in captivity .
The officials say the cargo ship Blue Star was released Thursday following negotiations with the captors .
It is not clear whether a ransom was paid .
The officials say the ship was seized on New Year 's Day by 15 pirates as it passed by the coast of Somalia .
The vessel carried a cargo of 6,000 tons of fertilizer .
Somali pirates hijacked more than 40 ships in 2008 , sometimes getting millions of dollars in ransom for their release .
The attacks have prompted a number of countries , including the United States and China , to begin conducting naval patrols near Somalia .
The ships have stopped several pirate attacks , most recently on Tuesday , when the crew of a German frigate arrested nine pirates who had fired on a cargo ship .
Algerian officials say the All Africa Games are continuing as planned in Algiers despite a suicide bomb attack near the capital on Wednesday .
Officials say security would be stepped up around the competition sites .
Before the opening ceremony Wednesday , a suicide bomber killed at least eight soldiers and wounded 35 others in Lakhdaria , a village east of the capital , Algiers .
The al-Qaida Organization in the Islamic Maghreb , formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat has claimed responsibility for the bombing .
The group also claimed responsibility for a number of attacks that have rocked the region , including two car bombings in April that killed 33 people .
The All Africa Games are a regional multi-sport event held every four years .
Competing athletes must be from the African continent .
The competition is set to last until July 23 .
Health officials in Thailand say a 27-year-old man has died of bird flu .
He is the second person the virus has killed in the country this year .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization , the case would raise Thailand 's bird flu death toll to 16 people since the virus began spreading in Asia in late 2003 .
Thai authorities say the latest victim of the H5N1 virus died Thursday in the central province of Uthai Thani , after burying a sick chicken .
They say the man 's wife is taking anti-viral medication and is being monitored .
In his radio address Saturday , Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra called on farmers to report promptly any suspected cases of bird flu in their flocks .
The WHO says bird flu has killed at least 134 people worldwide since 2003 .
Turkish authorities say a security officer and a Kurdish rebel have been killed in clashes in the country 's mainly Kurdish southeast .
They say the two died in Siirt province Tuesday .
Authorities say the rebel was a member of the banned Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK .
The violence is the latest in southeastern Turkey .
In March , clashes erupted at funerals for some of the 14 Kurdish guerrillas killed by Turkish security forces in Diyarbakir .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's southeastern region since 1984 .
More than 30,000 people have been killed .
The PKK guerrillas are based mainly in the mountains of southeastern Turkey and northern Iraq .
President Bush has used his weekly radio address to urge Congress to do more to ease the economic worries of many Americans .
The president Saturday said even though the economy is growing , American families are concerned with rising energy prices and the cost of health care .
The president praised Congress for passing recent energy and tax bills .
But he said he was disappointed in a spending bill that he signed earlier this week .
He said the $ 555 billion budget bill was loaded with wasteful special interest items , mentioning a prison museum and a sailing school .
The president said his resolution for the New Year is to work with Congress to keep the economy growing , to keep taxes low and to ensure Washington spends money wisely .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court has invalidated the results of the country 's presidential runoff , and called for a new vote in three weeks .
Friday 's decision comes as tens of thousands of opposition supporters rally in Kiev protesting the disputed November 21 runoff vote .
Election officials had declared Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the winner of the election , prompting massive demonstrations .
Opposition challenger Viktor Yushchenko and international monitors said massive fraud occurred .
Demonstrators clad in orange , the color of the opposition , massed outside the court Friday to await the decision , while thousands of others continued to gather in Kiev main 's square .
Ukraine 's outgoing president , Leonid Kuchma , said Thursday in Kiev he supports holding entirely new elections .
He met earlier outside Moscow with Russian President Vladimir Putin , who said he does not support redoing the runoff .
A suicide car bomber in northern Iraq has killed at least 20 people at the funeral of a local Kurdish official .
The blast in Tal Afar wounded 30 others taking part in the funeral procession .
In Baghdad , insurgents gunned down five Iraqi policemen at a checkpoint Sunday .
And a car bomber killed four Iraqis in an attack on a U.S. military convoy .
In other developments , a new video shows a bound blond-haired man claiming to be a 63-year-old Australian national surrounded by gunmen and urging coalition forces to leave Iraq .
Authorities are working to authenticate the tape .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say five suspects arrested in the kidnapping and murder of British aid worker Margaret Hassan have admitted involvement in her death .
He says they were detained early Sunday south of Baghdad .
Bolivia , named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR , broke away from Spanish rule in 1825 ; much of its subsequent history has consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and countercoups .
Democratic civilian rule was established in 1982 , but leaders have faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty , social unrest , and illegal drug production .
In December 2005 , Bolivians elected Movement Toward Socialism leader Evo MORALES president - by the widest margin of any leader since the restoration of civilian rule in 1982 - after he ran on a promise to change the country 's traditional political class and empower the nation 's poor , indigenous majority .
However , since taking office , his controversial strategies have exacerbated racial and economic tensions between the Amerindian populations of the Andean west and the non-indigenous communities of the eastern lowlands .
In December 2009 , President MORALES easily won reelection , and his party took control of the legislative branch of the government , which will allow him to continue his process of change .
Chinese agricultural authorities have reported an outbreak of bird flu among poultry in Tibet .
China 's official Xinhua News Agency says the outbreak occurred in Tibet 's Gongga county , which lies about 50 kilometers outside the capital , Lhasa .
Xinhua says the outbreak , of the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus , had been suspected since January 25 , and was confirmed Tuesday .
The Ministry of Agriculture says efforts are underway to contain the outbreak .
One thousand birds have died from the virus , more than 1,300 others have been culled to prevent it from spreading .
No human infections have been reported .
Bird flu remains difficult for humans to catch but scientists worry it could mutate into a form that passes easily between people .
The World Health Organization says the bird flu virus has killed more than 200 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Iraqi police in Kirkuk say a suicide car bomber struck a funeral service for a Shi'ite soldier , killing at least four people and wounding some 25 others .
Officials said the bomber drove into the middle of the service before detonating a blast .
Also Thursday , the prime minister and president of Romania publicly disagreed about a proposal to withdraw the country 's 890 troops from Iraq .
Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu proposed a withdrawal because of the human and financial cost of the deployment .
But President Traian Basescu called the idea " unacceptable . "
Under Romanian law , the country 's Supreme Defense Council , chaired by the president , has the power to decide on a withdrawal .
The president said the prime minister 's statement would hurt Romania 's credibility abroad .
The Holy See is supported financially by a variety of sources , including investments , real estate income , and donations from Catholic individuals , dioceses , and institutions ; these help fund the Roman Curia ( Vatican bureaucracy ) , diplomatic missions , and media outlets .
The separate Vatican City State budget includes the Vatican museums and post office and is supported financially by the sale of stamps , coins , medals , and tourist mementos ; by fees for admission to museums ; and by publications sales .
Moreover , an annual collection taken up in dioceses and direct donations go to a non-budgetary fund known as Peter 's Pence , which is used directly by the Pope for charity , disaster relief , and aid to churches in developing nations .
The incomes and living standards of lay workers are comparable to those of counterparts who work in the city of Rome .
Iran has rejected a request from European nations to briefly delay their submission of proposals intended to resolve a dispute over Tehran 's nuclear program .
Iran 's nuclear negotiator said Saturday that the European Union had requested extending Monday 's deadline until the following Sunday , but Iran rejects any delay .
He also expressed concern that the proposals , a package of economic and political incentives , would not meet Iran 's basic expectations .
The Europeans want Iran to agree to a permanent suspension of its uranium enrichment program , which can be used for both generating electricity , but in certain forms can fuel nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes , but the United States accuses Tehran of trying secretly to develop nuclear weapons .
A powerful storm has smashed apart Russian oil tanker anchored between the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov , creating what some experts are calling an environmental catastrophe .
As much as 2,000 metric tons of fuel oil spilled into the Kerch Strait off Ukraine .
Some officials believe it could take several years to clean up .
The Volganeft-139 was anchored in the strait several kilometers from land to ride out the storm .
Huge waves split the tanker in two .
Thirteen crewmembers were rescued .
The storm also sank four other cargo ships - three of which were carrying sulfur .
At least eight people from the other ships are still missing .
The Kerch Strait is a major migration route for birds and is also home to porpoises .
Prosecutors have opened an investigation into possible criminal charges .
Russian human rights advocates and liberal politicians gathered in Moscow Monday to criticize President Vladimir Putin and call for unity by opposition groups .
Speakers at the congress slammed Mr. Putin for decisions they say are steadily moving Russia back into an authoritarian state .
Among those attending were former world chess champion Gary Kasparov and ex-Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov .
Russia 's political liberals are gearing up for the 2007 parliamentary elections and the 2008 presidential election .
Meanwhile , Mr. Putin made a surprise visit to Chechnya Monday to attend the opening of the troubled province 's new parliament .
The president traveled to the capital city of Grozny by helicopter .
Thousands of Russian troops have died in continued fighting with Chechen rebels since Mr. Putin assumed power in 1999 .
Security officials in Pakistan say shots were fired at the plane of Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf after the craft took off from a military base in Rawalpindi .
The plane was not hit , and General Musharraf landed safely in southern Pakistan , where he spoke to victims of recent floods .
An Army spokesman , Major General Waheed Arshad , says the government is trying to figure out who fired the shots , but insists that the president 's plane was not the intended target .
However , other Pakistani officials called the incident an unsuccessful attack on the president 's plane .
Officials say the shots were from a machine gun .
Police found two anti-aircraft guns on a nearby roof .
In other news , a suicide bomb attack in northwestern Pakistan has killed at least four Pakistani soldiers in a military convoy .
Suspected leftist rebels in Colombia have killed at least a dozen coca growers in the northwestern part of the country .
A local official says members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , killed 11 men and one woman during an attack Wednesday near Puerto Valdivia .
The FARC relies on coca , which is used to make cocaine , for much of its funding .
It often kills peasants who refuse to cooperate or sell their product to rightwing paramilitaries .
The FARC and a smaller leftist rebel group are locked in a long-running war against the government and rightist paramilitaries that leaves thousands of people dead each year .
The Central Intelligence Agency , CIA , says Iraq has become a magnet for international terrorist activity and provides an ideal training ground for terrorists to enhance their skills .
In a report on long-term global trends released Thursday , the CIA says political Islam will have a significant impact in the next 15 years , rallying disparate ethnic and national groups and possibly creating an authority that transcends national boundaries .
It says al-Qaida will likely be superseded by other Islamic extremist groups that merge with local separatist movements .
The CIA says the prospect of a biological or nuclear weapons attack remains the greatest danger facing the United States .
Analysts also say globalization will be the dominant force in the next 15 years and will generate enormous economic , cultural and political changes across the planet .
Fighting between suspected Taleban rebels and U.S.-coalition and Afghan troops has left seven insurgents dead , while a rebel attack on a medical clinic left a doctor and his six colleagues dead .
Police say the attack on the independently run clinic occurred in Khost province , bordering Pakistan .
Suspected Taleban rebels broke into the building and shot the seven victims late Tuesday night .
Also on Tuesday , officials say seven insurgents were killed in a clash that broke out on the border between the southern provinces of Kandahar and Uruzgan after the rebels attacked a joint Afghan-coalition patrol .
The officials say four Afghan soldiers were wounded in the fighting , which ended with the insurgents fleeing into nearby mountains , carrying their wounded .
Several rebels were captured .
Iraq 's prime minister-designate has completed his list of proposed cabinet members after three months of political negotiations .
Ibrahim al-Jaafari presented the list to President Jalal Talabani Tuesday .
The three-member presidential council must approve the list , before it can go to the 275-member national assembly for a vote of approval .
Iraqi officials and state television report that the country 's majority Shi'ites will get 17 cabinet seats , while the Kurds , who came second in the elections , will get eight .
The Sunnis , who mostly boycotted the vote , will get only six seats .
And the tiny Christian minority will have one seat .
The party of interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi , which won 40 seats in the assembly , was apparently shut out of the new government .
In addition , Mr. Jaafari has named three deputy prime ministers - a Shi'ite , a Kurd and a Sunni .
Some experts say the worst of the recession may be over , but others are pessimistic about the economic outlook .
A survey of economists by the Bloomberg financial news service projects U.S. unemployment will rise further this year , from 8.9 to 9.6 percent .
These experts also expect the world 's largest economy to get smaller at a 1.9 percent annual pace in April , May and June , and gradually switch to modest growth later this year .
Nobel prize-winning economist Paul Krugman says the U.S. and other governments need to do more than the current set of stimulus packages and interest rate cuts .
He says half-measures will do too little to help banks and boost growth .
But the head of the European Central Bank , Jean-Claude Trichet , said Monday that the global economy has weathered the worst of the recession and is ready to turn upward .
Israeli President Shimon Peres says tensions between Israel and Syria are now " over , " and Israel is ready to negotiate for peace with Syria .
Mr. Peres made the comment to foreign reporters Tuesday in Israel .
Monday , Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert also said Israel was ready to negotiate with Syria .
The developments come less than two weeks after Syria accused Israel of launching an air strike inside Syria .
Israel has refused to comment on the matter .
Media reports have suggested the air strike either targeted Iranian arms destined for Lebanese Hezbollah guerrillas , or a nuclear facility in Syria built with North Korean technology .
Last week , Syria protested to the United Nations about the incident and accused Israel of aggression .
Peace talks between Syria and Israel collapsed in 2000 .
Vice President Dick Cheney was briefly examined at a Washington hospital Tuesday after experiencing discomfort in his left leg , where a blood clot was discovered earlier this month .
Cheney 's office says the doctors conducted another ultrasound image of the clot in his leg , which showed there was no extension or complication of the clot .
Doctors say Cheney 's blood thinning medication is working .
The vice president later returned to the White House to resume his schedule .
Cheney has had four heart attacks , although none since taking office in 2001 .
The blood clot was discovered shortly after Cheney returned from a trip that took him to Australia and South Asia .
Doctors say there is an increased risk of developing blood clots from long flights because of prolonged periods of immobility .
Police in Washington briefly closed the landmark Washington Monument Friday because of a bomb threat .
Authorities evacuated the monument and the surrounding area after the threat was phoned in to Washington police .
An official with the National Park Police declined in a television interview to elaborate on the threat to the 170-meter tall monument , which is a popular tourist attraction on the National Mall near the White House .
Russia 's President Vladimir Putin was meeting President Bush at the White House Friday for talks on bilateral and global issues .
White House officials have said the talks will focus on deepening the U.S.-Russian partnership to face current challenges and opportunities .
Relations between the two leaders have been strained recently by differences over Iran 's nuclear program .
Mr. Putin supports Iran 's right to develop nuclear technology , while Mr. Bush warns that the Islamic republic may be seeking nuclear weapons .
Mr. Putin traveled to Washington after addressing the United Nations World Summit in New York on Thursday .
In his speech , he warned terrorism is the main threat to human rights and development , and called on the United Nations to be the center for international anti-terrorism efforts .
Indonesia , a vast polyglot nation , has weathered the global financial crisis relatively smoothly because of its heavy reliance on domestic consumption as the driver of economic growth .
Increasing investment by both local and foreign investors is also supporting solid growth .
Although the economy slowed to 4.5 % growth in 2009 from the 6 %-plus growth rate recorded in 2007 and 2008 , by 2010 growth returned to a 6 % rate .
During the recession , Indonesia outperformed most of its regional neighbors .
The government made economic advances under the first administration of President YUDHOYONO , introducing significant reforms in the financial sector , including tax and customs reforms , the use of Treasury bills , and capital market development and supervision .
Indonesia 's debt-to-GDP ratio in recent years has declined steadily because of increasingly robust GDP growth and sound fiscal stewardship , leading two of the three leading credit agencies to upgrade credit ratings for Indonesia 's sovereign debt to one notch below investment grade .
Indonesia still struggles with poverty and unemployment , inadequate infrastructure , corruption , a complex regulatory environment , and unequal resource distribution among regions .
YUDHOYONO and his vice president , respected economist BOEDIONO , have maintained broad continuity of economic policy , although the economic reform agenda has been slowed during the first year of their term by corruption scandals and the departure of an internationally respected finance minister .
In late 2010 , increasing inflation , driven by higher and volatile food prices , posed an increasing challenge to economic policymakers and threatened to push millions of the near-poor below the poverty line .
The government in 2011 faces the ongoing challenge of improving Indonesia 's infrastructure to remove impediments to growth , while addressing climate change concerns , particularly with regard to conserving Indonesia 's forests and peatlands , the focus of a potentially trailblazing $ 1 billion REDD+ pilot project .
Estonia , a 2004 European Union entrant , has a modern market-based economy and one of the higher per capita income levels in Central Europe and the Baltic region .
Estonia 's successive governments have pursued a free market , pro-business economic agenda and have wavered little in their commitment to pro-market reforms .
The current government has followed relatively sound fiscal policies that have resulted in balanced budgets and very low public debt .
The economy benefits from strong electronics and telecommunications sectors and strong trade ties with Finland , Sweden , and Germany .
Tallinn 's priority has been to sustain high growth rates - on average 8 % per year from 2003 to 2007 .
Estonia 's economy slowed down markedly and fell sharply into recession in mid-2008 , primarily as a result of an investment and consumption slump following the bursting of the real estate market bubble .
GDP dropped nearly 14 % in 2009 , among the world 's highest rates of contraction .
Rising exports to Sweden and Finland lead an economic recovery in 2010 , but unemployment stands above 17 % .
Estonia joined the OECD in December 2010 and adopted the euro in January 2011 .
Belarus 's Foreign Ministry has dismissed the latest U.S.-imposed sanctions aimed at freezing the U.S. assets of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and other government officials .
A Foreign Ministry spokesman , Andrei Popov , Tuesday accused the United States of pursuing what he called " an old goal " of spreading false information about Belarus .
President Bush signed an executive order for the sanctions on Monday .
The move also bars Americans and U.S. companies from doing business with Mr. Lukashenko and nine other officials .
The European Union froze Mr. Lukashenko 's assets in Europe last month and joined the United States in imposing a travel ban on Belarusian senior government officials .
President Lukashenko was elected to a third term in March in a vote the West called fraudulent .
Comoros has endured more than 20 coups or attempted coups since gaining independence from France in 1975 .
In 1997 , the islands of Anjouan and Moheli declared independence from Comoros .
In 1999 , military chief Col. AZALI seized power in a bloodless coup , and helped negotiate the 2000 Fomboni Accords power-sharing agreement in which the federal presidency rotates among the three islands , and each island maintains its own local government .
AZALI won the 2002 presidential election , and each island in the archipelago elected its own president .
AZALI stepped down in 2006 and President SAMBI was elected to office .
In 2007 , Mohamed BACAR effected Anjouan 's de-facto secession from the Union , refusing to step down in favor of fresh Anjouanais elections when Comoros ' other islands held legitimate elections in July .
The African Union ( AU ) initially attempted to resolve the political crisis by applying sanctions and a naval blockade on Anjouan , but in March 2008 , AU and Comoran soldiers seized the island .
The move was generally welcomed by the island 's inhabitants .
A major Chinese oil company , CNOOC , has given up an $ 18.5 billion bid to take over the U.S.-based Unocal oil company .
It would have been the largest-ever Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company .
With oil prices at record-high levels , the bid sparked opposition from members of the U.S. Congress .
Some politicians said losing control of some U.S.-owned oil assets could harm the nation 's economy and security .
The parent company of CNOOC is controlled by the Chinese government .
A statement on the company web site said its interests are " purely commercial " and called the political opposition " unjustified " and harmful to Unocal shareholders and employees .
Ending CNOOC 's bid leaves Chevron as the only bidder for Unocal .
Chinese state media say the most famous Buddhist temple in Tibet has opened its doors again to worshippers .
Chinese authorities shut down the Jokhang Temple , in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa , after a series of protests by Tibetan monks in March .
The protests , initially peacefully , eventually led to violent clashes between the monks and Chinese authorities .
The Xinhua news agency said the temple had reopened Friday .
The agency reported that an estimated 400 Buddhist pilgrims and 40 tourists had visited the temple within hours after it opened again .
China has accused the Dalai Lama , Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , of provoking unrest as part of a bid for Tibetan independence .
The Dalai Lama says that he wants autonomy , but not independence , for the region .
Pakistani authorities have raided offices of two Afghan trading firms suspected of providing funds to leaders of Taleban insurgents and frozen their bank accounts .
Pakistani officials say the raids by government agents in the northwestern city of Peshawar and in the capital , Islamabad , occurred on Tuesday .
They say the agents seized documents indicating the firms ' involvement in transferring money to the Taleban .
The authorities now are trying to determine whether the funds were being channeled to the Taleban 's reclusive leader , Mullah Omar .
Tuesday 's raids came the same day as a meeting in Washington between President Bush and Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , in which the two sides vowed to continue working closely to defeat terrorism .
A major oil company will not sign an agreement to give majority control of its oil operations in Venezuela to the government of President Hugo Chavez .
ConocoPhillips has refused to accept Venezuela 's terms for compensation for its investments .
News reports say ExxonMobil also will decline the deal .
President Chavez gave foreign oil companies until Tuesday to agree to give the government a 60 percent share of their operations .
Those facilities are said to be worth $ 25 billion or more , and some companies complain the compensation offered is too low .
ConocoPhillips and ExxonMobil may seek arbitration or court action to resolve the dispute .
The Wall Street Journal cites unnamed sources and says it is not yet clear how other companies will respond .
Venezuela has already taken over foreign companies ' assets in the telecommunications and electricity sectors .
Gunmen killed at least 12 people at a house party in Ciudad Juarez , Mexico Friday , the latest act of brutality in a border city known as a battleground for drug gangs .
Local media report a group of armed men arrived at the house in several vehicles and opened fire on party-goers .
At least 10 people were wounded in the attack , including a child .
Ciudad Juarez sits just across the border from the U.S. city of El~Paso , Texas .
More than 6,000 people have been killed in the last three years in the Mexican city where the Juarez and Sinaloa drug cartels battle with Mexican police and military forces that are trying to stop their illegal operations .
It was not immediately clear whether the latest violence was related to the drug war .
Preliminary election results from the West Bank indicate the mainstream Fatah faction is leading in the first Palestinian municipal elections since 1976 despite a strong showing by the militant Islamic group Hamas .
Some 150,000 eligible voters cast ballots Thursday in 26 West Bank localities .
Official results are expected Saturday .
In the coming months , similar elections are due to be held in stages in the rest of the Palestinian territories .
Thursday 's vote was seen as a test of popularity between Fatah and Hamas .
Hamas has already said it will not participate in the Palestinian presidential elections set for January 9 .
Former Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas , Fatah 's candidate , leads that race .
Elsewhere in the West Bank , Israeli and Palestinian officials say Israeli troops killed three members of the militant Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
Italy became a nation-state in 1861 when the regional states of the peninsula , along with Sardinia and Sicily , were united under King Victor EMMANUEL II .
An era of parliamentary government came to a close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI established a Fascist dictatorship .
His alliance with Nazi Germany led to Italy 's defeat in World War II .
A democratic republic replaced the monarchy in 1946 and economic revival followed .
Italy was a charter member of NATO and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) .
It has been at the forefront of European economic and political unification , joining the Economic and Monetary Union in 1999 .
Persistent problems include illegal immigration , organized crime , corruption , high unemployment , sluggish economic growth , and the low incomes and technical standards of southern Italy compared with the prosperous north .
AT&T fired President John Walter after nine months , saying he lacked intellectual leadership .
He received a $ 26 million severance package .
Perhaps it 's not Walter who 's lacking intelligence .
Five Philippine legislators accused of plotting a coup against the president have emerged from the Congress building where they took refuge more than two months ago .
Hundreds of supporters cheered the left-wing lawmakers Monday as they walked out of the House of Representatives after a 70-day standoff with the government .
The five hid in the building to avoid being taken into custody for their alleged role in a failed plot in February to overthrow President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo .
On Thursday , a court dismissed rebellion charges against them on technical grounds .
The government says it does not rule out refiling a case against the lawmakers .
Pakistani authorities say they have arrested two suspected suicide bombers who were allegedly planning to attack a mosque and government buildings in the capital , Islamabad .
Bin Amin , a senior police official in the capital , says authorities are looking for others who may be involved in the alleged plot .
He told the Associated Press the men were linked to the Pakistani Taliban in the country 's South Waziristan region .
The alleged plot was set to be carried out in an exclusive and high security neighborhood in Islamabad , where many foreign embassies , Pakistan 's parliament and government ministries are located .
The last terrorist attack in Islamabad took place in October 2009 , when a suicide bomber killed five U.N. staffers at the Islamabad office of the World Food Program .
In September 2008 a massive truck bomb destroyed Islamabad 's Marriott Hotel killing at least 60 people .
Officials in Kyrgyzstan say they have detained about 50 people after hundreds of looters tore through a Kurdish village to protest the rape of a four year-old Russian girl .
Officials said Monday the group is being held on charges of mass disorder .
The riots began Sunday after news spread that a Kurdish suspect in the rape was being held in the village of Petrovka .
Ethnic Russian and Kyrgyz protesters charged through the village , smashing windows and overturning cars belonging to ethnic Kurds .
Interior Minister spokesman Bakyt Seitov says the situation is under control .
Officials say such ethnic clashes are rare in Kyrgyzstan , a former Soviet republic where Turkic-speaking groups live along side Russians , Chinese and others .
Sudanese officials have opened a new oil pipeline expected to raise the country 's output to at least 500,000 barrels of oil per day .
Government ministers attended a launch ceremony for the pipeline in the town of Fallouj on Monday .
The 1,400 kilometer pipeline will carry oil from wells in Sudan 's southeast to Port Sudan on the Red Sea .
Revenue will be split between the northern and southern governments , which signed a wealth-sharing agreement as part of the peace deal that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war last year .
The pipeline is run by Petrodar , a conglomerate owned mainly by China 's National Petroleum Corporation and Malaysia 's Petronas .
Companies in Dubai and Sudan and another Chinese firm own smaller shares .
China is the world 's second-largest energy consumer after the United States , and has become a major investor in Sudan as it seeks foreign sources of oil .
The U.S. city of Los Angeles in the western state of California , and two Indian film industry groups have signed an agreement to boost cooperation between the U.S. and Indian moviemaking industries .
The Motion Picture Association of America announced the deal late Wednesday in Los Angeles .
At the signing of the deal , Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said the declaration reinforces the city 's commitment to attracting international production .
The U.S. and Indian film industries , known as Hollywood and Bollywood respectively , dominate the world of moviemaking .
The Hindi films My Name is Khan and Kiteswere recently filmed in Los Angeles .
Representatives of the two industries agreed earlier this year to fight movie piracy , which is common in India .
A new report issued by the South African government indicates more than six million people in the country are HIV-positive , a much higher figure than previously thought .
The Department of Health says a study of women at pre-natal clinics in 2004 suggests that about six and a half million South Africans carry the virus that causes AIDS .
The figures are in marked contrast to a study earlier this year by the State Statistical Agency , which estimated that about four and a half million South Africans are infected with HIV .
Business Day newspaper quotes the Health Department 's head of health monitoring and evaluation , Lindy Makubalo as saying the variation in estimates is due to differences in methodology .
She says the Health Department follows methodology developed by the United Nations .
Venezuela says it hopes to sign a new agreement with the United States next month on anti-drug cooperation .
Venezuelan anti-drug chief Luis Correa said Monday the deal will be signed around July 8 .
The U.S. Embassy in Caracas said the two sides are close to an agreement .
Reports say Venezuela wants the new accord to restrict U.S. agents operating in the Andean country but ensure cooperation in the areas of information-sharing , technology and training .
Last August , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez accused the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration of spying on his government under the guise of fighting drug trafficking and suspended cooperation with the agency .
The U.S. government responded by revoking the visas of three Venezuelan military officers suspected of involvement in drug trafficking .
In September , the U.S. government said Venezuela had " failed demonstrably " to adhere to its obligations under international anti-narcotics agreements .
A new poll indicates U.S. public opinion of President Bush 's handling of the war in Iraq has hit a new low .
A survey by the U.S. publication Newsweek magazine indicates that 61 percent disapprove of his effort , with only 34 percent of those polled expressing approval .
The findings , which echo other recent polls , represent the lowest rating yet on Mr. Bush 's handling of Iraq .
The president 's overall approval rating dropped to 42 percent , while 51 percent of Americans answering the poll said they do not like the way he is handling the job .
Supporters have expressed concern Mr. Bush 's plummeting poll numbers and rising U.S. death toll in Iraq will affect next year 's congressional elections .
Hours after 14 U.S. Marines were killed in Iraq last week , President Bush said American troops will remain in the country until Iraqi forces can deal with the insurgency .
Irish physicians have recorded what they believe is the country 's first case of the human variant of mad cow disease , a fatal brain-wasting illness .
Physicians said Wednesday in Dublin that tests on a man in his early 20s have confirmed he is most likely suffering from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease .
The illness is the human form of the brain-wasting disease in cattle known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy .
Physicians say humans usually contract the human form of the illness by eating contaminated beef .
The illness has killed more than 100 people in Europe , most of them in Britain , since the mid-1990s .
The only previous case in Ireland involved a young woman who had spent much of her time in Britain .
President Bush and other world leaders are welcoming the formation of an Iraqi government , months after the country 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Bush issued a statement Saturday saying Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's government marks the end of Iraq 's difficult and inspiring democratic transitional process .
Mr. Bush added that the United States and freedom-loving nations will stand with Iraq as it takes its place among the world 's democracies .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair called the new government a huge step forward .
Italian officials also congratulated Iraq on its new government .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan praised Iraqis for their determination in forming a government despite violence across the country .
In a written statement , he voiced hope the government will quickly address crucial issues , including security , reconstruction and the respect of human rights .
Indian Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee will now run the foreign ministry , after a Cabinet reshuffle that brings in three new faces .
The new defense minister will be A.K. Antony , a former chief minister of the southern Indian state of Kerala .
Also sworn in as junior ministers were M.H. Ambareesh , a film actor-turned Congress politician , and Jayprakash Narain Yadav of the government 's coalition partner , Rashtriya Janata Dal .
The crucial foreign ministry post fell vacant last November when then-minister Natwar Singh was charged with receiving kickbacks in the investigation of the UN oil-for-food program in Iraq .
This reshuffle takes the number of ministers in the three-level Cabinet to 80 .
It has 34 ministers , seven deputy ministers and 39 junior ministers .
Haitian police have killed a prominent rebel wanted in connection with the murder of four police officers earlier in the year .
Officials said Sunday Jean Rene Anthony was killed in a shootout with police near the capital city of Port-au-Prince .
The gunbattle came a day after another rebel leader , Remissaninthe Ravix , was killed in a shootout with Haitian authorities .
Mr. Ravix , the self-proclaimed leader of Haiti 's disbanded military , was one of four leaders of a February 2004 revolt that forced Mr. Aristide to flee the country .
Haitian officials had been searching for the two men in recent weeks in connection with several police killings .
The leader of the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas is warning of a new uprising against Israel if an agreement for a Palestinian state is not reached in six months .
In Egypt Saturday , Khaled Meshaal said Western nations should help negotiate a Palestinian state based on borders that existed before the 1967 Middle East War .
He said Palestinians and Arab states agree on the borders which would include the West Bank and Gaza Strip in a future Palestinian state .
Israel rejects the pre-war borders as the basis for a peace settlement .
Meshaal has been meeting Egyptian officials in Cairo to discuss forming a Palestinian unity government .
They also are discussing negotiations for the release of an Israeli soldier kidnapped by Hamas militants .
Egyptian mediators are to fly to Israel for talks in the coming days .
A South Korean newspaper reports that a North Korean spy entered the South in 2003 by pretending to be an asylum-seeker .
South Korea 's JoongAng Ilbo reports the North Korean joined a group of refugees who entered the South Korean Embassy in Beijing in 2002 .
The newspaper says he spent more than a year in South Korea , collecting information on Seoul 's handling of refugees .
Officials in Seoul say the man returned to North Korea in April , then came back to the South a month later , where he surrendered to authorities .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency quotes government officials as saying they are investigating the 28-year-old on suspicion of spying for North Korea , but they doubt he actually conveyed any sensitive information .
Iraq 's controversial deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Chalabi is meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice Wednesday in Washington .
The meeting comes as Democratic U.S. lawmakers are asking Mr. Chalabi to discuss pre-war Iraq intelligence he provided about Saddam Hussein 's weapons that later proved faulty .
Mr. Chalabi is also accused last year of passing U.S. intelligence to Iran , and in 2004 U.S. forces raided his Baghdad offices .
Despite the allegations , U.S. State Department spokesman Adam Ereli said Tuesday U.S. officials regularly meet with Mr. Chalabi in his capacity as a representative of Iraq 's government .
Later Wednesday , Mr. Chalabi delivers a speech at a conservative public policy organization , the American Enterprise Institute .
It will be his first public speech in the United States in more than two years .
Israel 's Defense minister says Israeli troops will withdraw from Palestinian cities for 72 hours during January 's Palestinian presidential election .
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz says troops will be absent from cities in the Palestinian territories from the day before the vote through the day after to help ensure the election goes smoothly .
Earlier , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said any talks with Palestinian leaders depend on whether they can stop militant attacks such as the huge explosion in Gaza Sunday that killed five Israeli soldiers and wounded five others .
Mr. Sharon said Monday Israel wants to move toward peace , but sees no corresponding movement by the Palestinian side .
Two Palestinian militant groups , Hamas and the Fatah Hawks , have claimed responsibility for detonating more than a ton of explosives in a tunnel beneath an Israeli army post .
Prosecutors in Kenya have charged a man with illegal possession of weapons just one day after he was acquitted of murder in the 2002 suicide bombing of an Israeli hotel .
Prosecutors accused Omar Said Omar Friday of possessing an assortment of firearms , including missile launchers and rifles .
Mr. Omar denied the charges .
The prosecution said Mr. Omar should be denied bail .
But defense lawyers said it would not be fair to keep Mr. Omar in jail , noting that he already was held for nearly two years on charges that ultimately were dismissed .
A ruling on bail is expected Monday .
A Kenyan judge said Thursday there was not sufficient evidence to link Mr. Omar to the 2002 bombing of an Israeli owned hotel in Mombasa that killed at least 15 people .
Three other Kenyans also were acquitted .
Following her crucial victory in the Democratic Party U.S. presidential primary in ( the northeastern state of ) Pennsylvania , Senator Hillary Clinton says she is still the best candidate to defeat the presumptive Republican nominee , Senator John McCain , in the general election .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has the story .
At least 13 people have been wounded by a powerful explosion near an Indian military camp in Srinagar , summer capital of Indian Kashmir .
Witnesses say at least five Indian soldiers were among the injured .
Police say the blast was caused by a car bomb .
It is unclear who carried out Tuesday 's attack .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , and rebel groups have been fighting for the region 's independence from India , or its merger with Pakistan , since 1989 .
The explosion came hours after top diplomats from India and Pakistan resumed peace talks in New Delhi .
Canadian officials say Japan is banning all poultry exports from Canada after bird flu was found in a duck in the western province of British Columbia .
Officials also say Hong Kong , Taiwan , and the United States are imposing temporary bans on poultry from British Columbia .
The sick duck came from a commercial farm near Vancouver .
Canadian authorities said Monday the duck did not have the same bird flu strain that has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
But they are killing almost 60-thousand ducks on the farm as a precaution .
Also Monday , Romanian officials said British lab tests confirmed four dead chickens in a remote Danube River village had bird flu .
China 's agriculture ministry also said Monday that bird flu has been found in chickens , ducks , and geese last week in Inner Mongolia and Hubei province .
A U.S. official in Iraq says four American security guards have been killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a U.S. diplomatic convoy in the northern city of Mosul .
The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said two other guards were wounded in the attack on a three-vehicle diplomatic convoy , Tuesday .
Meanwhile , Britain has admitted that British troops in Basra used an armored vehicle to smash down a jail wall in a bid to free two detained undercover soldiers .
A Defense Ministry statement says the local British commander acted Monday because he feared the detained soldiers were being handed over to local Iraqi militia , which later proved to be correct .
Britain says the soldiers were freed from a nearby house where they had been taken before the military action on the prison .
Iraqi police had detained the British undercover soldiers after a clash in the southern city .
Iran 's supreme leader says he sees no benefit to negotiations with the United States on his country 's nuclear program .
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei added Iran will not negotiate its right to use nuclear technology with anyone .
But he says Iran is willing to discuss international supervision of its program if other countries accept Iran 's right to a nuclear program .
The United States has offered to join European talks with Iran if it first agrees to suspend uranium enrichment .
On Monday , Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani said Iran is seriously considering a package of international incentives aimed at convincing Iran to abandon enrichment .
He said Iran will respond as soon as possible to the offer from the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany .
The United States and its European allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran denies the allegation .
Two powerful explosions have ripped apart a vehicle belonging to a prominent Venezuela prosecutor .
Witnesses say the two blasts destroyed Deputy Attorney General Danilo Anderson 's truck as it drove through a neighborhood in western Caracas late Thursday .
Venezuelan officials say investigators are trying to determine if the charred body found inside the vehicle is Mr. Anderson .
Mr. Anderson was preparing a case against nearly 400 people allegedly involved in the April 2002 rebellion that briefly ousted populist president Hugo Chavez .
Authorities in Niger have detained a local journalist they say is linked to Tuareg rebels in the northern part of the country .
Moussa Kaka , a reporter for Radio France International , has been held since Thursday .
He is accused of what authorities call " conniving " with the rebel Niger Movement for Justice .
The rebel group has captured about 40 soldiers during raids in northern Niger this year .
Another 40 government troops have been killed in rebel attacks .
Tuareg rebels have been demanding a larger share of royalties from uranium mining in the northeast .
The government dismisses the rebels as bandits and drug traffickers .
Niger temporarily suspended local Radio France FM broadcasts in July , claiming their reports were biased toward the rebels .
Radio France confirmed Kaka 's detention on its Web site .
It did not comment on the charges against him .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh says there is an urgent need in India to counter a sense of alienation among its minority Muslims .
He told a meeting of state chief ministers in New Delhi that they should make sure that efforts to end Islamist militancy do not victimize the entire community .
He said no innocent person should be harassed in India 's struggle against terrorism .
Mr. Singh said any kind of insecurity among India 's 140 million Muslims could have extremely damaging effects on the country and fuel more terrorism .
His remarks came less than two months after train bombings in Mumbai were blamed on domestic Islamist militants with links across the border in Pakistan .
The bomb attacks in Mumbai prompted police raids on the city 's Muslim ghettos and the detention of hundreds .
Germany 's constitutional court has rejected a request by two lawmakers to prevent the deployment of German fighter jets in Afghanistan to support NATO forces there .
The lawmakers argued that sending the aircraft would entangle Germany in what the plaintiffs called " illegal operations " of the U.S. military .
The two are from German Chancellor Angela Merkel 's governing Christian Democratic party and its allied party , the Christian Social Union .
The two lawmakers went to court after Germany 's lower house of parliament voted overwhelmingly Friday ( 405 - 157 ) to send the Tornado aircraft .
The planes are to provide NATO forces with aerial images of the positions of Taleban fighters .
Opponents say the mission amounts to a combat role for the German planes .
Germany has 3,000 troops in Afghanistan in the largely peaceful north , but it has come under pressure to take a more active role in the war .
An independent police panel in Britain says its probe into the fatal shooting of a Brazilian man by British police after the London subway bombings should be completed by the end of the year .
Britain 's Independent Police Complaints Commission said Tuesday findings of the investigation into the death of 27-year-old Jean Charles de Menezes will not be published until all of the case proceedings are complete , including any punishments against the officers involved .
Monday , two senior Brazilian justice officials conferred in London with senior police officials about the probe .
British police shot and killed Mr. de Menezes July 22 on a London subway train - one day after four failed bombings on the city 's transit system .
Police said the Brazilian man 's suspicious behavior led them to believe he was a terrorist .
But recent news reports have cast doubt on the official version .
A new public opinion poll indicates Americans are becoming increasingly dissatisfied with the course of the war in Iraq .
In a poll conducted by CNN , USA Today , and the Gallup organization , one-third of those surveyed said the United States should withdraw all troops from Iraq .
That is the highest percentage calling for a full withdrawal since Gallup began asking the question in August 2003 .
The poll of 1004 adults , taken Friday through Sunday , also found that 57 percent of Americans feel the war has made them " less safe " from terrorism .
Fifty-four percent of those surveyed said the United States made a mistake in sending troops to Iraq , up from 46 percent in July .
President Bush 's overall approval rating was 45 percent , among the lowest ratings of his presidency .
South Korea 's foreign ministry says pirates , probably from Somalia , have hijacked an oil tanker .
The ministry says the tanker , the Samho Dream , was on its way from Iraq to the United States when it was seized Sunday off the coast of East Africa .
It says the ship has a crew of five South Koreans and 19 Filipinos .
Somali pirates have been especially active in recent weeks , taking advantage of good weather to hijack 16 ships since the beginning of March .
International naval forces have stopped numerous attacks and detained dozens of pirates .
But the forces can not fully cover the vast areas of the Indian Ocean and Gulf of Aden in which the pirates operate .
Pirates usually release the hijacked ships and their crews unharmed after receiving a ransom , sometimes worth millions of dollars .
Military officials in Pakistan say six soldiers and 40 militants were killed overnight in an attack on a paramilitary fort near the border with Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's military said most of the attackers came from the Afghan side of the border , and were joined by local Taliban fighters in the northwestern Mohmand tribal area , a center of Taliban and al-Qaida activity .
Security officials say gun battles raged for several hours before the attackers fled .
Officials estimate that about 600 militants took part in the attack .
Pakistani authorities say seven soldiers were wounded in the clashes , and that the paramilitary Frontier Corps inflicted heavy casualties on the militants .
Meanwhile , officials in South Waziristan say suspected militants abducted local government official Amir Latif today .
Police say gunmen stopped the official 's convoy , bundled him in their vehicle and drove off .
The British government has proposed legally binding targets for reducing carbon emissions , becoming the first country to outline a legal framework for confronting global warming .
If approved by parliament , the bill introduced Tuesday would bind the government to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 26 to 32 percent by 2020 , and 60 percent by 2050 .
Officials say failure to meet interim targets could land the government in court .
Prime Minister Tony Blair told reporters the proposed legislation is a revolutionary step that " sets an example for the rest of the world . "
European Union leaders last week agreed to cut carbon emissions from vehicles and factories by at least 20 percent over the next 13 years .
The EU plan calls for renewable energy sources , such as hydroelectric , solar and wind power , to replace heavily polluting fossil fuels .
A noted biologist , who had been studying little green frogs in a swamp , was stumped .
The frog population , despite efforts at predator control , was declining at an alarming rate .
A chemist at a nearby college came up with a solution :
The frogs , due to a chemical change in the swamp water , simply could n't stay coupled long enough to reproduce successfully .
The chemist then brewed up a new adhesive to assist the frogs ' togetherness , which included one part sodium .
It seems the little green frogs needed some monosodium glue to mate .
Health officials in Laos say a woman who fell ill near the Lao capital last month with symptoms of bird flu has died .
Laboratory tests had shown the 42-year-old woman had the H5 flu virus .
Hours before the woman 's death in a Vientiane hospital Sunday , authorities said it would take several more days to determine whether she carried the dangerous H5N1 strain .
The woman lived near a village where bird flu has infected poultry .
Last month , health officials confirmed the country 's first known human case of the disease in a 15-year-old girl who also lived near Vientiane .
Bird flu first appeared in Laos in 2004 .
It is known to have killed 167 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
The central African nation of Chad has asked the African Union to condemn Sudan for its alleged support of Chadian rebels .
Chad 's president , Idriss Deby , made the appeal Tuesday during a meeting with Nigerian President and AU chairman Olesgun Obasanjo at his residence outside Lagos .
Chad says Sudan harbors and supports the anti-Deby rebels who attacked the eastern Chadian town of Adre earlier this month .
Sudan has denied the accusations .
Earlier , President Deby accused Sudan of planning another attack , saying the Sudanese military has deployed 50 armored vehicles to the town of Geneina near the Chad-Sudan border .
He said Sudan 's actions could destabilize other states in the region , including the Central African Republic .
The African Union has sent delegations to both countries ' capitals in an effort to defuse the rising tensions .
The United Nations has hailed a decision by Pakistan to postpone the purchase of fighter jets from Washington in order to provide more relief to earthquake victims as the Himalayan winter approaches .
U.N. Emergency Coordinator Jan Vandemoortele says such moves are helpful as U.N. officials work hard to secure more funding for humanitarian aid for victims of the quake .
Officials say hundreds of thousands risk death or illness without tents , food and other supplies .
Friday , British Cabinet minister Hilary Benn said the world 's response to the large-scale disaster was not enough .
Earlier , Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf criticized the level of international aid , saying more was given to victims of the tsunami in Asia and Hurricane Katrina in the United States .
More than 73,000 Pakistanis died and more than three million people have been left homeless by the October 8 earthquake .
The U.S. military says nearly two dozen militants were killed during a rare frontal attack on a U.S. base in southern Afghanistan .
A statement from the U.S. led coalition says a group of 75 Taleban militants tried to overrun the base in southern Uruzgan province earlier Tuesday .
The statement says Afghan and U.S. forces backed by air support repelled the attack , killing more than 20 militants .
Two Afghan girls and two Afghan soldiers were wounded .
Violence has surged in Afghanistan over the past year and half as suspected Taleban militants have stepped up suicide attacks and roadside bombings .
More than 50,000 NATO and U.S. forces are battling the renewed insurgency in their strongholds in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
A MAN had two daughters , the one married to a gardener , and the other to a tile-maker .
After a time he went to the daughter who had married the gardener , and inquired how she was and how all things went with her .
She said , " All things are prospering with me , and I have only one wish , that there may be a heavy fall of rain , in order that the plants may be well watered . "
Not long after , he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker , and likewise inquired of her how she fared ; she replied , " I want for nothing , and have only one wish , that the dry weather may continue , and the sun shine hot and bright , so that the bricks might be dried . "
He said to her , " If your sister wishes for rain , and you for dry weather , with which of the two am I to join my wishes ? '
Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani says he is willing to hold talks with insurgents and members of the ousted government , but al-Qaida in Iraq rejected any possibility of dialogue .
Speaking at a reconciliation conference in Cairo , Mr. Talabani said he would meet with any Iraqi citizen , even those he called " criminals . "
He also called on insurgents to disarm and join the political process .
But al-Qaida in Iraq claimed in an Internet statement that it would continue launching attacks .
In new violence Monday , at least four Iraqis were killed and 10 others wounded in a car bomb explosion in Kanan , a town north of Baghdad .
Police say the bomb was apparently aimed at a passing U.S. military convoy .
Meanwhile , a White House spokesman Trent Duffy says it is " highly unlikely " Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was killed in a raid Saturday , as some reports have said .
Police in Iran say a fire at a mosque in central Tehran has killed at least 59 people and injured more than 200 others .
Iranian state media said a faulty electrical heater sparked the blaze as crowds gathered in the Arg Mosque for a major Shi'ite religious festival , Ashura .
Eyewitnesses said panicked crowds rushed for the exits and some people jumped through windows to escape the flames .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has resigned as head of his Democratic Progressive Party , after the party and its allies suffered a major defeat in Saturday 's parliamentary election .
An opposition alliance , led by the Nationalists , won 114 seats in the 225-member chamber .
Mr. Chen 's coalition won 101 seats .
Mr. Chen told reporters
Tuesday that he takes full blame for the coalition 's defeat and will leave his party leadership post as a result .
Observers say the election deals a setback to President Chen 's drive to move Taiwan toward an identity apart from mainland China .
China considers Taiwan a renegade province and has threatened to seize the island by force if it makes moves toward independence .
A trial opened Thursday for at least 25 Shi'ite activists who are accused of plotting to overthrow the government .
The suspects face charges that include " forming an illegal organization " and " resorting to terrorism . "
They have pleaded not guilty to the charges and complained of alleged torture while in detention .
Security was heightened in the courtroom .
The trial could raise tensions between Bahrain 's Sunni-dominant government and members of its Shi'ite majority who have long complained about a lack of government representation .
The country 's main Shi'ite Muslim political bloc did make inroads in Saturday 's parliamentary elections , with all 18 of its candidates winning seats in the 40-member parliament .
The wins reflect a one-seat gain for the al-Wefaq bloc , compared to results from the last poll in 2006 .
The United States and China have opened annual talks on economic issues , with Washington seeking changes to China 's economy and financial markets .
Treasury Secretary John Snow and Federal Reserve ( central bank ) chairman Alan Greenspan lead the U.S. side at the meeting outside Beijing in Xianghe .
The talks are part of an effort to close the record trade gap between the countries .
China sold the United States $ 162 billion more goods than it bought last year and a larger gap is forecast for this year .
A U.S. treasury official said that Washington is focusing on more than currency issues in its attempts to find a solution to the trade imbalance .
U.S. businesses accuse China of manipulating its currency to give Chinese exports an unfair price advantage .
Mexican police say they have found 12 mutilated corpses in hidden graves on the outskirts of Cancun , the latest sign drug-related violence is spreading to the popular tourist destination .
Authorities announced the discovery Friday , adding that some of the bodies had the letter " Z " carved on their chests , a likely reference to the powerful Zetas drug smuggling gang .
The grim find is at least the second such discovery this month .
In May , Mexican police arrested Cancun 's mayor Gregorio Sanchez on suspicion of offering information and protection to the Zetas , as well as the Beltran Leyva cartel .
Sanchez 's Democratic Revolutionary Party denounced the charges .
A MAN to Whom Time Was Money , and who was bolting his breakfast in order to catch a train , had leaned his newspaper against the sugar-bowl and was reading as he ate .
In his haste and abstraction he stuck a pickle-fork into his right eye , and on removing the fork the eye came with it .
In buying spectacles the needless outlay for the right lens soon reduced him to poverty , and the Man to Whom Time Was Money had to sustain life by fishing from the end of a wharf .
Bolivian President Carlos Mesa , who submitted his resignation Monday , has urged Congress to hold new elections as soon as possible to end weeks violent protests .
Mr. Mesa 's late night televised address came after tens of thousands of peasants and miners marched in La Paz Tuesday , demanding nationalization of the country 's oil and gas industry .
The president offered to resign late Monday in the wake of the growing unrest , saying he could no longer lead the poor Andean nation .
Bolivia 's Congress is expected to consider his offer to resign this week .
His offer to step down earlier this year was rejected by lawmakers .
Taiwan has asked internet search company Google to stop calling it a province of China on its maps .
A Taiwan foreign ministry spokesman said Tuesday that the ministry has asked Google to correct the description .
Taiwan says it is a sovereign , independent state officially called the Republic of China .
China views Taiwan as a breakaway province and has threatened to attack the island if it pushes for formal statehood .
The two split in a civil war that ended in 1949 .
Insurgents have killed at least 11 people in attacks across Iraq .
In the deadliest attack , a roadside bomb killed a police officer and his four children in Tikrit .
Another roadside bomb killed at least one person in Kirkuk .
In Baghdad , a suicide car bomber killed four people , included two police officers .
Other attacks across the city wounded five U.S. soldiers .
And in Baquba , a police officer was killed in a drive-by shooting .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says soldiers killed two suspected members of al-Qaida in Iraq and detained 22 others during raids in Mosul and Ramadi .
The violence comes after Iraq 's Independent Electoral Commission said it found no serious election fraud in Iraq 's recent constitutional referendum .
Official results have not yet been announced .
Thai authorities say suspected Muslim militants have carried out at least 40 bomb and arson attacks in Thailand 's Muslim-dominated southern provinces .
Police say at least two people were injured in the attacks , which took place late Tuesday in the provinces of Pattani , Yala and Narathiwat .
They say the most serious attack was a fire set at a rubber factory .
The French news agency quotes the region 's top military official as saying the situation is under control and that six suspects have been arrested .
More than 1,400 people have been killed during two years of unrest in Thailand 's Muslim-majority provinces .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and British Prime Minister Tony Blair are holding talks today expected to be dominated by the fight against terrorism , the Middle East , Afghanistan and Kashmir .
Before the London meeting , General Musharraf told the BBC that the global war on terrorism has made the world less safe and is not addressing the social grievances that help recruit terrorists .
In a separate interview , the Times of London quotes General Musharraf as saying he would welcome British involvement in negotiations with India over Kashmir .
Before going to London , the Pakistani leader met with President Bush to review the war on terror , the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the hunt for Osama bin Laden .
U.S. President Barack Obama is wishing Christians in the United States and around the world a happy Easter .
In his weekly Saturday radio and Internet address , Mr. Obama also reached out to Jewish communities , whose celebration of Passover ends next week , and to people of other faiths as well as non-believers .
Mr. Obama used his address to call attention to his administration 's top priorities - creating jobs , improving access to health care and improving education in the U.S.
He said he was heartened at statistics showing an increase in new jobs created lasted month .
But his address mostly focused on a call for unity , saying different faith communities share the " spirit of humanity . "
Israel 's government is urging Israelis visiting Egypt 's Sinai peninsula to leave immediately because of what it calls an imminent terrorist attack .
Israel 's anti-terrorism office says it has " concrete " evidence of a plot to kidnap Israelis in the Sinai and smuggle them to the Gaza Strip .
Israeli officials called on family members to contact Israelis vacationing on the peninsula and ask them to return to Israel right away .
Some 20,000 Israelis traveled to the Sinai during the recent Jewish Passover holiday , despite prior Israeli warnings of possible terrorist attacks there .
Many vacationers have since returned to Israel .
The Sinai has been the scene of terrorist attacks on Israelis and Western tourists .
In 2004 , suicide bombers attacked a Sinai hotel and several campsites popular with Israelis , killing 34 people and wounding more than 120 .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say coalition aircraft bombed a Taleban stronghold in southern Kandahar province overnight , killing 80 suspected Taleban militants and 16 civilians .
Kandahar Governor Asadullah Khalid said Monday that besides the militants , 16 civilians were killed and at least another 15 were wounded .
The coalition says it is investigating the reports of civilian casualties .
A coalition spokeswoman , Lieutenant Tamara Lawrence , said the village of Azizi in the Panjwayi district area is a known Taleban stronghold about 50 kilometers west of Kandahar 's provincial capital .
Meanwhile , Afghan police on Monday found the body of a missing former provincial governor .
Armed men snatched Paktika province 's former governor , Mohammad Ali Jalali , along with the former police chief of the same province on Sunday while they were attending a prayer service in neighboring Ghazni province .
The police chief was released unharmed .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez has begun a three-day visit to Syria by announcing that the two countries are united against what he called " U.S. imperialism . "
Mr. Chavez and Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad met Wednesday in Damascus to discuss bilateral cooperation .
Mr. Al-Assad stressed that the two countries have very close positions on international issues .
Support for Mr. Chavez in the Arab world has soared since Venezuela withdrew its ambassador to Israel at the start of the Israeli military offensive in Lebanon .
The Venezuelan president called Israel 's attacks against Hezbollah " genocide . "
In response , Israel recalled its own ambassador from Venezuela .
Mr. Chavez has accused Washington of plotting against him and his government , something U.S. officials deny .
Venezuela 's state-owned oil company says it is beginning to explore for oil in Cuban waters as part of a joint venture with the island 's state-owned Cubapetroleo .
Petroleos de Venezuela ( PDVSA ) said in a statement that the project would cover a 10,000-square-kilometer area and begin Wednesday .
The Venezuelan company says it expects to confirm the presence of light crude oil after conducting a seismic study .
Earlier this year , Venezuela offered discounted oil to Cuba , Bolivia , Nicaragua and Haiti in exchange for becoming the sole provider to those countries .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said his country 's oil will help with both economic and social development in the area .
The proposal called for Venezuela to offer oil at a 50 percent discount .
Venezuela sells about 98,000 barrels of crude oil daily to Cuba .
In return , Cuba provides Venezuela with medical personnel .
An Associated Press correspondent left Ethiopia Sunday after getting an expulsion order from the government .
Anthony Mitchell was told by Ethiopian officials on Saturday he had 24 hours to leave the country .
The news agency says attempts to appeal the order went unanswered .
In a statement , the Ethiopian government accused Mitchell of reporting information " far from the truth " and tarnishing the country 's image .
Associated Press managing editor Mike Silverman says the news agency will stand behind Mitchell , a British journalist he describes as aggressive and fair .
Ethiopia recently began a crackdown on the press and opposition groups , charging 129 people with treason and genocide .
Among those charged are five Voice of America journalists in Washington .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has urged the United States and other nations with troops in Iraq to withdraw from the country within one year .
In a speech Friday at Harvard University in Cambridge , in the northeastern state of Massachusetts , Villepin said the United States remains the leading power in the world .
But he noted the war in Iraq marked a turning point , undermining not only America 's image , but also the image of the West as a whole .
Villepin continued that it is time for the United States and Europe to regain the respect and admiration of other peoples .
Villepin said he believes a timetable for the withdrawal of all foreign troops is needed to allow Iraqis to feel their future is in their own hands and to put them back on the path of national sovereignty .
Hurricane Ike roared through vital parts of the U.S. oil industry , boosted gasoline prices , and probably cost insurance companies billions of dollars Saturday .
Oil company officials say they are sending workers to assess damage at off-shore oil rigs and coastal refineries .
U.S. government officials say they are prepared to release stocks from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help make up for lost production .
Concerns about possible supply shortages have pushed gasoline prices up in some areas of the U.S. To boost gasoline supplies , the government has made it easier for companies to import fuel by suspending rules requiring certain formulations of gasoline to meet environmental standards .
Meantime , three groups of insurance industry experts have widely differing estimates of the storm 's cost to insurance companies -- ranging from six billion dollars to 18 billion dollars .
Tropical Storm Beta appears to have bypassed the Colombian island of San Andres , but forecasters say it could strengthen into a hurricane as it approaches the island of Providencia .
The National Weather Service says a hurricane warning is in effect for the Colombian island of Providencia , off the coast of Nicaragua .
Beta is currently some 80 kilometers northeast of San Andres , moving north at about seven kilometers per hour .
The storm is expected to turn northwest and strengthen , possibly to hurricane strength , during the next 24 hours .
Forecasters say the center of the storm could reach mainland Nicaragua by Sunday .
Beta is expected to dump as much as 38 centimeters of rain across Honduras , Nicaragua , San Andres and Providencia .
The Venezuelan government says it is investigating allegations that some members of the navy passed state secrets to the U.S. Defense Department .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel says some low-level officials were caught passing information to the Pentagon .
He said some suspects have been detained and that others have left the country .
The suspects include active and retired members of Venezuela 's navy .
Venezuelan authorities also allege U.S. Embassy involvement in the affair .
The attorney for one suspect told reporters a U.S. naval attache has been mentioned as a possible link between the Venezuelan officers and United States .
U.S. officials say they have not been contacted by the Venezuelan government about the matter .
The U.S. ambassador in Caracas , William Brownfield , told local media that when the Venezuelan government presents the U.S. with notification , officials will respond .
Flash floods sweeping through parts of Kenya have killed at least 20 people and left thousands of others homeless .
The floods are the result of torrential rains that have eased Kenya 's long drought but are making life miserable for people who live near rivers and in flood-prone areas .
The Kenyan Red Cross says some 30,000 people are in need of relief aid after water washed away homes , killed livestock , and destroyed crops .
The hardest-hit areas appear to be in western Rift Valley province .
Kenyan newspapers report deaths and especially heavy flooding in the Turkana East area and in the southwestern villages of Rongai , Marigat , and Mogotio .
Relief agencies and Kenyan officials say the number of casualties may rise as the rains are expected to continue for days or weeks to come .
Afghan officials say Taliban militants killed 11 policemen late Sunday , while two NATO soldiers died in a separate incident in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar .
The local deputy police chief , Amanullah Khan , says Taliban militants opened fire on a group of sleeping policemen at a remote checkpoint in Kandahar 's Arghandab district .
He said preliminary reports indicate that one of the policemen had links with the Taliban .
Meanwhile , the British Defense Ministry confirmed that two Royal Air Force servicemen were killed when their vehicle hit an explosive device .
NATO 's International Security Assistance Force says two other British soldiers were wounded in the blast Sunday .
The ISAF did not disclose the exact location of the incident .
The Taliban ambush was the latest in a series of recent attacks on Afghan police in the south .
Eight police officers were killed Saturday in Kandahar and neighboring Helmand Provinces by the militant group .
Egypt says it has arrested more than 10 suspected terrorists who it claims were training to wage Jihad or holy war .
An interior ministry statement released Monday says the group , including nine French citizens , two Belgians and an American , were living in Egypt under the pretense of studying Arabic and Islam .
The statement says several Egyptians , Tunisians and Syrians are also under arrest .
The statement says the group had adopted extremist views and was working to recruit new members to wage terror in Iraq .
The government says the group has links to terror organizations abroad .
The ministry did not reveal the names of those under arrest .
The U.S. embassy in Cairo has refused to comment on the arrests .
U.S. and Brazilian media reports say police have arrested a key al-Qaida operative in the Brazilian city of Sao Paulo .
The arrest was reported Tuesday by the Associated Press ( AP ) and Brazil 's daily newspaper , Folha de S. Paulo .
The suspect was not identified by name , nor was his nationality given .
But the AP said a federal police spokeswoman confirmed the newspaper 's report that the suspect is a top player in al-Qaida 's international communications .
She said the suspect is being held under laws that prohibit the promotion of racism in Brazil .
Rebels in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region say they have shot down an unmanned spy plane which , they say , the Sudanese government was using to track their positions .
A spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Army said its forces shot down the unmanned drone Thursday in the central mountainous Jabel Marra area .
A Sudanese army spokesman said an unmanned plane had made an emergency landing in the area , but was not able to say whether the aircraft was shot down .
Rebels say the aircraft appears to be Chinese-made .
Rights groups criticize China for selling weapons to Sudan 's government which , they say , are used against rebels in Darfur .
More than five years of fighting in Darfur among rebel groups , the government and government-allied militias have killed more than 200,000 people and displaced more than 2.5 million others .
Turkey 's military says 15 Kurdish rebels have been killed in Turkish attacks on suspected rebel targets in northern Iraq .
The military said Saturday the rebels - from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) - were killed Thursday in artillery fire aimed at stopping the group from attacking Turkish targets .
A military statement said Turkish warplanes followed up the attack with airstrikes in northern Iraq Friday , but it was unclear if there were casualties .
Turkey accuses PKK militants of using suspected strongholds in northern Iraq to launch attacks in Turkey .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast for nearly 25 years .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey , the United States and other nations have designated the PKK a terrorist group .
Witnesses say Israeli helicopters fired missiles into Gaza shortly after Palestinian militants killed five Israelis at a busy crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
The witnesses say two Israeli missiles hit the Deir al Balah refugee camp .
They say the target was a building belonging to a charity linked to a militant group .
An hour earlier , Hamas , al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and the Popular Resistance Committee carried out the attack at the Karni crossing .
Three Palestinians were killed in the bomb attack .
The upsurge in violence comes as newly-elected Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas again called for attacks on Israelis to stop .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who is expected to meet with Mr. Abbas within days , insists peace negotiations can not be revived unless Palestinians crack down on militants .
Iraqi National Guard troops have raided a Sunni mosque in Baghdad .
Reports say about 200 national guardsmen stormed the al-Hanifa mosque Friday , following weekly prayers , throwing stun grenades and firing shots in the air .
Casualties were reported during the fighting inside the mosque .
The purpose of the raid was not immediately clear , but worshippers say the Iraqi troops arrested the mosque 's imam .
Meanwhile , the top commander of U.S. Marines in Iraq says U.S. and Iraqi troops have " broken the back " of the insurgency there by taking control of Fallujah .
Lieutenant General John Sattler said the 11-day operation has pushed the insurgents out of their safe haven and into less familiar areas .
But he said Fallujah is not quite secure yet .
Vice President Dick Cheney 's chief of staff Lewis Libby is known to be a quiet but powerful force in the Bush administration .
The 55-year-old Mr. Libby helped build the case for the U.S. invasion of Iraq , arguing that Saddam Hussein 's regime had weapons of mass destruction .
No such weapons have been found .
Mr. Libby shies away from media attention , but is described by colleagues as being closely involved in everything the vice president does .
Widely known by his nickname " Scooter , " Mr. Libby is also a lawyer and a writer , who earned praise for a 1996 mystery novel he wrote .
Some 200 soldiers and civilians working for the military battled the thin Afghan mountain air , a bumpy track and the threat of attack to run five long laps around the airstrip at Firebase Ripley , a remote military camp in central Uruzgan province .
In the end , First Lieutenant Mike Baskin beat the competition , running the course in three hours , 12 minutes and 15 seconds .
Bursting into tears at the finish line , the Army lieutenant said he thought only of his fallen comrades as he crossed the finish line .
Soldiers at the base are operating in one of Afghanistan 's most hostile areas .
Their most recent casualties were suffered last month when two soldiers were killed by a bomb that ripped through a patrol .
Afghan officials say 10 Taliban militants have been arrested for an acid attack on schoolgirls and teachers in southern Afghanistan .
Officials say militants on motorbikes attacked the girls and teachers as they walked to school in the southern city of Kandahar earlier this month .
Several girls suffered facial burns and were hospitalized .
A Taliban spokesman earlier denied responsibility for the attack .
Under Taliban rule , girls were banned from school and were only allowed to leave the house accompanied by a male relative .
The Afghan government has accused Taliban militants of attacking dozens of schools and teachers .
President Bush has repeated his call for Congress to make his tax cuts permanent , saying they have improved the economy .
As many Americans prepare to file their annual tax payments before Monday 's deadline , President Bush said on U.S. radio Saturday that Americans will once again keep more of their earnings because of tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 .
He said his tax relief program has helped create new jobs that have brought the unemployment rate down to 4.7 percent .
Congress has been discussing whether to renew some of the tax cuts that are set to expire in the next few years .
Many Democrats argue that the tax cuts are irresponsible in light of the costs of the war in Iraq and other pressing issues .
The foreign minister of Chad has called on wealthy nations to help poor countries reduce poverty and advance social and economic progress .
In comments at the United Nations World Summit , llam-Mi Ahmad also appealed for fair trade laws and total debt relief for African nations .
He pledged ongoing cooperation with neighboring African countries that face the threat of terrorism .
He also made an impassioned plea for international assistance in resolving the conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Over the last two years , at least 200,000 Sudanese refugees from Darfur have fled across the border into Chad .
Mr. Ahmad said Chad has helped efforts to mediate the crisis and has taken on the refugees with great cost to its environment , food supply and the constant threat of ongoing violence among the various combatants .
Delegates to a U.N. conference on global warming are working hard in the meeting 's final hours to reach a deal on long-term efforts to cut carbon emissions .
The biggest stumbling block is the United States , which rejects the Kyoto Protocol on cutting " greenhouse , " or heat-trapping , emissions .
Delegates want to extend talks on the accord , which is set to expire in 2012 .
The Bush administration says the protocol would hurt the U.S. economy , and says it unfairly exempts developing nations such as China and India .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton rejected that charge in a surprise talk at the Montreal , Canada , summit Friday .
Mr. Clinton , who endorsed the Kyoto protocols while president , told delegates the accord would not hurt developed nations .
He added it was time to stop doubting the effect of these gases , saying " climate change is real . "
Politicians , foreign troops and aid workers are all working in Sri Lanka 's tsunami ravaged areas to get the rebuilding effort into full swing .
A few dozen of the roughly 600 U.S. military personnel in Sri Lanka , are here at a primary middle school outside Galle .
They are using bulldozers , dump trucks and sometimes sledge hammers to demolish school buildings left structurally unsound by the tsunami .
In other parts of the area , U.S. Navy Seabees ( engineers and construction workers ) are distributing fresh water to camps for people left homeless .
Politicians , including the prime minister and the former prime minister , are also doing the rounds on visits similar to campaign stops , suggesting the tsunami and its aftermath may be political fodder for some time to come .
A Chinese demographer has said the imbalance between births of girls and boys may one day make it impossible for millions of Chinese men to find a spouse .
On Saturday , China 's official news agency quoted Professor Mu Guangzhong , of the Beijing University population research institute , as saying by the year 2020 , 25 million men will fail to have wives if the current gender imbalance continues .
In China , official policy restricts couples in urban areas to one child , and families have shown a preference for sons .
There are 119 boys born for every 100 Chinese girls .
Chinese lawmakers decided in June not to outlaw the practice of performing abortions based on the gender of the fetus .
But Xinhua says the new report is likely to prompt the government to take more forceful measures to reverse the male dominant population trend .
French Togoland became Togo in 1960 .
Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA , installed as military ruler in 1967 , ruled Togo with a heavy hand for almost four decades .
Despite the facade of multiparty elections instituted in the early 1990s , the government was largely dominated by President EYADEMA , whose Rally of the Togolese People ( RPT ) party has maintained power almost continually since 1967 and maintains a majority of seats in today 's legislature .
Upon EYADEMA 's death in February 2005 , the military installed the president 's son , Faure GNASSINGBE , and then engineered his formal election two months later .
Democratic gains since then allowed Togo to hold its first relatively free and fair legislative elections in October 2007 .
After years of political unrest and condemnation from international organizations for human rights abuses , Togo is finally being re-welcomed into the international community .
officials are searching for survivors in a turbulent river from a ferry that capsized and killed at least 20 people .
Officials say more than 100 people were on the ferry when it overturned Saturday in a river in the eastern Indian state of West Bengal .
Officials say about 50 passengers have been rescued and sent to the hospital .
Dozens of others were missing .
Authorities say the boat 's maximum capacity was 60 people , but it was badly overloaded .
Officials say most of the passengers were Muslims returning to the town of Kakdwip after attending a religious festival .
Settled as early as 1000 B.C. , Samoa was " discovered " by European explorers in the 18th century .
International rivalries in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago .
The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year .
Rival clans in southern Somalia have clashed in a fight for control over a trading town , and witnesses report dozens of deaths and injuries .
Residents say more than 20 people were killed and 30 injured in the battle that began late Friday night in a town identified by Reuters news agency as Ceel Waaq near the Kenyan border .
The town is described as a center of commercial activity .
Warlords have ruled Somalia since dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991 .
U.S. officials have asked the Palestinian leadership to require parliamentary candidates to renounce violence if they want to run in upcoming elections .
The issue is expected to be discussed when President Bush meets Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas at the White House Thursday .
U.S. and Palestinian officials say the Bush administration is concerned that Palestinian militant groups , who have a history of attacks on Israelis , will do well in the January vote .
On Tuesday , White House spokesman Scott McClellan said there is more the Palestinian leadership can do to end violence and dismantle terrorist organizations .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , whose government recently withdrew settlements from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank , has said participation in the election by militant groups such as Hamas would be unacceptable .
Two Burmese ethnic rebel groups are supporting a call for the United Nations Security Council to take up an urgent initiative to bring political reforms to military-ruled Burma .
In separate press releases Sunday , the Karen National Union and the Shan Democratic Union backed a report by former Czech President Vaclav Havel and retired South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu calling for Security Council intervention .
Mr. Havel and Archbishop Tutu issued a report Tuesday comparing the situation in Burma to those in seven other countries in which the Security Council had intervened .
The 70-page report said conditions are far worse in Burma than they were in such countries as Sierra Leone , Afghanistan and Haiti before UN intervention .
Thousands of demonstrators staged a peaceful rally in Russia 's capital Saturday to protest recent reforms that reduced Soviet-era subsidies for rent and utilities .
Many elderly pensioners were among the 5,000 demonstrators criticizing the rising costs of living .
Protesters say people on fixed incomes can not afford to pay household expenses given recent rate hikes and subsidy reductions .
Demonstrators are urging the government to use some of the revenue from Russia 's booming oil industry to help maintain aging buildings and to assist people who can not afford rising housing and utility costs .
The Communist Party and other leftist groups sponsored the Moscow rally .
Demonstrations were also held elsewhere in Russia Saturday , including the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk .
Authorities in southern Afghanistan say suspected Taleban insurgents have shot and critically wounded a pro-government Islamic cleric .
They say Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Masah , a member of the influential Ulema Council of clerics , was ambushed and shot Sunday as he was leaving home near Kandahar city .
Elsewhere , Reuters news agency reports U.S. warplanes have again pounded suspected militant positions in eastern Kunar province .
U.S. forces are searching the rugged area for a Special Forces unit that has been missing since Tuesday , just before a helicopter going to its rescue was shot down , killing all 16 troops on board .
Afghan government officials say a similar U.S. air strike in Kunar late Friday caused casualties .
There are conflicting accounts whether civilians were killed .
Iran has given reporters a rare glimpse into a key nuclear plant that the United States and Europe want permanently closed .
Some 50 reporters accompanied President Mohammad Khatami Wednesday , on a tour of the Natanz uranium enrichment facility south of Tehran .
They were shown a vast , empty underground hall that Iranian officials said is designed to house thousands of enrichment centrifuges .
Outside , dozens of anti-aircraft weapons guarded the facility .
Officials said all enrichment activities have been suspended at the site , which the International Atomic Energy Agency regularly monitors .
The tour was to continue later in the day at a uranium conversion plant near Isfahan .
The United States and Europe want Iran to permanently stop enriching uranium - which in certain forms can be used to fuel nuclear weapons .
But Iran says it is only pursuing the technology to produce electricity .
Police say insurgents in Russia 's volatile southern republic of Dagestan have killed a prosecutor and then ambushed the regional government 's interior minister on his way to the scene of the first attack .
Russian news reports say the minister escaped , but two police officers accompanying him were mortally wounded .
Authorities say a bomb exploded as a car carrying prosecutor Bitar Bitarov to his office in the republic capital , Makhachkala , passed by .
The prosecutor later died at a local hospital .
Attackers later fired on a second vehicle carrying regional Interior Minister Adilgerei Magomedtagirov and several police officers as they approached the scene to investigate .
The two wounded officers died on the way to a hospital .
Dagestan borders Chechnya , where Islamic separatists have been fighting government forces for more than a decade .
South Korean Foreign Ministry officials say the Japanese foreign minister has misguided views on the history between the two countries .
The criticism from Seoul Monday came in response to Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso 's comments Saturday about visits to a controversial war shrine in Tokyo .
Mr. Aso said Japan did not have to worry about being isolated because of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visits to the shrine since the only countries complaining were South Korea and China .
Japan 's relations with its two neighbors have deteriorated because of Mr. Koizumi 's annual visits to the shrine most recently last month .
The shrine deifies war criminals among the war dead honored there .
South Korea and China have said the shrine glorifies Japan 's militarist past .
Turkey 's parliament has approved sending military forces to join a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon .
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had urged support for the mission following a cease-fire between Israel and the Lebanese group Hezbollah .
Lawmakers voted 340 to 192 to approve the deployment Tuesday .
Turkish officials say they will send nearly 1,000 military personnel to conduct naval patrols off Lebanon and to help train Lebanese troops .
Before the vote , thousands of people rallied outside the parliament building in Ankara to protest the mission .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan arrived in Ankara today for talks on the U.N. force .
Turkey is the second Muslim country , after Qater , to commit troops to the expanded force .
Within the next decade , some 77 million people in the United States will enter retirement age , and many of them are expected to offer their skills and experience to work as volunteers .
Better health , longer life-spans and a desire to give something back to society are among the reasons motivating many to volunteer .
Producer Zulima Palacio has this report narrated by Deborah Block on what is being called a " new army of volunteers " .
Cambodian soldiers are heading to Sudan to support a United Nations landmine clearing operation .
About 109 soldiers are leaving the capital , Phnom Penh , Saturday for the northeast African nation , joining 26 other Cambodians already there .
Prime Minister Hun Sen has hailed the mission as historic and a great honor .
It is Cambodia 's first time taking part in a U.N. peacekeeping mission .
The United Nations estimates up to 20,000 people are killed or maimed by landmines worldwide every year and that at least one-fifth of the victims are children .
Nearly three decades of civil war , which ended in the 1990s , left Cambodia as one of the worst mine-affected countries .
Israeli doctors say Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who remains in a coma since suffering a stroke two weeks ago , underwent a surgical procedure overnight to replace his breathing tube .
The Hadassah hospital in Jerusalem issued a statement Wednesday morning , saying the procedure was necessary because the respiratory pipe developed a technical problem .
The statement said Mr. Sharon 's condition continues to be critical but stable .
The 77-year-old prime minister has been on respirator since he was incapacitated by a brain hemorrhage on January 4 .
Militants in Saudi Arabia have attacked the U.S. Consulate in the port city of Jeddah with machine guns and explosives .
Authorities say at least four Saudi security guards and three of the attackers are dead .
A Saudi Interior Ministry statement said militants launched the late-morning attack with explosives aimed at the main gate of the heavily-fortified U.S. compound .
Two gunmen were reported in custody and officials say security forces had regained control of the compound by mid-afternoon .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The attack is the latest in a series of assaults targeting foreigners in the kingdom over the past 18 months .
The U.S. State Department has issued a series of travel warnings in the past year , urging all non-essential Americans to leave the country .
Reporters Without Borders is calling on Venezuela 's government to discuss what it calls false accusations made by Venezuelan officials in response to recent criticism by the organization .
The Paris-based group says Venezuela 's information ministry unfairly lashed out after it expressed concern about the recent detention of a Venezuelan journalist ( Gustavo Azocar ) on fraud and embezzlement charges .
The organization says the ministry responded by accusing Reporters Without Borders of being part of a psychological war campaign by the United States .
It says the ministry also said the group was paid by the U.S. government and secret services .
Reporters Without Borders denies both accusations and says it will continue to question governments on any issue it feels restricts press freedom .
Authorities in Yemen have detained an Australian woman for suspected ties to a militant group and have placed her two young children under house arrest .
A lawyer for Shyloh Giddens said Wednesday his client was arrested in mid-May along with at least one Bangladeshi woman who has since been deported .
Attorney Abdul Rahman Barman says Giddens , who converted to Islam , moved to Yemen in 2006 .
He says Yemeni authorities have not provided any specific reason for her arrest .
The French News Agency quotes Barman as saying people get arrested in Yemen based on " wrong U.S. intelligence information . "
He says many are accused of having links to al-Qaida .
Israeli forces have killed three Palestinians Thursday as they pressed on with a three-week offensive in the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian officials say Israeli air strikes on the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza killed two people today .
Another Palestinian was killed during fighting between Israel and militants in the camp .
At least 100 Palestinians have been killed since Israel 's Gaza offensive began in late June .
At United Nations headquarters in New York today , Secretary-General Kofi Annan called for an immediate ceasefire in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
He said the international community must address the Israeli-Palestinian issue boldly .
Israel began its offensive in Gaza after militants captured an Israeli soldier ( Corporal Gilad Shalit ) in a cross-border raid .
It says it will continue the operation until the soldier is released and Palestinian militants stop firing rockets at Israel from Gaza .
Every year since 1995 , the United States Botanic Garden in Washington , DC , has partnered with the Smithsonian Institution to stage a massive floral exhibit of orchids .
VOA 's George Dwyer reports it offers visitors a colorful splash of floral brilliance as spring approached in the nation 's capital .
Jim Bertel narrates .
The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare capitalism , featuring a combination of free market activity and government intervention .
The government controls key areas , such as the vital petroleum sector , through large-scale state-majority-owned enterprises .
The country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum , hydropower , fish , forests , and minerals - and is highly dependent on the petroleum sector , which accounts for nearly half of exports and over 30 % of state revenue .
Norway is the world 's second-largest gas exporter ; its position as an oil exporter has slipped to ninth-largest as production has begun to decline .
Norway opted to stay out of the EU during a referendum in November 1994 ; nonetheless , as a member of the European Economic Area , it contributes sizably to the EU budget .
In anticipation of eventual declines in oil and gas production , Norway saves state revenue from the petroleum sector in the world 's second largest sovereign wealth fund , valued at over $ 500 billion in 2010 .
After solid GDP growth in 2004 - 07 , the economy slowed in 2008 , and contracted in 2009 , before returning to positive growth in 2010 .
Italy has a diversified industrial economy , which is divided into a developed industrial north , dominated by private companies , and a less-developed , welfare-dependent , agricultural south , with high unemployment .
The Italian economy is driven in large part by the manufacture of high-quality consumer goods produced by small and medium-sized enterprises , many of them family owned .
Italy also has a sizable underground economy , which by some estimates accounts for as much as 15 % of GDP .
These activities are most common within the agriculture , construction , and service sectors .
Italy has moved slowly on implementing needed structural reforms , such as reducing graft , overhauling costly entitlement programs , and increasing employment opportunities for young workers , particularly women .
The international financial crisis worsened conditions in Italy 's labor market , with unemployment rising from 6.2 % in 2007 to 8.4 % in 2010 , but in the longer-term Italy 's low fertility rate and quota-driven immigration policies will increasingly strain its economy .
A rise in exports and investment driven by the global economic recovery nevertheless helped the economy grow by about 1 % in 2010 following a 5 % contraction in 2009 .
The Italian government has struggled to limit government spending , but Italy 's exceedingly high public debt remains above 115 % of GDP , and its fiscal deficit - just 1.5 % of GDP in 2007 - exceeded 5 % in 2009 and 4 % in 2010 , as the costs of servicing the country 's debt rose .
Police in Bangladesh say unidentified gunmen have killed a journalist working for an English-language daily .
Police say the attack on Shahid Anwar , an assistant editor of the Daily Asian Express , occurred late Sunday in the capital , Dhaka .
Police say personal rivalry might have been the motive behind his killing .
Mr. Anwar is the second journalist killed in Bangladesh in recent weeks .
Last month , an editor of the Daily Durjoy Bangla newspaper in the northern Bogra district was killed under similar circumstances .
The international media watchdog , Reporters Without Borders , has ranked Bangladesh one of the most dangerous countries for journalists .
Afghan officials say they fear more than 64 people may have been killed by a massive avalanche along a key northern road .
Interior Minister Hanif Atmar said Tuesday that rescuers have already recovered 24 bodies from the Salang Pass , but they fear that more than 40 others still trapped have already died .
Hundreds of people have been rescued , but the 3,400-meter-high mountain pass , as well as a nearby tunnel , remain blocked .
Local officials said days of heavy snow led to avalanches that buried part of the mountain pass that connects Kabul to the northern city Mazar-i-Sharif .
President Hamid Karzai has released a statement expressing condolences for the victims and ordered Afghan public works officials to assist the rescue effort .
V-E Day is short for Victory in Europe Day , when the Allies accepted Germany 's surrender , ending World War II in Europe .
The White House hosted an online discussion Wednesday , fielding questions about President Bush 's upcoming trip through Europe and Russia , in honor of the historic moment .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried and Special Assistant to the President Thomas Graham answered questions Wednesday on the White House interactive website about President Bush 's VE day visits to the Netherlands , Russia and Georgia .
Questions were taken from around the world .
The discussion covered a range of topics , but mostly focused on issues within each country the president will visit .
A number of e-mails asked about Russia , its democratization process , and its role in European Union politics .
From May 6 to 10 , President Bush will visit Latvia , the Netherlands , Russia , and Georgia .
President Bush will meet with his Colombian counterpart , Alvaro Uribe , after Mr. Bush leaves the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation , APEC , summit later this month .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Friday the president will briefly meet with President Uribe in the Colombian resort town of Cartagena on November 22 .
Mr. Bush will be flying back from the two-day meeting of APEC leaders that begins November 21 in Santiago , Chile .
It will be his first trip abroad since winning re-election last week .
Mr. Bush and Mr. Uribe last met at the White House in March , and agreed to begin negotiations on a free trade agreement .
After leaving Colombia , the president will head to his ranch in Texas for the Thanksgiving holiday .
A suicide attack in southwestern Afghanistan Thursday killed six police officers and an Indian construction engineer , and wounded a dozen others .
Among those wounded were 11 Afghan police and another Indian .
The attack targeted a convoy carrying a group of Indian engineers in Nimroz province .
Afghan police did not say who was behind the attack , but Taliban rebels have often been blamed for such attacks .
A resurgent Taliban movement and other Afghan rebel forces have stepped up their attacks against Afghan , U.S. and NATO forces over the past year .
On Wednesday , U.S. military officials in Afghanistan said a soldier and his Afghan interpreter were killed in a roadside bombing in the eastern province of Khost .
And Afghanistan 's Defense Ministry said Wednesday at least four militants were killed in separate incidents when bombs they were planting exploded prematurely .
Syria 's foreign minister , Farouk al-Shara , says his government will exchange ambassadors with Baghdad when a new Iraqi government is formed .
This is the first time that Damascus has set a time frame for restoring ties .
Al-Shara says Syria welcomes a close relationship with Iraq and is committed to Iraq 's territorial integrity and to an end to the U.S. occupation .
Damascus broke off relations with Baghdad more than 20 years ago .
Relations between the two countries deteriorated after Syria sided with Iran in the Iran-Iraq war .
Syria also joined the U.S.-led coalition against Iraq in the 1991 Gulf War .
Iraq is encouraging Arab countries to send ambassadors to Baghdad .
Police in the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , have used batons to disperse student protesters who are demanding that their jailed leaders be released .
Witnesses say students retaliated by throwing bricks at police .
At least six demonstrators were injured during Monday 's skirmishes .
The student leaders were jailed for staging demonstrations against King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power , and for demanding the restoration of democracy .
The king says he needed to seize full political power to curb corruption and quell a Maoist insurgency that has claimed more than 11,000 lives .
The rebels , who claim to be inspired by Chinese revolutionary Mao Zedong , have been fighting since 1996 to replace the constitutional monarchy in the world 's only Hindu kingdom with a communist state .
Officials in Washington and New York say they have uncovered efforts by a Chinese company to sell Iran banned materials that could be used in Tehran 's missile and nuclear programs .
Tuesday , the Manhattan ( New York City ) prosecutor unsealed a multi-count indictment against China-based LIMMT Economic and Trade company and Li Fang Wei , one of the firm 's managers .
Prosecutors allege that the Chinese company used shell ( fake ) companies and aliases to circumvent laws that prevent U.S. banks from processing transactions for certain Iranian weapons companies .
At about the same time Tuesday , the U.S. Treasury imposed sanctions on six Iranian companies and one Chinese person in connection with the same case .
Britain has announced plans for a database of extremists who would face automatic questioning and could be barred from entering the country .
Home Secretary Charles Clark called the plan a response to the London suicide bombings that left at least 56 people dead this month .
He told parliament the database will list people known for unacceptable behavior such as preaching radical ideas , running extremist websites or writing articles that could foment terrorism .
Meanwhile , Prime Minister Tony Blair told lawmakers he is considering calling an international conference on ways to root out Islamic extremism .
He said it would address such issues as ways of dealing with Islamic schools that teach extremism .
Late Tuesday , British police removed a bomb-mangled 20-ton train car from a central London subway station nearly two weeks after the attacks .
American and Iraqi troops have launched a new counterinsurgency operation in western Iraq .
A U.S. military spokesman Saturday , said about 500 U.S. Marines and 100 Iraqi soldiers are carrying out the offensive in Iraq 's western Anbar province .
They say 22 suspected insurgents have been detained since the operation began southeast of Falluja Thursday .
It is the fourth major counterinsurgency operation in Anbar province in the past month .
Military officials say the province stretching from the Syrian border to just west of Baghdad is a conduit for foreign militants entering Iraq .
Meanwhile , Iraqi and U.S. officials say they are concerned over a series of attacks on foreign diplomats in recent days .
Several high-level Arab officials have been targeted and Egypt 's ambassador Ihab al-Sherif was assassinated earlier this week .
A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for the islands ended in 1814 , when they were ceded to the latter .
Independence came in 1976 .
Socialist rule was brought to a close with a new constitution and free elections in 1993 .
President France-Albert RENE , who had served since 1977 , was re-elected in 2001 , but stepped down in 2004 .
Vice President James MICHEL took over the presidency and in July 2006 was elected to a new five-year term .
Syria has dismissed as false and " completely political " a United Nations report linking some of its top intelligence officials to the February assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis issued a 54-page report Thursday , saying the assassination was planned over many months .
It implicates , among others , Syria 's military intelligence chief Asef Shawkat , who is the brother-in-law of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
In Beirut , anti-Syrian legislators hailed the findings and renewed their calls for Lebanese President Emile Lahoud - a close ally of Syria - to resign .
Mr. Mehlis ' report says President Lahoud received a telephone call from a suspect in Mr. Hariri 's assassination shortly before it occurred .
The president 's office has denied the accusation and says he has no intention of stepping down .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has extended the investigation until December 15 .
All 20 people aboard a Sudanese military plane were killed when it crashed on landing in southern Sudan on Saturday .
Officials with Sudan 's military say the plane blew a tire when it touched down , causing it to swerve off the runway and explode .
The accident happened Saturday morning in the town of Aweil , 800 kilometers southwest of Khartoum .
There were seven crew members and 13 passengers on the plane .
The U.S. Senate has confirmed the nomination of federal Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court .
The final vote was 58-to-42 , largely along party lines .
Tuesday 's vote came after the Republican-controlled Senate on Monday stopped an effort by opposition Democrats to extend the debate over Alito 's nomination .
Judge Alito is expected to be sworn in today and to attend the president 's State of the Union address with the other Supreme Court justices .
He replaces Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , who is retiring .
She was known as a " swing voter " on the Court , meaning she sometimes sided with the more conservative justices and sometimes with the more liberal ones .
Alito 's critics say he will move the Supreme Court in a more conservative direction , especially on issues like abortion and civil rights .
The Afghan government and the United Nations refugee agency have pledged to strengthen efforts to resettle returnees and people inside the country displaced by violence .
The pledge came after a high-profile visit to the country this week by the head of U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees , Antonio Guterres .
As VOA 's Ravi Khanna reports , the U.N. official wants the international community to do more to resettle Afghan refugees .
An internet message bearing the signature of a group that says it has links to al-Qaida is threatening a " bloody war " against European countries unless they pull their troops out of Iraq within one month .
The message , posted on an Islamist web site , says it speaks for the Abu-Hafs al-Masri Brigades , one of two groups whose signature appeared on statements claiming responsibility for the deadly July seventh bombings in London .
The statement , which mentioned Denmark , Italy , Britain and the Netherlands , said there will be no other warnings after the one-month ultimatum expires .
Experts have viewed past statements by the Abu-Hafs al-Masri Brigades with doubt , because the group has no proven track record of attacks and has claimed responsibility for events in which it was unlikely to have played any role .
Afghan soldiers stormed the Pul-i-Charki prison near Kabul Friday , ending a day-long crisis that began with an attempted escape .
At least four prisoners and four guards were killed , and several others wounded .
The head of the prison said four inmates linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network , one Iraqi and three Pakistanis , overpowered and killed a prison guard and seized his weapon .
They killed three other guards and , in the ensuing battle , two of the would-be escapees were killed .
The other two were eventually overpowered and killed when army troops stormed the prison about nightfall Friday .
The prison holds common criminals as well as terror suspects and is separate from US-run facilities that hold captured Taliban and al-Qaida fighters .
A U.S.-based media advocacy group says it is concerned that constitutional reforms proposed by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez could threaten press freedom in the country .
The Miami-based Inter American Press Association voiced concerns Tuesday after meetings with media executives and union leaders in Caracas , Venezuela .
The IAPA delegation says the proposed measures include detention without charges and controls on the news media if Mr. Chavez declares a state of emergency .
Venezuelans will vote on the reforms in a referendum December 2 .
The proposal also includes eliminating presidential term limits .
The country 's opposition parties , human rights groups and the Roman Catholic Church have condemned Mr. Chavez 's proposals .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe says he is willing to send officials to a neutral area to negotiate the swap of government-held rebels for rebel-held hostages .
During a speech Friday in Bogota , Mr. Uribe said international observers should go to the yet-to-be-announced meeting zone , an area he said should be free of weapons .
Wednesday , French President Nicolas Sarkozy appealed to the leftist FARC rebels to release some 45 hostages , including French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt and three Americans .
Talks between the Colombian government and the rebels had been stalled over proposals to swap the hostages for about 500 FARC prisoners being held in Colombian jails .
President Sarkozy 's appeal this week was apparently prompted by a recent videotape of the hostages which showed Betancourt looking extremely gaunt and despondent .
A former Colombian presidential candidate , Betancourt was kidnapped in February 2002 .
President Bush says he supports a criminal investigation into the destruction of CIA videotapes showing interrogations of terror suspects .
Mr. Bush made the comment Thursday in an interview with Reuters new agency .
Earlier today , White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Mr. Bush will cooperate with U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey in the investigation .
She said Mr. Bush has full confidence in both Mukasey and the head of the Central Intelligence Agency , Michael Hayden .
Mukasey announced the Justice Department investigation Wednesday , appointing federal prosecutor John Durham to lead the inquiry .
The CIA said last month that some videotapes of al-Qaida suspect interrogations , made in 2002 , had been destroyed in 2005 to protect the identities of the interrogators .
Critics of the move accuse the CIA of destroying evidence of torture .
President Bush has said the United States does not use torture as a method of interrogation .
Cambodia 's military court has laid more charges against two former Khmer Rouge leaders awaiting trial for genocide .
Military chief Ta Mok , and the head of the Tuol Sleng interrogation center , Duch , have been charged with genocide and crimes against humanity .
The new charges allow the two to be held for another three years without trial .
Both men were originally jailed in 1999 and charged with genocide , which meant they could be held for three years without trial .
In 2002 , they were charged with crimes against humanity to prevent their release .
The United Nations is trying to raise $ 56 million to fund a genocide tribunal .
None of the leaders of the Khmer Rouge has ever been brought to trial .
Iran has denied allegations by an exiled opposition group that said Tehran has a secret nuclear weapons facility .
A top Iranian diplomat for nuclear affairs told reporters Thursday the site in question has nothing to do with nuclear activities .
He said Iran has no undeclared nuclear facilities .
On Wednesday , the opposition National Council of Resistance of Iran alleged that Tehran has a secret uranium enrichment facility and has imported weapons-grade uranium and blueprints for a nuclear bomb .
But Tehran says its nuclear programs are strictly for electricity generation .
A recent International Atomic Energy Agency report said Iran has not diverted nuclear materials to a weapons program , although it did not rule out the possibility of secret atomic activities .
The music of jazz musician Miles Davis remains popular more than 16 years after his death .
His music is being sampled by hip-hop artists , actor Don Cheadle is set to portray him in a movie and a new CD has been released with remixed and updated versions of his music .
VOA Persian Service 's Benham Natagehi sat down with Davis ' son Erin to discuss his father 's music .
Ruth Reader narrates .
Three U.S. companies are being sued for selling material to the former Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein used in his chemical weapon attacks against Iraqi Kurds .
Five Iraqi expatriates filed a class action lawsuit this week in the U.S. state of Maryland , accusing the companies of violating the Geneva Conventions in connection with the attacks .
The Republic of Iraq is also named in the suit .
Saddam 's government used various chemical weapons in the anti-Kurd Anfal campaign in the late 1980s .
At a ceremony last month honoring victims in Halabja , one of the most infamous attacks , Iraq 's environment minister Narim Osman told VOA Kurdish Service foreign companies should be put on trial for their role in the killings .
The companies being sued are Alcolac , VWR International , and Thermo Fisher Scientific .
An advisory panel for a U.S. government health agency recommends greatly increasing the number of American children who receive the influenza immunization each year .
The panel suggests every child from age six months to 18 years receive a flu shot .
The new guideline would expand by some 30 million the number of young people who should be vaccinated .
Leta Hong Fincher has more .
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) is warning the global fight against bird flu remains underfunded .
FAO officials say some nations have made essential contributions , but tens of millions of dollars more than the nearly $ 20 million already given is urgently needed to prevent the spread of the virus .
Australia Monday says it will donate an additional 40,000 courses of the anti-viral medication Tamiflu to Indonesia .
Australia 's foreign minister Alexander Downer said Indonesian authorities had been somewhat unprepared for the spread of bird flu , but they are getting better organized .
Meanwhile , doctors in Jakarta today said initial tests suggest a 27-year-old Indonesian woman has died of bird flu .
Bird flu has killed more than 60 people in Southeast Asia since 2003 .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says he might resign if extremists block his program of peace negotiations with Israel after next week 's Palestinian parliamentary elections .
Speaking to reporters in the West Bank town of Ramallah Wednesday , Mr. Abbas also defended the inclusion in the election of the militant faction Hamas , which refuses to disarm and opposes peace talks with Israel .
He expressed hope Hamas would moderate its views .
Mr. Abbas said he remains committed to peace talks , which he described as a " political program , " and that he would step down if unable to carry out the program .
Hamas is expected to do well in the election .
Israel says Palestinian gunmen must be disarmed before resumption of peace talks .
Three more concerts have been planned for the Live 8 charity event - in Japan , Canada and South Africa .
Rock star Bob Geldof , who is organizing the events , says the concerts in Tokyo and Toronto were arranged to put pressure on the Japanese and Canadian governments to increase aid to Africa .
He said now that Europe has agreed to double its aid to Africa , the Americans , Japanese and Canadians have a chance to do so as well .
For the concert in Johannesburg , Geldof said former president Nelson Mandela will open the event , as long as he is healthy enough .
Concerts also are planned in London , Paris , Rome , Berlin and Philadelphia - all on July 2 .
The goal is to persuade world leaders to increase assistance to Africa .
Exit polling shows the economy to be the most pressing concern on U.S. voters ' minds .
Some 60 percent of voters Tuesday named the troubled economy as the most important issue facing the nation .
That finding was mirrored in two separate surveys of voters who had cast their ballots , conducted by CNN and the Associated Press .
No other issue was named the most important by more than one in 10 Americans .
In CNN 's polling , 10 percent named Iraq as the top issue , while terrorism and health care were the most important for nine percent .
Exit polling on voters ' preferences for president will not be released until voting stations begin to close .
A North Korean official says the country has built nuclear weapons to cope with what it calls the " U.S. nuclear threat " and says the nation is prepared to counter any U.S. pre-emptive strike .
The state-run Korean Central News Service Tuesday quotes an unnamed North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying the United States should seek cooperation with North Korea rather than pressing it to abandon its nuclear program .
The spokesman made the comments in response to the U.S. National Security Strategy released last week , which says the United States will act pre-emptively to prevent hostile acts .
Six-nation talks over North Korea 's nuclear program have been stalled since November .
North Korea is demanding that U.S. economic sanctions against Pyongyang be lifted .
Washington has rejected the demand , saying the sanctions are not related to the talks .
Crude oil and gasoline prices eased Friday after Rita was downgraded to a category 4 Hurricane .
Prices also declined when the storm 's predicted path shifted slightly away from the center of the U.S. oil refining industry to a less populated part of the Gulf Coast .
But investors remain on watch because hurricanes are unpredictable , and the " weaker " storm is still just as strong as Hurricane Katrina , which devastated nearby New Orleans , killed more than 1,000 people , and damaged key parts of the U.S. energy industry .
In the wake of Hurricane Katrina , world oil prices and gasoline prices spiked to all-time highs .
Consumers and analysts say they are worried that serious damage from Hurricane Rita could drive prices to new record highs , damaging economic growth .
Thousands of fans waiting in line to enter a concert in South Korea have caused a stampede that killed 11 people and injured at least 60 .
The victims were trampled Monday when a near-capacity crowd surged toward a gate at a stadium in the city of Sangju , 270 kilometers south of Seoul .
Among the dead were several young boys and elderly women .
Officials later canceled the concert of South Korean singers popular with older audiences .
It was part of festivities for Korea 's National Founding Day , marking the legendary date of the country 's founding some 4000 years ago .
Police in Istanbul , Turkey have arrested four men suspected of having links to al-Qaida .
Police say they made the arrests in a low income area of the city and found small arms and documents on bomb-making in the men 's homes .
Police say the men may have been planning bomb attacks .
Security sources say the men were first spotted chanting slogans and hanging banners in support of al-Qaida in Iraq chief Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , shortly after U.S. forces killed him in June .
Somali gunmen who hijacked a ship carrying food aid for tsunami victims have let it dock near the capital , Mogadishu , two months after the vessel 's capture .
A U.N. World Food Program spokeswoman confirmed Monday that the U.N.-chartered ship had arrived at El-Maan .
The WFP had negotiated with El-Maan port authorities to ensure a free passage of the food aid to Somalia 's transitional government for distribution .
However some reports cast doubt over whether the gunmen , who are still aboard the ship , will allow the cargo to be handed over to Somali officials .
The ship and its 10-member crew were hijacked as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia in June .
The WFP had hired the Kenyan vessel to carry 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
Security officials in Iraq say at least three Iraqi policemen have been killed and seven others wounded in a roadside bomb attack in the northern city of Kirkuk .
Authorities say the attack occurred Saturday as police took part in a funeral procession for a comrade killed by insurgents on Friday .
Insurgents have killed hundreds of policemen in a bloody campaign to topple Iraq 's U.S.-backed government .
Saturday 's attack came on the second anniversary of the beginning of the war in Iraq .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told Pentagon workers Friday that Iraq has made remarkable changes since U.S.-led forces invaded the country to topple Saddam Hussein .
Some infromation for this report provided by AP , AFP and Reuters .
Kosovo police say an explosion during a protest by ethnic Serbs has wounded about a dozen people in an ethnically divided town .
The cause of the blast was not immediately clear .
Officials say Friday 's demonstration was called to protest the opening of a Kosovo government office in Mitrovica .
The town remains deeply spit and is fraught with tension between Serbs and ethnic Albanians , more than two years after Kosovo declared independence from Serbia .
The United States is a key supporter of Kosovo 's independence , and has maintained a peacekeeping force of more than 1,400 troops there since the country 's declaration of independence .
The U.S. detachment is part of a 10,000-strong NATO-EU force that along with some 2,000 police , judges and prosecutors are deployed in Kosovo to help the country develop democratic institutions .
Russian officials say jailed oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky has been sent to a prison colony in eastern Siberia to serve out the rest of his eight-year sentence for financial crimes .
The head of the local prison administration Alexander Pleshkov told the Interfax news agency Thursday Khodorkovsky had been sent to a colony in the Krasnokamensk district of Chita province , close to the Chinese border .
Khodorkovsky was convicted on May 31 on charges of embezzlement , fraud and tax evasion relating to his business activities in the 1990s .
Supporters of Khodorkovsky say the state 's legal action against him and the Yukos oil firm was a Kremlin-driven reprisal for the tycoon 's forays into politics in opposition to President Vladimir Putin .
Russian officials deny this and say he is a common criminal .
Two NATO soldiers have died in an explosion in southern Afghanistan .
NATO 's International Security Assistance Force released a statement Wednesday saying the soldiers were killed by an improvised explosive device .
Officials did not disclose the soldiers ' nationalities .
Separately , NATO says coalition forces captured a Taliban sub-commander late Tuesday while searching a compound in Nangarhar province , east of Kabul .
An ISAF statement says the unidentified sub-commander was involved in kidnappings , weapons purchases and spying on coalition forces .
ISAF also says allied forces captured several other suspected militants in Helmand province late Tuesday .
U.S. federal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into the levee failures that led to widespread flooding in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina .
The office of U.S. Attorney Jim Letten says it is examining possible corruption in the flood barriers ' design , construction and maintenance .
Mr. Letten said Wednesday that some public officials were found to have " undisclosed conflicts of interest , " and that his office is " extremely concerned about those . "
New Orleans FBI agent James Bernazzani said federal agents have received numerous tips about possible misconduct related to the levees .
Louisiana state and local officials are also investigating the levee failures .
At the peak of the flooding , some 80 percent of New Orleans was underwater .
It took engineers several weeks to dry out the city , most of which sits below sea level .
Philippine communist guerrillas say they will not observe the usual Christmas ceasefire with the government .
Spokesman Gregorio Rosal for two communist groups ( the New People 's Army and the Communist Party of the Philippines ) said Thursday there is no point in a truce , and accused government forces of murdering allied leftists .
The Philippine military had recommended a unilateral ceasefire for Christmas Day ( December 25 ) and New Year 's Day , pending approval by President Gloria Arroyo .
The government and communist rebels have been engaged in armed conflict for more than 40 years .
The United Nations tribunal in The Hague has given Serbian General Sreten Lukic 30 days to enter a plea to charges of war crimes in Kosovo .
General Lukic , who arrived in The Hague Monday , sought the extra time to permit a medical examination following vascular surgery last week .
The tribunal has indicted General Lukic and three other Serbian generals on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity against Kosovo Albanians in 1999 .
One of the three has surrendered voluntarily , the two others are in hiding .
Meanwhile , in Belgrade , Serbia 's extreme nationalist Radical Party has filed a motion of no-confidence in the government of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to protest the extradition of 11 suspects to the court since October .
The Serbian government says it has encouraged war crimes suspects to surrender to the tribunal .
Egypt 's Health Ministry says an 18-month-old boy has contracted the bird flu virus - the 55th such case since the first outbreak of the disease in the country in 2006 .
Egyptian media say the boy , from the central province of Minia , first showed symptoms on Friday after coming into contact with dead birds .
He was taken to a hospital on Saturday and is in stable condition .
The avian virus normally passes from bird to bird and occasionally to humans .
But experts fear a mutation of the virus could begin spreading from one human to another and start a pandemic that could kill millions .
The World Health Organization says the H5N1 strain of the virus has killed 248 people since it resurfaced in Asia in 2003 .
Ukrainian authorities say Saturday 's scheduled signing of a controversial natural gas deal with Russia has been postponed until Wednesday , to allow officials to complete work on documents .
Under the deal reached earlier this month after a three-day Russian suspension of deliveries , Ukraine agreed to buy gas from Russia at a rate of $ 95 per 1000 cubic meters , up from the previous rate of $ 50 .
But the agreement triggered a political crisis , and Ukraine 's parliament voted to dismiss the government of Prime Minister Yuriy Yekhanurov .
Lawmakers Thursday also endorsed the dismissal of Justice Minister Serhiy Holovaty and Fuel and Energy Minister Ivan Plachkov .
News reports from Kiev say Mr. Plachkov may travel to Moscow Sunday for talks on gas supplies .
Turkmen President Saparmurat Niyazov , whose country is also a leading supplier of natural gas to Ukraine , will also be in Moscow Sunday .
In Afghanistan , a suicide bomber dressed in a military uniform has blown himself up outside an army training center in Kabul killing 10 people , including himself , and wounding at least 28 others .
An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman , Mohammed Zaher Azimi , said the blast came as officers and soldiers were leaving the training center at the end of the day and were waiting for buses to take them home .
A purported Taleban spokesman , Abdul Latif Hakimi , claimed responsibility for the deadly attack .
He identified the bomber as Kabul resident Sardar Mohammad .
President Hamid Karzai condemned the attack in " the strongest terms " and ordered an immediate investigation .
Also Wednesday , three people were killed and at least four others wounded in a landmine blast in Kunar province bordering Pakistan .
Iran says it has allowed U.N. nuclear inspectors to visit a high-security military site to counter U.S. accusations it is secretly developing nuclear weapons .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi told reporters Sunday that International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) inspectors were recently given access to the Parchin military complex , 30 kilometers southeast of Tehran .
The inspectors arrived in Iran on October 28 for a weeklong visit .
The inspection followed repeated IAEA efforts to return to Parchin to again check for radioactivity in buildings and other areas within the sprawling military complex .
A previous inspection was conducted last January .
Meanwhile , Iranian officials said Tehran was in talks with Russia about joint production of nuclear fuel in Iran .
The officials said allowing foreign partners would help assure the international community of the peaceful nature of Iran 's nuclear program .
A VERY HUNGRY FOX , seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds in the hollow of an oak , crept into the hole and made a hearty meal .
When he finished , he was so full that he was not able to get out , and began to groan and lament his fate .
Another Fox passing by heard his cries , and coming up , inquired the cause of his complaining .
On learning what had happened , he said to him , " Ah , you will have to remain there , my friend , until you become such as you were when you crept in , and then you will easily get out . "
Residents of a Kurdish area in northeastern Iraq are alleging that Iran has fired artillery shells across the border into two villages in Iraq .
Residents say farmland was damaged in the alleged shelling in Penjwin , which is east of Sulaimaniya .
No injuries were reported .
Earlier this week , Kurdish leaders said two other villages in northeastern Iraq had been the target of Iranian shelling , prompting frightened residents to flee their homes .
In recent months , Iranian forces have clashed with Kurdish rebels in northwestern Iran .
The insurgents are believed to be linked to Turkey 's separatist Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK .
Hobart Boulevard Elementary School is located in a poor Los Angeles neighborhood , infested with gangs and drugs .
Yet in a fifth grade classroom , children of immigrants , many who speak English as a second language , are learning important life lessons thanks to one teacher and the works of William Shakespeare .
VOA 's Yi Suli introduces us to a group of young thespians who are known around the world as the " Hobart Shakespeareans . "
A Mexican court has reduced the prison sentences of two brothers who were convicted of heading a drug cartel that smuggled tons of methamphetamine into the United States .
Jose de Jesus Amezcua Thursday had a 53-year prison sentence reduced to 28 years .
His brother , Adan , had his sentence cut from 22 years to nine-and-a-half years .
No reason was given for the reduction in sentences .
The original sentences were handed down in September of last year .
Authorities say the brothers , dubbed the " methamphetamine kings , " led a drug ring that imported chemical ingredients from Europe , India and Pakistan , and manufactured the stimulant for export to the United States .
A court in the U.S. state of California has indicted Jose de Jesus Amezcua and another brother , Luis , on drug charges .
Mexican authorities have refused to extradite the brothers .
Army officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say several days of skirmishes with rebel militias have killed at least 23 fighters , mostly among the militias .
The fighting was in North Kivu province , near the DRC 's eastern border with Rwanda and Uganda .
Despite the presence of 17,000 U.N. peacekeeping soldiers , bands of foreign and domestic militia fighters still terrorize the country 's east .
The Rwandan Hutu militia , the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda or FLDR , has operated in eastern DRC since fleeing Rwanda in 1994 , when many of them took part in the slaughter of some 800,000 people .
The DRC is struggling to rebuild after a civil war from 1998 to 2002 , when approximately four million died , mostly from hunger and disease .
However , violence continues in the country 's east , despite a peace deal in 2003 .
An Iranian exile group says Iran has built an extensive underground tunnel network to hide a secret nuclear weapons program .
The National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) says 14 tunnels house nuclear equipment , research workshops , and command centers across Iran .
The group , which the United States has designated a terrorist organization , urged the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) to take action .
NCRI officials spoke to reporters in London about the tunnels Tuesday , one day before Britain , France and Germany hold new talks with Iran on its nuclear program .
European officials say the talks in Vienna will be " talks about the talks . "
European nations have been pressing Iran to abandon its nuclear-fuel program .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly trying to develop a nuclear bomb , charges Tehran denies .
Leftist former Mexico City Mayor Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has kicked off his campaign for next year 's presidential election .
Mr. Lopez Obrador opened his campaign Thursday in the northern Baja , California city of La Paz .
He pledged to spur the economy and fight poverty by closing the gap between the rich and poor .
The candidate also planned campaign stop in the northern border cities of Tijuana and Mexicali .
The popular 51-year-old leads public opinion polls ahead of the July , 2006 presidential race .
Much of his popularity is in the capital , where he resigned as mayor two weeks ago to pursue the presidency .
President Vicente Fox is prevented from running for office again by Mexico 's constitution , which limits the presidency to a single six-year term .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and his Venezuelan counterpart , Hugo Chavez , have signed a series of agreements in what they called a strategic alliance .
The two presidents met Monday in Caracas .
They signed accords on cooperation in the areas of oil , construction , science and the military .
The Associated Press quotes President Chavez as saying the meeting was a critical development for the countries ' integration .
During their meeting , the leaders were also to discuss the selling of Brazilian aircraft to Venezuela 's military .
China 's official news agency reports that rescuers in the southeast of the country have recovered 50 bodies from a police academy hit by a typhoon-triggered landslide .
Xinhua says some 7,000 soldiers are still searching for 36 people who remain missing .
Officials said heavy rains from Typhoon Longwang on Sunday caused flooding and landslides in the Fujian province capital city , washing away two training school barracks that housed police recruits .
In a separate development , Xinhua says authorities have evacuated about 13,000 people from their homes in central China along a tributary of the Yangtze River .
It says heavy rains in Hubei province have cut off several roads , and more rain is expected in the next two days .
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly sown with wheat .
For a long time the Farmer , brandishing an empty sling , chased them away by the terror he inspired ; but when the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air , they ceased to take any notice of it and would not move .
The Farmer , on seeing this , charged his sling with stones , and killed a great number .
The remaining birds at once forsook his fields , crying to each other , " It is time for us to be off to Liliput : for this man is no longer content to scare us , but begins to show us in earnest what he can do . "
If words suffice not , blows must follow .
Leaders from the African Union are gathering in Sirte , Libya , for a two-day summit to focus on fighting poverty , disease and war on the continent .
The leaders are expected to use the summit , which opens Monday , to pressure rich countries for more engagement in Africa .
This includes calls for debt cancellation as well as increased funding for AU peacekeeping missions .
U.S. and European leaders say they hope the African summit will also include a strongly worded statement about Zimbabwe 's recent clampdown on shantytowns - a move that has left millions homeless .
On Saturday , AU foreign ministers proposed a reform plan that would give the continent two permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council , along with three non-permanent seats .
The 15-member Security Council now has five permanent members -- a status that includes veto power ( for the United States , Britain , France , Russia and China ) .
Crude oil prices surged above $ 50 a barrel in New York on Tuesday , amid cold weather , a falling dollar , and uncertainty about oil supplies .
The Bloomberg financial news service says crude oil for March delivery rose nearly $ 2 to hit $ 50.05 a barrel in late morning trading .
Analysts said colder-than-normal weather in key heating oil markets in Europe and the United States was one factor in boosting both demand and prices .
They also said traders are concerned that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries might cut production quotas further at a meeting next month .
The declining value of the U.S. dollar also played a role in boosting prices because international oil transactions are generally priced in dollars .
Thirty-two Cuban migrants have landed on a small island in the Florida Keys .
Coast Guard spokeswoman Sandra Bartlett said Friday the migrants were found on an uninhabited strip of land .
She said the Coast Guard picked up the Cubans and handed them over to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency .
A border protection spokesman said Friday the 32 were in good health .
He said the migrants told him they left Cuba Monday and arrived on the island Thursday night .
Nearly 1,500 Cubans were caught trying to reach the United States last year .
Cubans who set foot on U.S. territory are usually allowed to stay , while those intercepted at sea generally are sent home .
Jordan 's national security advisor and 10 other top officials have resigned , following last week 's suicide bombings at three hotels in Amman .
State media reported Tuesday that Jordan 's ambassador to Israel , Maruf Bakhit , would replace Saad Kheir as the security chief .
Royal Court chief Faisal Fayez also stepped down , and officials said Salim al-Turk would replace him .
No reasons were given for the resignations .
Also Tuesday , officials reported that a fourth American died from injuries suffered in the attacks , raising the death toll to 58 people .
Jordan 's Interior Ministry says it is pressing for quick approval of tougher anti-terrorism laws to prevent future attacks .
Al-Qaida in Iraq has claimed responsibility for the blasts carried out by three bombers .
Officials have arrested an Iraqi woman whose suicide vest failed to detonate in the attacks .
AN Orator afflicted with atrophy of the organ of common-sense rose in his place in the halls of legislation and pointed with pride to his Unblotted Escutcheon .
Seeing what it supposed to be the finger of scorn pointed at it , the Unblotted Escutcheon turned black with rage .
Seeing the Unblotted Escutcheon turning black with what he supposed to be the record of his own misdeeds showing through the whitewash , the Orator fell dead of mortification .
Seeing the Orator fall dead of what they supposed to be atrophy of the organ of common-sense , his colleagues resolved that whenever they should adjourn because they were tired , it should be out of respect to the memory of him who had so frequently made them so .
U.S. Army dog handler Sergeant Michael Smith has admitted to using his canine to scare Iraqi detainees into soiling themselves , according to witness testimony Tuesday .
The 24-year-old Smith is charged with 13 counts of abuse during his time at Abu Ghraib prison , located just outside Baghdad .
If convicted on all counts , he faces 24.5 years in prison .
Witness John Ketzer also worked at Abu Ghraib , and says the two had a contest to see if they could force the prisoners to soil themselves .
Abu Ghraib came to the public 's attention after a 2004 investigation revealed numerous cases of prisoner abuse by American soldiers .
Graphic photographs showing military personnel in the act of abusing prisoners were widely circulated and led to the discharge of more than a dozen U.S. soldiers .
The United Nations children 's fund , UNICEF , has appealed for an initial $ 20 million to provide emergency relief to children and families affected by the Pakistan earthquake .
The agency says that almost one in every five people in the affected area is a child under the age five , and nearly half are younger than 18 .
Many of the victims were schoolchildren just starting the day 's lessons when the quake struck .
UNICEF 's Executive Director Ann M. Veneman says the appeal means immediate action to save children 's lives .
She said needed assistance includes medical care , clean water , nutritional food for infants , clothing and shelter .
UNICEF says it has begun moving additional staff and supplies into Pakistan from its regional offices .
It says that , in addition , it is providing logistics and supplies for the frontline Pakistani surgical teams being dropped by helicopters into the most remote areas .
A group of about 150 South Koreans has arrived in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang to take part in a half marathon race aimed at promoting reconciliation between the two Koreas .
The South Korean runners arrived Wednesday and will join North Korean runners for Thursday 's 22-kilometer race through Pyongyang .
This first-ever jointly organized half marathon is being held to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Korea 's liberation from Japan .
After the race , the South Korean runners will take a two-day tour of historical sights and other attractions in Pyongyang .
They will return home on Saturday .
The event is the latest in a series of social , sports and cultural exchanges between the two Koreas since 2000 .
Is the leader of Coldplay icy to the press ? A Brazilian journalist claims Chris Martin is so rude that he feels sorry for his wife , actress Gwyneth Paltrow .
A writer from Folha de Sao Paolo opined " Gwyneth Paltrow must suffer .
Chris Martin , her husband , is n't one of the nicest persons on earth .
At least that 's what it seemed on the 20-minute press conference . "
While in Brazil , Chris Martin became testy when a reporter asked him if he were planning a duet with Gwyneth .
He also complained that all that matters in today 's pop market is that one 's song becomes a ringtone .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says it is spending $ 83 million to upgrade its two main air bases at Bagram and Kandahar .
The commander of U.S. air forces in the war-torn country , Brigadier General James Hunt , told a news conference in Kabul Monday the money will be spent to improve vital facilities at the two bases .
He said the military has been continuously improving runways , taxiways , navigation aids , airfield lighting , and other facilities .
The U.S.-led coalition has more than 17,000 troops in Afghanistan , mostly in the south and southeast , where the remnants of the ousted Taleban regime are most active .
Afghan leaders say they want a long-term strategic partnership with the United States , and Washington has expressed interest in having permanent bases in Afghanistan .
Members of the U.S. Congress have questioned top oil company executives about record-high oil and gasoline prices , record-high profits , and billions of dollars in tax breaks that help the companies .
The hearing before the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming convened Tuesday as gasoline prices hit an average price of 86 cents a liter ( $ 3.29 a gallon ) across the United States .
The top companies together cleared $ 123 billion in profits last year , with Exxon reaping about one-third of that .
Majority Democrats asked why such profitable companies need $ 18 billion in tax breaks , and why they do not invest more money in renewable energy sources , such as wind or solar .
The executives say their profits are reasonable considering the huge size of their companies .
They also argue that ending tax breaks will just make soaring oil costs hit consumers even harder .
Iraqi security forces say a car bomb exploded at a market in northern Diyala province Friday , killing at least 23 people .
Officials say the blast occurred in the town of Khalis and injured more than 50 people .
In late March , at least 42 people were killed in twin bombings near a restaurant in Khalis .
The explosions occurred shortly before Iraqi officials announced full preliminary results from the March 7 parliamentary election .
Election officials say former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's bloc won 91 seats , the most of any political group .
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's coalition won 89 .
Neither party had the majority needed to form a government .
Afghan officials say a clash between security forces and suspected Taleban militants in eastern Nangarhar province bordering Pakistan has left two militants and one woman dead .
The officials say heavy fighting between the troops and the insurgents hiding in a building in the province 's Chaparhar district began late Wednesday and lasted for hours .
Several suspected Taleban appeared to have fled .
Authorities say U.S. troops supported local forces .
But U.S. military officials could not confirm the incident .
The clash is the latest rebel violence to hit southern and eastern provinces .
U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban from power in late 2001 , after they refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11 attacks on the United States .
The African Union says it is making a symbolic contribution of $ 100,000 to areas affected by the Asian tsunami .
In announcing the donation , the African Union expressed its solidarity with victims from southeast Asia to the Indian Ocean coast of Africa .
The chairman of the African Union Commission , Alpha Oumar Konare , also expressed his solidarity and sympathy to everyone affected by the disaster .
He commended efforts by nations that are working to alleviate suffering , and called on African Union member states to provide assistance .
The tsunami devastated coastal areas from Malaysia to East Africa .
At least 200 people died in the northern Somali fishing community of Halfun .
The ocean surge also took lives in Tanzania , the Seychelles , and Kenya .
The European Union Naval Force says Somali pirates have hijacked a Panamanian-flagged cargo ship in the Gulf of Aden .
The European Union 's anti-piracy force said the MV Suez vessel was captured early Monday .
The ship has a 23-member crew from Egypt , Pakistan , Sri Lanka and India .
The EU force said the ship 's crew called for help when the vessel came under attack by gunfire , but by the time a naval helicopter arrived , the pirates had seized control .
Pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last few years , taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom payments from ship owners .
Hijackings have continued this year despite patrols off Somalia 's coast by warships from the United States , European Union , NATO and China .
Somalia 's central government , fighting an Islamist insurgency , lacks the power and resources to combat piracy .
The U.S. embassy in Nairobi has warned that Somali-based militants may attempt to kidnap Americans and other Westerners from Kenya 's tourist beaches .
An embassy statement Friday said there were indications that extremists might target Westerners at Kiwayu Island and other popular resorts along Kenya 's northeastern coast , near the Somali border .
The warning is based on a tip Kenyan police passed along to embassy officials .
Kenya closed its border with Somalia in January during fighting that pitted Islamic militia against Somali government troops and their Ethiopian allies .
The U.S. blames the al-Qaida terrorist network for the 1998 attack that destroyed its embassy in Nairobi and for a 2002 car bombing of a beachfront hotel in southeastern Kenya .
The U.S. military launched strikes on suspected al-Qaida targets in Somalia earlier this year .
The International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan says its paratroopers and Afghan National Army soldiers have advanced deep into the Taliban 's heartland in Helmand province .
A NATO statement Monday says the excursion marks the first time Afghan and ISAF forces " have driven this deep " into the area .
NATO said as the Afghan Army arrived in large numbers , the insurgents were not able to sustain the fight and retreated .
Also , several suspects have been arrested after a suicide attack killed six American troops when an explosives-packed minibus blew up at the entrance of a joint NATO-Afghan base in southern Afghanistan , officials said Monday .
The assault came days ahead of a major White House review of its Afghan strategy following President Barack Obama 's decision last year to send 30,000 American reinforcements in a bid to reverse gains by the Taliban since they were ousted from power in the 2001 U.S.-led invasion .
Two roadside bombings in the Iraqi capital Tuesday killed four people and wounded at least 15 others .
Iraqi officials say the attacks were aimed at police patrols in Baghdad .
Authorities say in one case , a roadside bomb exploded near a hospital in central Baghdad , killing a police officer and a civilian .
The second roadside attack happened in western Baghdad , killing two people .
A group of American civil rights lawyers and four Iraqi citizens have filed a criminal complaint in Germany calling for an investigation into top U.S. officials over the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal .
The Center for Constitutional Rights filed the complaint Tuesday with the German Federal Prosecutor 's office , under the doctrine of " universal jurisdiction " of alleged war criminals .
A statement from the group asks the German prosecutor to meet " obligations " under law to investigate allegations of torture and war crimes .
The statement alleges the four Iraqis were subject to beatings and sexual abuse while in U.S. detention at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison .
The complaint calls for an investigation into top U.S. officials , including Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , former CIA Director George Tenet and the former commander of U.S. forces in Iraq , Lieutenant General Ricardo Sanchez .
The attorneys say U.S. investigations into the abuse have not gone far enough .
A private Afghan television station has aired a video of an Italian aid worker kidnapped two weeks ago in Kabul .
The video footage , first aired by Tolo TV station Sunday , shows Clementina Cantoni wrapped in a blanket , sitting between two men pointing assault rifles at her head .
Ms. Cantoni , who works for CARE International , spoke quietly on the recording and looked nervous .
The TV station did not say how it had obtained the tape .
The Italian government called the video reassuring because it shows that Ms. Cantoni is in good health .
Without elaborating , a spokesman said " contacts are continuing . "
On Friday , Afghan religious leaders issued a fatwa , or religious decree , pledging death to anyone killing a foreigner who is in the country legally .
New fighting in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , has killed at least 11 people .
In one incident , Islamist insurgents fired mortars at an African Union peacekeepers ' base Wednesday , prompting soldiers to respond .
Witnesses say at least seven civilians were killed and several others injured .
In another incident , a clash between police and government soldiers at the Mogadishu police academy killed at least four people , including three soldiers and one policeman .
Reports say the clash began when police tried to take a gun from a solider .
Mogadishu has endured years of violence since the fall of Somalia 's last stable government in 1991 .
Thousands of residents have fled the city this week , ahead of an expected new round of fighting between the transitional government and the insurgents .
The government has promised an offensive against the Islamists , who control large portions of the capital .
French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin has successfully undergone gall bladder surgery .
Defense ministry officials say the surgery Saturday went well and they indicate that Mr. Raffarin will remain in the hospital for several days .
Earlier Saturday , Mr. Raffarin abruptly canceled plans to travel to World War II anniversary ceremonies in the city of Reims .
Instead , he entered the Paris Val De Grace military hospital .
The 56-year-old Mr. Raffarin assumed the post of prime minister three years ago .
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization says migratory birds from Africa could help spread Avian Flu in the coming months .
At the bird flu conference in Beijing , FAO Deputy Director-General David Harcharik says Avian Flu could become “ entrenched ” in the Black Sea , the Caucasus and Near East regions through trade and travel .
But he says migratory birds coming from Africa in the spring could spread it further .
The FAO official says countries in Africa deserve special attention .
He says if bird flu were to become “ rooted in the African countryside , the consequences of a continent already devastated by hunger and poverty could be truly catastrophic . ”
Pakistani officials say a bomb explosion ripped through a mosque in northwest Pakistan killing 11 people as they gathered for Friday prayers .
The blast targeted a mosque located next to local police headquarters in the Lower Dir region .
Hospital officials say at least 28 people were wounded in the bombing , including several children .
Lower Dir lies next to Swat Valley , the site of a fierce military offensive earlier this year to the oust the Taliban .
Militants have since retaliated with a series of attacks targeting security forces in the area .
In other violence , Pakistani intelligence officials say a suspected U.S. drone attack has killed three militants in the country 's northwest .
Officials say the drone fired missiles at a house in North Waziristan Friday , killing three militants and wounding two others .
The attack , was the third by a suspected U.S. drone since Thursday .
It is an anxious time for the families of several Western hostages being held in Iraq - they are awaiting news on the fate of their loved ones .
On Thursday , the Islamic Army in Iraq said it killed American security consultant Ronald Schulz .
The group promised to release photos of his murder , but there has been no evidence to corroborate its claim .
Meanwhile , the families of another American , a Briton and two Canadians continue to fear for their loved ones , as a Saturday deadline for their execution draws closer .
Their captors have threatened to kill them unless all Iraqi prisoners are freed .
Against this backdrop , Iraq is preparing for Thursday 's parliamentary election .
Voters will choose a new 275-member national assembly to sit for a four-year term .
The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the British during the 18th and 19th centuries and were administered by Jamaica after 1863 .
In 1959 , the islands became a territory within the Federation of the West Indies .
When the Federation dissolved in 1962 , the Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency .
Turkish police say one person was killed in a marketplace blast Saturday in the western port city of Izmir .
Officials say 14 others were wounded in the early morning blast .
Authorities say the homemade bomb was in a bag on a bicycle , and exploded as vendors were preparing their stalls for the day .
The blast comes one day before a planned massive demonstration in Izmir to support Turkey 's secular system .
Secularists say the government wants to undermine the country 's strict separation of state and religion .
It is not clear who was responsible for the blast , which shattered windows in homes and cars .
Kurdish militants , leftists and radical Islamic groups have carried out bombings in Turkey in the past .
At least 16 people were killed and an unknown number are still trapped in a residential building that collapsed in Lagos , Nigerla late Tuesday .
The four-story apartment building collapsed in the evening after many occupants had returned home from work .
Rescuers saved at least 36 people from the rubble , many of them injured .
The Associated Press says authorities are blaming poor construction as the likely cause of the collapse .
Poor construction has been blamed for previous collapses in Lagos , including the fall of an 18-story building in March that killed two people and injured 24 .
Opponents of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez marched through the streets of Caracas Saturday to demand a fair and legitimate vote during next Sunday 's local elections .
The protesters say they are concerned the August 7 vote will be plagued by irregularities favoring Mr. Chavez 's ruling party .
The protesters are demanding anti-fraud measures be put in place , including an independent audit of the vote .
Some supporters of the president threw rocks and bottles at the marchers .
Police blocked the crowd of at least 1,000 protesters from reaching the electoral council 's office where they had planned to hand over a list of demands .
Mr. Chavez 's opponents say he is ruling Venezuela like a dictator , and have accused him of rigging last year 's referendum of his rule , although international observers endorsed results of the vote .
Palestinian officials say Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has undergone a heart procedure at a hospital in Jordan .
Officials said Wednesday Mr. Abbas would only remain briefly at the hospital .
Reports say the Palestinian leader underwent an angioplasty , or procedure aimed at opening clogged heart arteries to increase the blood flow to his heart .
He is expected to return to the Palestinian territories Thursday .
Mr. Abbas met last week at the White House with President Bush , who reaffirmed his support for the creation of a Palestinian state .
Mr. Bush also offered 50 million dollars for housing and construction in the Gaza Strip after Israel pulls out in August .
Somalia 's transitional government has ordered the closure of four major news outlets in the capital , Mogadishu .
Officials issued a letter Monday ordering the al-Jazeera network and three local private radio stations - Shabelle , Holy Koran , and HornAfrik - to shut down their operations immediately .
A government spokesman , Abdirahman Dinari , said that now there is a government in place , the media outlets need to get a license , and , in his words , " avoid causing unrest by airing unconfirmed reports . "
The U.N.-backed Somali interim government declared three months of martial law on Saturday .
Uniformed gunmen have kidnapped the chief of Iraq 's Olympic Committee along with some 30 other sports officials and bodyguards .
Ahmed al-Hadjiya and the others were kidnapped Saturday afternoon from a conference center in Baghdad where they were holding a meeting .
Gunmen stormed the building , blindfolded and handcuffed the hostages , then drove them away in a convoy of vehicles .
The bodies of two bodyguards were found later dumped along a street .
The International Olympic Committee in Geneva condemned the kidnappings and called for the immediate release of the sports officials .
The kidnappings came after Iraq 's parliament voted to extend a state of emergency for 30 days in an effort to quell sectarian violence and insurgent attacks .
Elsewhere , fifteen people died in clashes and bombings , including two American soldiers .
Two new studies offer good news to those with high blood pressure .
The best part is the drugs are already available .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
France has summoned the Israeli ambassador in Paris to demand an immediate end to the construction of Jewish settlements .
A French Foreign Ministry spokesman , Eric Chevallier , says the ministry 's political director met with Israeli Ambassador Daniel Shek on Thursday and called for a halt to settlement building , including in east Jerusalem .
Earlier this week , both the European Union and Russia called on Israel to halt plans to build some 20 new apartments in east Jerusalem 's Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood .
Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said Tuesday that Israel has the right to build anywhere in Jerusalem .
The French Foreign Ministry on Thursday also urged Israel to reopen border crossings in the Gaza Strip , to allow reconstruction of the Palestinian territory following Israel 's offensive that ended in January .
French officials expressed concern about restrictions on the movements of French diplomats in the Palestinian territories due to Israeli security measures .
The United Nations War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague will hold the first of a series of hearings Thursday on whether to transfer cases against 18 suspects to national courts in the Balkans .
Court spokesman Jim Landale told VOA the tribunal will consider a prosecution motion to transfer the cases against war crimes suspects Mirko Norac and Rahim Ademi to courts in Croatia .
The two , both Croatian army officers , are accused of killing Serb civilians in Croatia 's Medak pocket in 1993 .
He said the court will hold several more hearings against other suspects in coming months .
The Hague court is scheduled to complete all its activities by 2010 .
The prosecution calls the nine cases a " first batch " and says other cases may be moved to the Balkans later to allow The Hague tribunal to deal with more important trials .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has failed to meet a United Nations Security Council deadline for suspending uranium enrichment .
That assessment came in an IAEA report delivered to the U.N. Security Council Friday .
On Thursday , U.S. Ambassador John Bolton said the United States is seeking a legally binding U.N. resolution to demand that Iran halt the enrichment .
The so-called Chapter Seven resolution would clear the way for possible penalties against Iran , and would leave the door open to possible future military action .
But China and Russia , who also are veto-wielding members of the Security Council , oppose sanctions against Iran .
Despite the international pressure , Iran remains defiant about its nuclear program , which it says is for peaceful purposes .
The United States accuses Tehran of seeking nuclear weapons .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying Iran does not " give a damn " about Security Council resolutions .
Pakistani officials say at least 90 people have been killed in the worst flooding in Pakistan 's northwest in almost 100 years .
Heavy monsoon rains continued to flood Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province Thursday , leaving towns in the Swat Valley badly affected .
Several thousand people have been displaced .
Aid workers say the heavy rains are impeding the ability to reach affected areas by helicopter .
Just across the border in Afghanistan , NATO says the Afghan National Army rescued more than 200 Afghan civilians stranded by flash floods in Nangarhar province .
Another 50 people have been killed in southern Pakistan since storms began earlier this month .
Rescue workers say more than 50,000 people have been impacted in the worst-hit areas of Baluchistan province .
Bad weather also was said to be a factor in the crash of a passenger plane Wednesday in the capital , Islamabad .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has asked the Security Council to move faster to help end violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Mr. Annan met with council members Monday after new reports that people are being killed and raped , and villages continue to be burned in Darfur .
He says council members promised to introduce a new resolution on Darfur this week , which will include measures for holding accountable those accused of crimes .
Security Council members are also considering sending peacekeepers or imposing sanctions on Sudan 's government .
Mr. Annan says U.N. members should back an African Union team monitoring a cease-fire between pro-government forces and Darfur rebels .
Meantime , the top U.N. humanitarian official , Jan Egeland , says humanitarian conditions have improved in Darfur , despite continued fighting .
A former Serb leader of the Yugoslav Army has surrendered to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
General Momcilo Perisic is the fourth high-ranking Serb suspect to turn himself in this year for alleged crimes during the 1990s Balkan wars .
The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia made public Monday eight counts of crimes against humanity and five counts of war crimes against General Perisic for his role as Chief of the General Staff of the Yugoslav Army .
The tribunal states the charges cover his actions in Sarajevo , Zagreb and Srebrenica .
The former general said last week that appearing before the tribunal was the best way to defend his honor and the reputation of the army .
An outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least four peacocks and one goose in the Pakistani capital , Islamabad .
A livestock official from the ministry of Food and Agriculture said test results confirmed the presence of H5N1 and that affected birds are being destroyed .
Officials have closed Islamabad 's Marghzar zoo where the outbreak occurred .
This is the fourth case of deadly bird flu detected in Pakistan .
No human cases have been recorded .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb explosion has killed at least 20 people in northern Baghdad .
The blast Thursday ripped through a crowd near a busy shopping area in the mainly Shi'ite neighborhood of Shaab .
Iraqi officials say at least four children and three women are among the dead .
At least 35 others were wounded .
On Wednesday , U.S. and Iraqi security officials said the number of insurgent attacks in Iraq has fallen to the lowest level in nearly six years .
Officials acknowledged that daily attacks continue in some areas , but military spokesman Major General David Perkins said the number of insurgent attacks has declined 90 percent since mid-2007 , when the unrest was at its height .
Iraqi police said a roadside bombing in the northern city of Mosul Wednesday killed three children on their way home from school .
The attack is believed to have targeted a nearby U.S. military patrol .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian says he plans to join a rally Saturday in Taipei to protest China 's threat to use force against the island if it formally declares independence .
The protest is being held amid this week 's one-year anniversary of China 's approval of an anti-secession law .
The law says China will employ " non-peaceful means " to prevent Taiwan 's independence if efforts at peaceful reunification fail .
China and Taiwan split in 1949 after a civil war , but Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province .
Mr. Chen angered Beijing last month when he decided to stop funding a unification council and scrap guidelines for reunification with China .
People in Georgia are voting Thursday to choose more than 1,700 members of municipal and regional councils .
The local elections are seen as a test of support for President Mikhail Saakashvili 's National Movement and its pro-Western stance .
The election originally focused on local issues , but may now be seen as a barometer of Mr. Saakashvili 's performance in his standoff with Russia following last week 's arrest of four Russian officers accused of spying .
The Russian government has severed transport and postal links with Tbilisi , cutting an economic lifeline for hundreds of thousands of Georgians dependent on relatives living in Russia .
Since coming to power in the 2003 Rose Revolution , Mr. Saakashvili has sought to forge closer ties with the European Union and United States .
Additionally , Georgia has long accused Russia of interfering in its internal affairs by backing separatists in two breakaway areas of the country - Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
The West Bank - the larger of the two areas comprising the Palestinian territories - experienced a high single-digit economic growth rate in 2010 as a result of inflows of donor aid , the Palestinian Authority 's ( PA ) implementation of economic and security reforms , and the easing of some movement and access restrictions by the Israeli Government .
Nevertheless , overall standard-of-living measures remain near levels seen prior to the start of the second intifada in 2000 .
The almost decade-long downturn largely has been a result of Israeli closure policies - a steady increase in movement and access restrictions across the West Bank in response to Israeli security concerns which have disrupted labor and trade flows , industrial capacity , and basic commerce , both external and internal .
Since 2008 , the PA under President Mahmoud ABBAS and Prime Minister Salam FAYYAD has implemented a largely successful campaign of institutional reforms that has contributed to increased security and economic performance , supported by more than $ 3 billion in direct foreign donor assistance to the PA 's budget since 2007 .
An easing of some Israeli restrictions on West Bank movement and access since 2008 also has contributed to an uptick in retail activity in larger cities .
The biggest impediments to economic improvements in the West Bank remain Palestinians ' lack of access to land and resources in Israeli-controlled areas , import and export restrictions , and a high-cost capital structure .
Absent robust private sector growth , the PA will continue to rely heavily on donor aid for its budgetary needs .
Montevideo , founded by the Spanish in 1726 as a military stronghold , soon took advantage of its natural harbor to become an important commercial center .
Claimed by Argentina but annexed by Brazil in 1821 , Uruguay declared its independence four years later and secured its freedom in 1828 after a three-year struggle .
The administrations of President Jose BATLLE in the early 20th century established widespread political , social , and economic reforms that established a statist tradition .
A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement named the Tupamaros , launched in the late 1960s , led Uruguay 's president to cede control of the government to the military in 1973 .
By yearend , the rebels had been crushed , but the military continued to expand its hold over the government .
Civilian rule was not restored until 1985 .
In 2004 , the left-of-center Frente Amplio Coalition won national elections that effectively ended 170 years of political control previously held by the Colorado and Blanco parties .
Uruguay 's political and labor conditions are among the freest on the continent .
Initial sales reports from U.S. retailers have been mixed at the beginning of the important Christmas holiday shopping season .
A national shopping research group , ShopperTrak RCT corp. , reported Friday 's total sales at $ 8 billion , down about .9 percent from last year .
Sales had been projected to rise by about four percent .
Retailers rely on the first few days after the Thanksgiving holiday as a key time to boost overall sales for the year .
They offer deep discounts and special deals to draw consumers shopping for presents for the annual gift-giving season .
Sales figures were not down for all U.S. retailers .
Discount store chain Wal-Mart reported sales for the month of November were up 4.3 percent from last year .
Analysts examine store receipts at this time of year for clues about the overall strength of the US economy .
The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean , but larger than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean ) .
Four critically important access waterways are the Suez Canal ( Egypt ) , Bab el Mandeb ( Djibouti-Yemen ) , Strait of Hormuz ( Iran-Oman ) , and Strait of Malacca ( Indonesia-Malaysia ) .
The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean , the Southern Ocean , removed the portion of the Indian Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude .
The U.S. Secret Service has begun protecting Democratic Senator and presidential candidate Barack Obama - a full 18 months before the country 's next presidential election .
The Department of Homeland Security says Obama requested the protection .
His fellow senator from Illinois , Richard Durban , tells reporters he got information that made him concerned for Obama 's safety , including some racist remarks on the Internet .
Obama is seeking to become the first African-American U.S. president .
Normally , protection for U.S. presidential candidates is not provided until the election year .
Senator Durbin says he also was concerned about the large crowds that Obama draws at campaign events .
New York Senator and presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has Secret Service protection , but hers is linked to her status as a former first lady .
NATO officials say alliance troops Friday raided the home of Mladjen Kenjic , a suspected backer of fugitive wartime Bosnian Serb military commander General Ratko Mladic .
A NATO spokesman says troops searched his home in the village of Vojkovici , just outside Sarajevo .
News reports identify Mr. Kenjic as a former member of General Mladic 's personal security team .
The Hague tribunal indicted General Mladic on genocide and other charges for attacks against civilians during the 1990 's conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Media reports in the United States say the Central Intelligence Agency has closed a unit that was devoted to tracking international terrorist leader Osama bin Laden and his top lieutenants .
The New York Times Tuesday published a report quoting officials who confirmed that the unit was disbanded last year , and that its analysts were reassigned within the agency 's counterterrorism center .
Initial news of the unit 's closure was reported on National Public Radio Monday .
The Times quotes a CIA spokeswoman , Jennifer Millerwise Dyck , as saying bin Laden 's capture remains a high priority .
Intelligence officials say the unit closure reflects a view that al-Qaida is not as hierarchical as it once was , and that terrorists may be carrying out attacks independent of bin Laden .
The Times reports that the disbanded unit , known as Alec Station , operated for a decade just outside Washington , and was staffed by 24 people .
Sweden 's Anja Paerson has won her second career World Cup downhill ski race by edging home favorite Michaela Dorfmeister by 0.04 seconds in Bad Kleinkirchheim , Austria ( 1:37.70 to 1:37.74 ) .
Fraenzi Aufdenblatten of Sweden was a close third , only 0.08 seconds off the pace ( 1:37.78 ) .
Croatian Janica Kostelic , the World Cup overall leader , missed the podium by a mere 0.01 seconds ( 1:37.79 ) .
She finished less than 0.10 seconds behind Paerson , her main rival for the World Cup overall title .
Last season , Kostelic was second to Paerson overall by just three points .
So far this season the Croatian skier has 782 points to the Swede 's 685 .
Another women 's downhill will be held Saturday at the same site , followed by a Super G on Sunday at the redesigned Franz Klammer slope , where the first World Cup is being staged since 1997 .
Officials in Afghanistan say at least 14 people have been killed in a bomb blast in the southern province of Uruzgan .
A provincial government spokesman said the blast occurred Friday on a road leading to Uruzgan 's capital , Tirin Kot .
It was not immediately clear who may have been behind the blast .
Taleban insurgents have been blamed for most roadside bombings and suicide attack in Afghanistan .
On Thursday , local officials in southern Kandahar province said NATO operations killed at least 60 civilians earlier in the week week .
NATO officials dispute that account , saying 12 civilians were killed and 48 insurgents died in the clashes Tuesday .
The alliance also says it is not clear if the civilians were killed because of Taleban or NATO action .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has appointed a commission to investigate .
British police have evacuated 20,000 people from the central city of Birmingham , after intelligence suggested a security threat .
Police on Saturday said they do not think the threat to England 's second-biggest city is linked to Thursday 's bombings in London .
No specific information about the threat to Birmingham was released .
Located 175 kilometers northwest of the capital , Birmingham has a lively entertainment district , packed with restaurants and nightclubs .
In London , British authorities say the four bombs that devastated three subway trains and one bus Thursday were high explosives , not homemade devices .
They note the explosions were almost simultaneous , and were likely set off by timing devices .
Recovery crews are working to extricate bodies still trapped in a subway tunnel .
British officials say the London attacks bear the hallmarks of the al-Qaida terrorist network .
A police officer was shot and killed in southwestern Pakistan during violent riots that broke out after three local political leaders were found dead .
The policeman was killed Thursday when rioters opened fire in Khuzdar , a town in Baluchistan province .
Earlier , the bodies of three Baluch nationalist leaders were discovered in another part of the province .
For years , Baluch groups have been campaigning for greater control of the province 's gas and other resources .
One such group , the Baluchistan Liberation United Front , claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of an American United Nations official , John Solecki , who was recently freed .
The group had demanded the release of more than 1,100 ethnic Baluchs who were detained by the Pakistani government .
Sudanese authorities say Darfur rebels killed 41 people in a raid this week on a police garrison in the Kordofan region .
The two largest rebel groups fighting the government - the Sudanese Liberation Movement and the Justice and Equality Movement - have both claimed responsibility for the attack .
They targeted a police garrison Wednesday in the town of Wad Banda - about 600 kilometers southwest of the capital of Khartoum , and just outside war-torn Darfur .
The Sudanese government says police and troops captured some of the raiders , but did not say how many they caught .
More than four years of fighting between rebels , the government and militia groups has killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced more than two million others .
The group which annually releases a report on " freedom around the world " is now turning its attention to the United States .
Freedom House has released a study on the status of American freedoms during the war on terror .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti has the story .
Pakistan has won final approval for a $ 7.6 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund .
The money is intended to support Pakistan 's efforts to stabilize and rebuild its economy .
In a statement Monday , the IMF says Pakistan will have immediate access to the first installment of $ 3.1 billion with the rest being distributed in quarterly payments over a 23-month period .
The IMF says the loan program will help restore the confidence of investors , as well as maintain social stability and provide adequate support for the poor .
The Pakistani economy has been badly hit by a worsening security situation , higher oil and food prices , and the global financial and credit crisis .
Lawmakers in Kosovo have elected a new prime minister .
Former student activist Bajram Kosumi replaces Ramush Haradinaj , who resigned as prime minister earlier this month after he was indicted for war crimes .
Mr. Kosumi is a close associate of Mr. Haradinaj .
Mr. Kosumi needed 61 votes for the post .
He received 71 votes in the 120-seat parliament .
His government is expected to lead the disputed Serbian province into talks with the United Nations on its future status .
Mr. Haradinaj resigned to defend himself against charges of war crimes allegedly committed during Kosovo 's war against Serb forces in the late 1990s .
He has since surrendered to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
Interior and justice ministers from the Group of Eight countries have agreed on the need for a common strategy to deal with piracy .
After a two-day meeting in Rome ended Saturday , the ministers said their countries will work together to deal with Somali pirates who operate in shipping lanes off the Horn of Africa .
They also discussed jurisdiction problems that sometimes result in the release of captured pirates .
They cited the need to strengthen their ability to investigate and prosecute piracy , in addition to recovering assets illegally obtained by pirates .
Also at their meeting , the ministers agreed on the need to take action against Internet crime , such as identity theft and child pornography .
The members of the G8 group are Canada , France , Germany , Italy , Japan , Russia , Britain and the United States .
The U.N. Security Council has unanimously adopted a resolution demanding that Syria comply with the U.N. probe into the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The Western-sponsored resolution warns of unspecified " further action " if Syria does not comply with investigators .
In last-minute negotiations , Security Council members agreed to drop references to economic sanctions after some members objected .
The United States , France and Britain pressed for the resolution after last week 's U.N. report implicated top Syrian and Lebanese security officials in the February bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and 20 others .
Monday 's resolution demands Syria impose a financial freeze and travel ban on suspects named in the probe .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Monday the resolution makes it clear Syria faces serious consequences if it does not comply with the probe into the killings .
Syria has criticized the U.N. report and vowed to open its own probe .
Ukraine 's parliament has set February 25 for the swearing in of President-elect Viktor Yanukovych , as defeated rival Yulia Tymoshenko continues efforts to overturn election results .
A majority of 238 lawmakers in the 450-seat parliament voted Tuesday for the date .
But factions loyal to Ms. Tymoshenko , the current prime minister , boycotted the vote as the fiery politician prepared to contest election results in court .
Ms. Tymoshenko claims vote rigging by the Yanukovych camp robbed her of one million votes in the February 7 runoff election .
Final results show her losing by nearly 888,000 votes , and Tuesday an allied lawmaker said she repeated her vow not to leave office voluntarily .
Last week , the poll-monitoring unit of Europe 's largest security grouping , the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , said the Ukrainian election was free and fair .
Iraqi security officials said unidentified gunmen have killed a Sunni Muslim cleric and wounded his son in a town northeast of Baghdad that was rocked by a suicide bombing earlier this week .
Security officials said the attackers apparently used guns equipped with silencers when they opened fire late Thursday on the imam of a local mosque in Jalawla , an ethnically-mixed town in Diyala province .
On Monday , a suicide bomber targeting Kurdish mourners in Jalawla killed at least 27 people and wounded around 50 more .
The town lies near the border between northern Iraq 's largely autonomous Kurdish region and the rest of Iraq , where Arabs are in the majority .
Tensions between Arabs and Kurds can run high in the border areas .
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has offered words of support to survivors of Monday 's tsunami during his visit to a hard-hit beach town on the southern coast of Java island .
Mr. Yudhoyono Friday toured the Pangandaran coastal area , where at least 550 people were killed by a powerful wall of water that hurtled ashore after an undersea earthquake .
The president joined in prayers with thousands of villagers who were displaced by the tsunami .
Many people are spending the nights in temporary shelters made of plastic and other makeshift materials .
Their homes were damaged or destroyed by a two-meter-high wave .
Rescue workers are still searching for bodies and at least 235 missing people .
Aid agencies are tending to the hundreds of injured and others in need .
Venezuelan legislators loyal to President Hugo Chavez have passed a measure they say is designed to limit sex and violence in the broadcast media but opponents say is intended to limit press freedom .
The lawmakers passed the measure late Wednesday on a party-line vote .
Supporters say it is designed to protect children from scenes of sex and excessive violence on television and radio .
But opponents say the law is merely an attempt by President Chavez to control the media and news content and to muzzle critics of the president .
Under the measure , violators would face heavy fines and even have their licenses revoked .
Officials say the bill has been sent to President Chavez for his signature .
Turkish prosecutors are investigating whether Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan once referred to jailed Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan as esteemed .
Turkey 's main opposition party says Mr. Erdogan referred to Ocalan as " Sayin " or esteemed during a 2000 interview .
Prosecutors are examining recordings of the comments .
Praising Ocalan is a criminal offense in Turkey .
Several Kurdish politicians are facing charges of referring to him in the honorific .
Mr. Erdogan 's allies say he never referred to Ocalan in the honorific .
Mr. Erdogan , as a member of parliament , has immunity from criminal prosecution .
He is considering running for Turkish president in May elections .
Ocalan heads the Kurdistan Workers Party , PKK , which has been fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984 .
He was captured and convicted in 1999 .
A U.S. federal jury has ordered a woman to pay $ 222,000 to six record companies that sued her for downloading and sharing copyrighted music online .
The jury in the northern state of Minnesota on Thursday ordered Jammie Thomas , 30 , a single mother of two , to pay more than $ 9,000 for each of 24 recordings the case focused on .
In the first case of its type to go to trial , the record companies accused Thomas of downloading and sharing songs through an online service called Kazaa .
In her defense , Thomas said she never had an account with the service .
Recording companies have brought more than 26,000 lawsuits against music downloaders since 2003 , in an ongoing campaign against piracy .
Despite their efforts , the practice of online file-sharing continues to increase .
The Zambian government is projecting an average of 6 % growth in its gross domestic product between 2006 and 2008 .
Analysts say mining and construction will continue to dominate the economy .
They say other sectors that should contribute to growth include manufacturing , tourism , transport , storage and communications .
The government says it will focus on labor-intensive sectors such as agriculture and manufacturing .
Particular attention will be placed on expanding rural infrastructure , such as feeder roads , bridges and dams .
Zambia recorded a 4.6 percent GDP growth rate in 2004 , thanks mainly to increased copper production .
Zambian finance minister Peter Magande spoke to English to Africa reporter Peter Clottey from the capital , Lusaka .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's eldest son has been indicted in connection with a corruption investigation involving his father 's 1999 political campaign .
Omri Sharon is a member of Parliament from his father 's conservative Likud Party .
Israeli Justice Ministry officials said Sunday the son faces charges of violating campaign finance laws , forgery and perjury in connection with his role as manager of his father 's bid for Likud Party leadership in 1999 .
Omri Sharon was accused of receiving illegal campaign contributions in 1999 and 2000 and funneling the money through a false corporation .
If convicted , he could face up to five years in prison .
Attorneys for the younger Mr. Sharon have not commented on the charges .
Bombings in the Iraqi Shi'ite holy cities of Najaf and Karbala have killed more than 40 people .
Hospital officials in Najaf say 30 of the deaths occurred when a suicide bomber targeted a crowd gathered near the Imam Ali Shrine for a funeral .
Sixty-five people were wounded .
Earlier in the day Sunday , a suicide car-bomb explosion in Karbala killed at least 12 people and wounded about 30 outside the main bus station .
In central Baghdad , insurgents dragged three Iraqi election workers from a car and shot them to death .
Televised photographs showed gunmen standing over their bound victims and firing pistols into them .
Separately , insurgents say they are threatening to kill 10 Iraqi hostages unless their U.S. employer ends operations in Iraq .
A videotape of the blindfolded hostages has been broadcast on Arab television .
The Lebanese government has set 5 August for special elections to fill the vacant seats of two assassinated anti-Syrian members of parliament .
The government Saturday announced the election to fill the seat of Walid Eido , who was killed by a car bomb in Beirut Wednesday .
There also will be an election on the same day to fill the seat of Industry Minister Pierre Gemayel , who was killed in November .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud opposes the elections .
He has vowed to block them , saying the cabinet action setting the elections is illegal .
However , Lebanon 's governing coalition says it will go ahead with the elections despite Mr. Lahoud 's opposition .
Seven anti-Syrian figures in Lebanon , including former prime minister Rafik Hariri , have been killed in similar bombings or other attacks since 2005 .
Syria has denied involvement in the killings .
The U.S. Labor Department says employers in the United States added 337,000 new workers in October , nearly double the rate predicted by analysts .
The report released Friday indicates that 2.2 million jobs have been added since August , 2003 .
Jobs grew in every sector except manufacturing , with much of the growth due to hurricane clean-up efforts in Florida .
Adding to the significant increase in jobs , the Labor Department said average earnings for workers increased by 2.6 percent this year .
The resurgent labor market data comes days before Federal Reserve policymakers meet in Washington to consider raising short-term interest rates .
Analysts say the large increase in jobs makes it likely the U.S. central bank will increase the rate for the fourth time this year , lifting it to two percent .
A LION , worn out with years and powerless from disease , lay on the ground at the point of death .
A Boar rushed upon him , and avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury .
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he were an enemy .
When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity , he let drive at his forehead with his heels .
The expiring Lion said , " I have reluctantly brooked the insults of the brave , but to be compelled to endure such treatment from thee , a disgrace to Nature , is indeed to die a double death . "
Police in Pakistan have arrested four men in connection with the bombing of the Islamabad Marriott Hotel on September 20 .
The four men have not been charged in the case , but authorities say they will be held for at least seven days as police continue their investigation .
Police describe the men as being suspected of " indirect involvement " in the attack .
The four appeared in court on Friday , hooded and handcuffed to policemen .
About 60 people were killed when a suicide bomber exploded a truck loaded with explosives just outside the main entrance to the hotel .
Islamist militants are the main suspects in the attack .
Authorities say the four men detained were picked up under anti-terrorism statutes at various locations around Pakistan .
Pakistani security officials say suspected U.S. drones on Monday attacked a Taliban stronghold in the troubled northwest region , killing six people and wounding at least 15 others .
Security officials say the suspected drones fired missiles at a house and nearby seminary run by Taliban commander Jalauddin Haqqani .
The United States has not confirmed the strikes .
The attack took place in the tribal town of Miran Shah in North Waziristan near the border with Afghanistan .
U.S. intelligence official say Pakistani militants in the tribal areas have allied with al-Qaida in plotting attacks against U.S. and allied troops in Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's newly-elected President , Asif Ali Zardari , has said he is willing to work with the United States to combat militants .
But tensions rose last week after U.S. forces reportedly crossed into Pakistan from Afghanistan during a raid .
Mr. Zardari is scheduled to be sworn in early this week .
Turkish Foreign Minister Ali Babacan is in Greece for talks on confidence building between the two countries .
Babacan and his Greek counterpart , Dora Bakoyannis , told reporters Tuesday in Athens they have agreed to increase military and economic cooperation , conduct high-level visits and participate in joint search and rescue efforts .
Bakoyannis said Greece supports Turkey 's efforts to join the European Union .
Turkey and Greece have long been at odds over Cyprus and Aegean Sea territorial disputes , but their relationship has improved in recent years .
Last month , Greek and Turkish officials opened a pipeline project that will carry natural gas from Azerbaijan through Turkey and Greece to Italy .
Babacan 's two-day visit to Greece includes meetings with Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis , President Karolos Papoulias and other top Greek officials .
He is also scheduled to visit a Turkish community in northeastern Greece .
U.S. President Barack Obama said the economy is returning to normal .
He spoke after meeting with a panel of outside economic advisors headed by former Federal Reserve chief Paul Volcker .
Mr. Obama said the group is offering him advice on energy , financial regulations , employment , and manufacturing .
While economic issues were under review at the White House , the U.S. House of Representatives is discussing changes in the rules governing credit card companies .
The Senate has already passed a bill that prevents some of the actions that have angered many customers , including arbitrary interest rate hikes on existing balances .
The lower house passed a similar bill earlier , and once differences are worked out , it will be sent to the president for his signature .
Mr. Obama has endorsed credit card reforms .
Three U.S. soldiers were killed and eight wounded in Iraq Friday , in a roadside bomb attack .
The U.S. military says the explosion occurred where a unit was on patrol in Tarmiyah , about 35 kilometers northeast of Baghdad .
Meanwhile , the Iraqi government announced that its security forces have captured a key lieutenant of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi -- Iraq 's most wanted man .
Talib al-Dulaymi was captured Sunday northwest of Baghdad , near the Syrian border .
He is accused of arranging meetings of terrorist network leaders with al-Zarqawi .
On the political front , the leading contender to be the next prime minister , Ibrahim al-Jaafari , met Friday in Najaf with Iraq 's top Shi'ite religious authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
Mr. Jaafari said later they discussed the importance of including the country 's Sunni Muslim community , which mostly boycotted the election , in the process of drafting Iraq 's permanent constitution .
Police in Indian Kashmir say government forces have killed five suspected Islamic militants during a raid on their hide-out north of the winter capital of Jammu and Kashmir state .
Police say troops are searching for three other suspected guerillas believed to be hiding in the area some 150 kilometers north of Jammu .
Violence in Kashmir continues despite pledges by India and Pakistan to strengthen the peace process .
Kashmiri militants have been fighting India since 1989 for independence or a merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
The two nuclear rivals fought three wars , two of them over control of the Himalayan region , since they won independence from Britain in 1947 .
A leaked White House memo on Social Security says President Bush should consider cutting benefits for future retirees .
President Bush 's director of strategic initiatives , Peter Wehner , warns in the memo of serious economic consequences if Social Security benefits are not reduced .
Mr. Wehner says passing such reforms would rank as one of the most significant conservative governing achievements ever .
Some Democrats say the memo shows the administration will use scare tactics to push reforms .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan downplayed the memo Thursday , saying it was meant to describe the challenges facing the federal program .
He emphasized the president has not decided how to change the retirement system .
The Social Security system is projected to start losing money in 2018 and run out of money in 2042 .
A Syrian court has acquitted a leading human rights activist of various accusations of anti-government activity , dropping all charges against him .
The State Security Court said Sunday Aktham Naisse , chairman of the Committees for the Defense of Democratic Liberties and Human Rights in Syria , was exonerated of all charges .
Mr. Naisse was arrested in April , 2004 on charges of spreading false information , forming an underground group , having links to international human rights organizations and other charges related to opposing the ruling Baath Party .
He was released on bail after spending nearly five months in jail for publishing a report on human rights in Syria and urging an end to 40 years of emergency rule that has stifled political life in the country .
A spokesman for the Arab Human Rights Organization welcomed the verdict and expressed hope that other political prisoners would be released soon .
South Korea scored a 3-1 win over Germany on Sunday , in a friendly football match played in Busan , South Korea .
South Korea opened the scoring in the 16th minute when midfielder Kim Dong-jin netted a left-footer .
But the Germans tied the match at 1-1 just eight minutes later when Michael Ballack converted a free-kick .
Second-half goals by Lee Dong-gook and Cho Jae-jin secured the win for South Korea .
The victory was vindication for the hosts , who lost 1-0 to Germany in the semifinals of the 2002 World Cup .
The loss was the first for Germany under coach Juergen Klinsmann , who took over five months ago and has shaken the team up after its first-round exit from Euro 2004 .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is speaking " a different language " to Palestinians , and that the two sides are embarking on a " new era " after more than four years of violence .
In an interview with The New York Times published Monday , Mr. Abbas praised Mr. Sharon for his commitment to withdraw from the Gaza Strip and four small West Bank settlements .
Mr. Abbas , who was elected president of the Palestinian Authority last month , said the Israeli leader " now has a partner " to work with for peace .
Mr. Abbas said he has set the release of Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails as his first priority .
Sunday , an Israeli Cabinet committee approved the release of 500 Palestinian prisoners .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has announced a limited reshuffle of his cabinet , dropping his long-time Foreign Minister Abdullah .
An aide for Mr. Karzai says Abdullah will be replaced by Rangeen Dadfar Spanta , a presidential adviser on foreign affairs .
It was not immediately clear why Abdullah was replaced .
Other changes included the replacement of Women 's Affairs Minister Masouda Jalal with Suraya Raheem Subhrang .
Zarar Ahmad Moqbil , who has been acting interior minister since last September , was appointed to the post permanently .
Among the key ministers who will keep their jobs are Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak , Counternarcotics Minister Habibullah Qaderi and Economy Minister Amin Farhang .
The changes are subject to approval by the Afghan parliament , which is likely to be presented with the final list of the new cabinet later this week .
The World Health Organization estimates there are about 18 million people with Alzheimer 's disease .
And that figure is expected to double by the year 2025 .
Many of those Alzheimer 's patients will live in developing countries .
New U.S. figures estimate that one out of every eight Americans will also develop the disease .
But as VOA 's Melinda Smith reports , there is ample evidence that something can be done about it now .
Workers and management for U.S. airplane manufacturer Boeing have reached a tentative agreement that could end a three-week strike that shut down production .
Leaders of the union representing Boeing 's machinists ( the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ) urged 18,000 members to accept the three-year deal , saying it will address key issues such as health care premiums and pension payouts .
Under the deal , pension payouts for union members would increase to $ 70 per month for every year served - a $ 10 increase over the current rate .
Boeing officials say there will be no change to its current health care plan .
But workers could receive an eight percent signing bonus if the agreement is ratified .
Thousands of union members began the strike against the nation 's largest commercial airline manufacturer on September 2 .
They are set to vote on the deal on Thursday .
A South Korean official says North Korea must resume talks with Seoul before any new agricultural aid is forthcoming .
Vice Unification Minister Rhee Bong-jo made the remarks to reporters during a visit to New York City Tuesday .
Mr. Rhee is in the United States for talks with U.S. officials .
Pyongyang has requested 500,000 tons of fertilizer from Seoul , the largest request it has ever made .
North Korea has been dealing with chronic food shortages , and relies heavily on foreign aid to feed its people .
Talks between the two Koreas were broken off last year after South Korea airlifted more than 450 North Korean refugees to Seoul from Vietnam .
Ukraine 's top prosecutor says authorities have detained two police officers who were ordered to abduct and kill investigative journalist Georgy Gongadze .
Prosecutor General Svyatoslav Piskun said Wednesday that authorities are searching for another suspect who is a former member of the Interior Ministry .
Mr. Piskun told reporters that preliminary tests indicate the journalist died of strangulation .
Mr. Gongadze , a frequent critic of then president , Leonid Kuchma , disappeared in September 2000 .
His headless body was found outside Kiev several weeks later .
Opponents of Mr. Kuchma , as well as his former bodyguard , have accused the former president of being involved in the killing , a charge he has denied .
President Viktor Yushchenko has vowed to solve the case .
China 's official news agency says flooding and landslides in the country 's southern provinces have killed at least 37 people in the last four days .
State-run Xinhua news says the flooding , triggered by heavy rains , has forced at least 178,000 people from their homes in the provinces of Guangdong , Guizhou , Hunan , and Guangxi .
It says the highest death toll was in Guangdong , where 14 people were reported killed and four others are missing .
The rains have destroyed thousands of homes and damaged large areas of farmland .
On Friday , the Sichuan province was battered by hailstorms , lightning strikes , and landslides that killed seven people .
U.S. government health officials say a record number of Americans have diabetes and many more are likely to get it .
VOA 's Carol Pearson reports even developing countries need to be concerned about this disease .
The Colombian government has offered to meet unconditionally with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) to discuss a possible prisoner swap .
Peace Commissioner Luis Carlos Restrepo Wednesday said the government is ready for a direct and immediate meeting with FARC .
He added that the meeting could take place any time and anywhere FARC chooses .
The announcement followed a meeting between President Alvaro Uribe and relatives of rebel hostages .
FARC is said to be holding 59 hostages , including former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt , and three Americans .
FARC , along with a smaller rebel group and rightist paramilitaries , is locked in a long-running war with the government that kills thousands of people each year .
Turkish officials say Iraqi Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has arrived in the Turkish capital , Ankara , for talks with officials on the political situation in neighboring Iraq .
Several media reports on Friday said the staunchly anti-American cleric was scheduled to meet with Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan .
Sadr is the most prominent Shi'ite opponent of the U.S. military presence in Iraq .
He has not been seen in public since 2007 , and he is believed to have been either in Iran or hiding in Iraq .
His supporters have periodically relayed messages to protest rallies , most recently last month , on the sixth anniversary of the U.S. capture of Baghdad .
Nepal 's Election Commission says it will not be ready to hold elections in June for a constituent assembly , as specified in a peace deal between the government and former Maoist rebels .
The chief election commissioner , Bhoj Raj Pokharel , said Friday he has asked the government for at least 110 days to prepare for the polls , after necessary election laws are enacted .
Nepal had set June 20 to elect a special body to rewrite the constitution and determine the future political system for the Himalayan country .
The date was announced after the government and the Maoists signed a peace deal late last year , ending a decade-long insurgency .
Under the deal , the Maoists registered their weapons with the United Nations , and confined their fighters to barracks .
The former rebels joined Nepal 's interim government earlier this month .
Angelina Jolie reacts during press conference in Islamabad , Saturday Hollywood movie star and United Nations goodwill ambassador Angelina Jolie is appealing for international help in repatriating millions of Afghan refugees now living in Pakistan .
Ms. Jolie spoke Saturday at the end of her four-day trip to Pakistan - during which she toured refugee camps near the Afghan border .
She told reporters that refugees returning to Afghanistan need jobs and health care .
Ms. Jolie stressed the need to boost development in rural Afghanistan , and called on the world to help shoulder the burden .
During her trip , Ms. Jolie also met Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
Millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan , beginning with the Soviet invasion in 1979 , and continuing through years of civil war and the rule of the Taliban .
More than two million have returned home , but some three million remain in Pakistan .
China has warned that a draft proposal for United Nations Security Council expansion circulated by four countries , including Japan , will " undermine " the U.N. reform process .
Germany , Japan , Brazil and India on Monday circulated a draft resolution calling for enlargement of the U.N. Security Council , which would enable them to get permanent seats in the council .
But a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry , Kong Quan , says the draft will only fuel conflicts and damage the U.N. reform process .
China has repeatedly opposed Japan 's bid for a permanent seat on the Security Council , mainly because of what it calls Tokyo 's failure to address its wartime aggression during World War II .
The text calls for the Security Council to be increased from 15 to 25 members .
A Russian re-supply ship docked at the International Space Station ( ISS ) Saturday , but the commander of the station - Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kotov - was forced to manually control the vehicle because its automatic docking system was not working .
The ship , designated Progress M-05M , docked at the ISS at 10:30 pm Moscow time .
Among the 2.5 tons of supplies carried to the ISS by the Progress are food , water , fuel , equipment , as well as gifts and treats for the station 's multi-national crew .
At present , the ISS has a crew of six .
Three Russians , two Americans , and a Japanese .
Thailand 's military-installed government says it will take over one of the country 's few independent television stations because the station has not paid nearly $ 3 billion in license fees .
Dhipawadee Meksawan , a minister in the office of Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont told reporters Tuesday ITV will be closed Wednesday .
She said broadcasts could resume once legal issues are resolved regarding the station 's transition to new ownership .
ITV is controlled by Shin Corp , the former telecommunications company of deposed Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra .
Mr. Thaksin 's family sold Shin Corp to the Singapore government 's investment company , Temasek , last year in a controversial deal .
The station 's ownership came into question after it lost a long-running legal battle against the Thai government over unpaid annual fees of nearly $ 3 billion .
The U.N. 's special envoy for Burma , Razali Ismail , has hailed the mass release of prisoners in the military-run country .
Malaysia 's official Bernama news agency quoted the Malaysian diplomat Monday as saying an impressive number of political prisoners were released , including a student democracy leader , Min Ko Naing .
Asked to comment on the continued house arrest of democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi , Mr. Razali told Bernama that the Nobel laureate has said she does not want to be released until all other political prisoners have been freed .
On Friday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan welcomed Burma 's announcement that nearly 4,000 prisoners would be released and called for freedom for all political prisoners in that country .
But U.S. Congressman Tom Lantos , ranking Democrat on the House International Relations Committee and co-chairman of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus , warned the releases could just be a cynical ploy .
Well-known U.S. storm forecaster William Gray has predicted an active Atlantic hurricane season .
Gray and his team at Colorado State University say 17 tropical storms can be expected this season , with nine of them becoming hurricanes .
He added that five of the storms will be major hurricanes .
Last week , officials at the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA ) predicted there will be up to 16 named storms .
They said they expect 10 of them to become hurricanes , and that six of them could become major hurricanes .
The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June 1 through November 30 .
NOAA and Gray say the world is in a 20-year cycle that will continue to bring strong storms .
The 2005 storm season was the most destructive in recorded history , with seven major hurricanes , including Katrina , which killed some 1,300 people along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
Pakistan 's Supreme Court is expected to rule within the next few days on President Pervez Musharraf 's suspension of the nation 's chief justice .
The main lawyer representing Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry is due to conclude his arguments on Friday .
The 13-member panel hearing the case could issue a judgment as early as Friday afternoon .
General Musharraf removed Chaudhry from his post in March , accusing him of abuse of office .
The suspension has sparked nationwide protests against the government and outrage among Pakistan 's legal community and the political opposition .
The Supreme Court panel will rule on the legality of the suspension and the jurisdiction of a judicial body that is investigating the charges against Chaudhry .
Lawyers representing Chaudhry have accused that investigating panel of bias .
The U.S. military has released more than 400 Iraqi detainees , including five women prisoners whose freedom was demanded by the kidnappers of an American journalist .
But U.S. officials stress the releases had nothing to do with hostage Jill Carroll .
They say a review of their cases determined there was no reason to keep holding the prisoners .
Officials added that they planned to release the women before the abductors made their demands .
Carroll 's abductors had threatened to kill her last week unless all female Iraqi detainees were freed .
There has been no word on her fate , and four Iraqi women remain in custody .
Meanwhile , Iraqi officials say the minister of industry escaped unharmed in a roadside bombing , but the blast killed three of his bodyguards north of Baghdad .
And a U.S. soldier died of wounds he sustained in a Wednesday rocket attack near Ramadi .
Venezuela is repeating its accusation that the United States is using the Dutch islands of Aruba and Curacao , off the Caribbean coast , for a possible military attack against Venezuela .
In a statement Thursday , the Venezuelan government accused the U.S. of working with the Netherlands to prepare an aggression against Venezuela .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez made the same claim earlier this month .
The United States called the allegation " baseless . "
Dutch authorities say U.S. staff have been based in Aruba and Curacao to conduct drug surveillance operations over the Caribbean .
Venezuela also has been at odds with Colombia over an agreement allowing the U.S. to use seven Colombian military bases for anti-drug operations .
President Chavez has called the deal a threat to his country , but the U.S. and Colombia say the agreement does not pertain to other nations .
France 's Sandrine Bailly has claimed her first World Cup win of the season in a women 's 7.5-kilometer biathlon sprint event in Ruhpolding , Germany .
Bailly finished in 24:57.06 with one shooting miss .
Kati Wilhelm of Germany was second , 1.4 seconds back , also with one penalty lap .
Russian Svetlana Ishmouratova was third , 23.6 seconds back with no shooting misses .
Wilhelm retained the overall World Cup lead with 387 points , 49 more than Sweden 's Anna Carin Olofsson .
Ishmouratova is third overall with 328 points .
The competition continues through Sunday .
Biathlon combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting from a variety of positions .
Athletes must ski penalty laps for shooting misses .
Government officials in Nicaragua say the leftist Sandinista opposition party has signed an agreement to support President Enrique Bolanos .
Officials say the agreement calls for lawmakers and the president to reach a consensus over constitutional reforms before they are enacted .
The deal is aimed at ending a political battle between Nicaragua 's legislature and executive branch over reforms passed by the legislature but which President Bolanos has refused to sign into law .
The dispute began when Mr. Bolanos prosecuted his predecessor , Arnoldo Aleman of Nicaragua 's Liberal Party , for corruption .
That prompted the legislature to pass measures designed to change the powers of the president .
Several small bombs exploded in Mexico City early Monday , damaging several buildings but causing no reported injuries .
Authorities say three nearly simultaneous blasts occurred just after midnight .
The explosions damaged the Federal Electoral Tribunal and a bank , and destroyed a portion of the headquarters of Mexico 's former ruling party .
The Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI , dominated Mexican politics for more than 70 years , but is now in opposition .
Mexican news media report that police deactivated a homemade explosive device at a second bank near the offices of the Electoral Tribunal .
So far , there have been no claims of responsibility for the bombs .
Violent attacks similar to today 's bombings have occurred periodically in Mexico , and they are usually attributed to leftist groups .
Targets generally include international banking institutions and other commercial centers .
The Indonesian military is completing the last phase of troop withdrawals from Aceh province Thursday , a key component of a peace accord to end 30 years of conflict with separatist rebels .
More than three-thousand soldiers are to leave from the port city of Lhokseumawe , leaving the agreed upon 23,800 troops and police still in the province .
The peace agreement signed in April calls for the government to withdraw 24,000 troops in return for militants surrendering weapons to international monitors .
The Free Aceh Movement handed over its final installment of weapons last week and formally disbanded its armed wing earlier this week .
Desire on both sides to rebuild Aceh after last December 's devastating tsunami helped move the peace deal forward .
A Lebanese judge has issued formal arrest warrants against four generals suspected of involvement in the February assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The judge 's decision , after two days of interrogations , will allow Lebanese authorities to continue holding the generals , and paves the way for a trial on U.N. allegations they were involved in planning the assassination .
The generals led the country 's security services when Mr. Hariri was killed and were among the most powerful men in Lebanon because of their close alliance with Syria .
Earlier Saturday , Syria invited the chief U.N. investigator , Detlev Mehlis , to visit Damascus Monday or Tuesday , following criticism from Mr. Mehlis that Syria was not cooperating with the investigation .
Many in Lebanon say Syria was behind Mr. Hariri 's assassination , a charge Damascus denies .
Thailand 's Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra says the United Nations needs a major management overhaul if the body is going to be revitalized and reformed .
Speaking Friday at the U.N. summit in New York City , Mr. Thaksin said the organization 's leadership must accept changes , making it stronger , more responsive and more united .
The prime minister said capitalism is the best opportunity for lifting people out of poverty , but free competition must also remain fair .
He says alleviating poverty in Asia , Latin America and Africa will help reduce injustice , conflict , radicalism and terrorism .
Chinese state media say a flood in a coal mine in northeastern China has killed 22 miners .
The Xinhua news agency reports Sunday that seven other miners are missing .
The accident took place Saturday night at a state-owned mine in Fushan , an industrial city in Liaoning province .
Rescue operations are under way .
Xinhua says the mine is considered one of the 45 most dangerous coal mines the country .
China 's mining industry is one of the most dangerous in the world .
Last year , nearly 5,000 people died in accidents , an average of 13 deaths a day .
The island , with its fine natural harbor at Castries , was contested between England and France throughout the 17th and early 18th centuries ( changing possession 14 times ) ; it was finally ceded to the UK in 1814 .
Even after the abolition of slavery on its plantations in 1834 , Saint Lucia remained an agricultural island , dedicated to producing tropical commodity crops .
Self-government was granted in 1967 and independence in 1979 .
An obscure Russian firm has bought a key part of oil giant Yukos for $ 9.3 billion .
Baikalfinansgroup outbid gas conglomerate Gazprom in Moscow 's forced auction of Yukos ' main production unit , Yuganskneftegaz .
It is not known if the winning bidder is linked to state-controlled Gazprom , or if it represents private investors .
Foreign investors in Yukos tried to block the sale in U.S. court .
But Russia ignored the American ruling and proceeded with the auction aimed at paying-off some of the more than $ 27 billion Yukos owes in back taxes .
The company 's legal troubles are widely seen as a government move against former Yukos head Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who supported political opponents of Russian President Vladimir Putin .
The oil tycoon is currently in jail in Russia , awaiting trial on fraud and tax evasion charges .
Scientists say the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that devastated the Chilean city of Concepcion shifted it more than three meters to the west .
Researchers from several universities in the United States also say the February 27th quake was so powerful it moved the capital of Santiago about 27 centimeters to the west-southwest .
Even the Argentinian capital of Buenos Aires , located more than 1,400 kilometers east of Santiago , shifted more than two centimeters to the west .
The researchers compared data taken by global positioning satellites before and after the earthquake to reach their conclusions .
The Chilean government says about 452 people were killed by the quake .
Wheat futures shot up this week to near the all-time high ( $ 11.6975 a bushel ) as foreign buyers scrambled to lock in supplies .
A combination of bad weather , increasing global demand and export slowdowns in wheat producing countries has more than doubled the price of wheat since last year .
To make matters worse , growing demand for biofuel crops such as corn means farmers are planting less wheat .
For consumers it is a recipe for higher food prices .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Venezuela was one of three countries that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 ( the others being Ecuador and New Granada , which became Colombia ) .
For most of the first half of the 20th century , Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military strongmen , who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social reforms .
Democratically elected governments have held sway since 1959 .
Hugo CHAVEZ , president since 1999 , seeks to implement his " 21st Century Socialism , " which purports to alleviate social ills while at the same time attacking capitalist globalization and existing democratic institutions .
Current concerns include : a weakening of democratic institutions , political polarization , a politicized military , drug-related violence along the Colombian border , overdependence on the petroleum industry with its price fluctuations , and irresponsible mining operations that are endangering the rain forest and indigenous peoples .
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says U.S. and Iranian officials will meet in Baghdad within days for talks on Iraq 's security situation .
U.S. and Iranian officials met several times in the Iraqi capital last year to discuss efforts to reduce the country 's sectarian violence .
The Baghdad meetings have been one of the few forums in which Washington and Tehran have had direct contact .
Zebari also says he expects Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to visit Iraq next month , in what would be the first such trip by an Iranian leader in years .
Iran has not yet confirmed a date for the visit .
Zebari was speaking Tuesday on a visit to Moscow .
Israeli Army officials have announced the phase-out of military units comprised solely of religious Jews .
Major-General Elazar Stern said Tuesday officials made the decision because they no longer want ideological units in the armed forces .
The plan will be implemented in March .
In the future , students from orthodox seminaries will be deployed into mixed companies .
Major-General Stern acknowledged concern that some soldiers might refuse to participate in the evacuation of settlers under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's Gaza withdrawal plan .
However , he dismissed speculation that the change is related to the planned removal of all 21 settlements in Gaza and four in the West Bank later this year .
Embittered Jewish settlement leaders and others are calling on soldiers to disobey orders to evacuate settlers from land Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War .
Afghan police have killed a suspected Taleban commander during a gunbattle in southern Helmand province .
Officials said Tuesday , that the fighting started Monday when Taleban fighters ambushed a security patrol .
They identified the dead commander as Mullah Kabir .
A second militant was killed in the clash and 12 others were arrested .
Helmand province has been the scene of several clashes in recent weeks .
In late October , at least eight Afghan police were killed in an ambush there .
Meanwhile , in the capital , Kabul , police arrested three men they say were planning a suicide bombing .
Voters in India 's most populous state went to the polls Saturday in the first round of a seven-stage ballot to be spread over the next month .
At stake are 403 seats in the Uttar Pradesh state assembly , with the ruling Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party running even , according to opinion polls .
About 16 million people are eligible to vote in the state , which has a population of 170 million .
Tens of thousands of police were deployed for the election .
Previous votes have seen violent clashes between supporters of rival parties and candidates .
Northern India 's Uttar Pradesh state is among the country 's least developed regions with considerable crime and corruption .
A British risk insurance broker warns the chance of a terrorist attack on London has increased because of upcoming elections and the government 's support for the Iraq war .
The company , Aon , has raised London 's threat level from " guarded " to " elevated . "
This is higher than other western capitals .
The Guardian newspaper , which reported the company 's warning , says Britain 's Secret Service also is concerned about the possibility of terrorist attacks .
According to the Guardian , officials from MI5 have raised their threat assessment level to " severe-general . "
However , the newspaper reports senior anti-terrorist officials say there is nothing to suggest that the threat level should be raised further , despite the general election campaign .
Aon , which caters primarily to corporate clients , has indicated that it has adopted a different set of criteria from MI5 .
The United Nations reportedly has uncovered scores of incidents of alleged sexual misconduct by U.N. troops on peacekeeping duty in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Published accounts in Washington and New York say a confidential U.N. report prepared earlier this year documents 68 cases of rape , prostitution and sexual exploitation of minors in Congo , by peacekeepers from Pakistan , Uruguay , Morocco , Tunisia , South Africa and Nepal .
The report also accuses peacekeepers from Morocco , Pakistan and Nepal of trying to obstruct the investigation into the matter , even going so far as to threaten investigators .
A senior U.S. official in Congo recently was suspended after allegations surfaced that he fraternized with prostitutes at a bar .
Lawyers for former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein say they will continue to boycott his trial on charges of genocide when it resumes Monday in Baghdad .
Lawyer Khalil al-Dulaimi said Sunday the decision was made after the defense team met with Saddam to discuss the trial .
Saddam 's defense team is protesting the ouster of the trial 's first chief judge , and the court 's refusal to allow the lawyers to examine thousands of documents linked to the case .
Saddam and six co-defendants are charged with killing tens of thousands of Iraqi Kurds in the late 1980s .
Last month , the Iraqi government replaced the trial 's chief Judge Abdullah al-Amiri after he angered Kurds by saying Saddam was not a dictator .
He was replaced by Judge Mohammed Oreibi al-Khalifa , who has since presided over the turbulent hearings and repeatedly thrown Saddam out of court .
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter says Ethiopia 's disputed parliamentary elections were a significant advance for democracy , but acknowledged many problems with the vote .
Mr. Carter told reporters in Addis Ababa late Thursday that all political parties should now work together to create a better electoral system .
His organization , the Carter Center , sent election observers to monitor the May 15 elections .
His Thursday statement said the elections introduced a " competitive electoral process " in Ethiopia .
But it noted serious problems with how votes were counted in some regions , saying the process lacked credibility .
Official results showed President Meles Zenawi 's ruling Ethiopian People 's Revolutionary Party and allies won a majority in parliament .
Opposition parties have rejected the results and threaten to boycott the legislature .
Charles Taylor The newly appointed prosecutor for Sierra Leone 's special tribunal has pledged to bring former Liberian leader Charles Taylor to trial on war crimes charges .
Calling Taylor a " monster of evil , " Desmond de Silva also renewed a call for Nigeria to turn the exiled former president over to the United Nations-backed court .
Mr. Taylor has been indicted on charges that he backed Sierra Leone 's notoriously brutal rebel movement in exchange for diamonds .
Mr. De Silva will officially take over as the tribunal 's lead prosecutor when David Crane leaves the post in July .
The war crimes court was set up to try those most responsible for human rights abuses committed during Sierra Leone 's decade-long civil war .
The NATO secretary-general called for greater engagement in Afghanistan , saying the war there is the most complex challenge the alliance has ever undertaken .
Speaking ahead of a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Slovakia Thursday , Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the alliance must remain committed to bringing stability to Afghanistan .
Noting the reservations some NATO members have about heightening engagement in Afghanistan , Rasmussen said " the cost of inaction would be far higher . "
U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates is expected to brief the conference on America 's review of its war strategy .
U.S. President Barack Obama is considering a new strategy in Afghanistan , including a request from the top U.S. general in the country , Stanley McChrystal , for tens of thousands more troops .
NATO ministers meeting for two days of talks in Bratislava also are expected to discuss the United States ' revamped plans for a missile defense system for Europe .
The Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil sector , which contribute about 95 % of export earnings , 25 % of GDP , and 80 % of government revenue .
The weakness in world hydrocarbon prices in 2009 reduced Libyan government tax income and constrained economic growth .
Substantial revenues from the energy sector coupled with a small population give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa , but little of this income flows down to the lower orders of society .
Libyan officials in the past five years have made progress on economic reforms as part of a broader campaign to reintegrate the country into the international fold .
This effort picked up steam after UN sanctions were lifted in September 2003 and as Libya announced in December 2003 that it would abandon programs to build weapons of mass destruction .
The process of lifting US unilateral sanctions began in the spring of 2004 ; all sanctions were removed by June 2006 , helping Libya attract greater foreign direct investment , especially in the energy sector .
Libyan oil and gas licensing rounds continue to draw high international interest ; the National Oil Corporation ( NOC ) set a goal of nearly doubling oil production to 3 million bbl/day by 2012 .
In November 2009 , the NOC announced that that target may slip to as late as 2017 .
Libya faces a long road ahead in liberalizing the socialist-oriented economy , but initial steps - including applying for WTO membership , reducing some subsidies , and announcing plans for privatization - are laying the groundwork for a transition to a more market-based economy .
The non-oil manufacturing and construction sectors , which account for more than 20 % of GDP , have expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include the production of petrochemicals , iron , steel , and aluminum .
Climatic conditions and poor soils severely limit agricultural output , and Libya imports about 75 % of its food .
Libya 's primary agricultural water source remains the Great Manmade River Project , but significant resources are being invested in desalinization research to meet growing water demands .
The wife of Serbian war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic is facing criminal charges for illegal weapons possession .
Mladic family lawyer Milos Saljic said Tuesday that Bosiljka Mladic was taken to a court in Belgrade Tuesday .
She was questioned by a judge about an automatic gun , a hunting rifle and several pistols discovered in the Mladic family home in 2008 .
Mladic is charged with genocide for helping to carry out the 1995 Srebrenica massacre of about 8,000 Muslim men and for masterminding the siege of Sarajevo .
The 68-year-old Mladic has not been seen for several years .
Mladic 's family asked Serbian authorities last month to declare him officially dead .
However , Serbian war crimes prosecutors dismissed speculation that Mladic is dead , and said the effort to find him will continue .
In 1783 , the Sunni Al-Khalifa family captured Bahrain from the Persians .
In order to secure these holdings , it entered into a series of treaties with the UK during the 19th century that made Bahrain a British protectorate .
The archipelago attained its independence in 1971 .
Facing declining oil reserves , Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining and has transformed itself into an international banking center .
Bahrain 's small size and central location among Persian Gulf countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in foreign affairs among its larger neighbors .
In addition , the Sunni-led government has struggled to manage relations with its approximately 70 % Shia-majority population .
During the mid-to-late 1990s Shia activists mounted a low-intensity uprising to demand that the Sunni-led government stop systemic economic , social , and political discrimination against Shia Bahrainis .
King HAMAD bin Isa Al-Khalifa , after succeeding his late father in 1999 , pushed economic and political reforms in part to improve relations with the Shia community .
After boycotting the country 's first round of democratic elections under the newly-promulgated constitution in 2002 , Shia political societies participated in 2006 and 2010 in legislative and municipal elections and Wafiq , the largest Shia political society , won the largest bloc of seats in the elected lower-house of the legislature both times .
Nevertheless , Shia discontent persisted , often manifesting itself in street demonstrations and occasional low-level violence .
U.S. officials say the son of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met briefly with President Bush at the White House last week .
National Security Council spokesman Frederick Jones said Tuesday , that Gamal Mubarak was meeting with national security adviser Stephen Hadley when Mr. Bush stopped in .
Jones says Mr. Bush extended his wishes to President Mubarak .
Gamal , considered the presumed political heir to his father , also met with Vice President Dick Cheney .
The previously unannounced meetings came as the United States voiced concern over Egypt 's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators and a U.S. government report questioned the effectiveness of U.S. aid to Egypt .
Burma 's foreign minister says his government will not be swayed by pressure to give up its turn at leading the Association of Southeast Asian Nations next year .
Nyan Win , in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta for an Asian-African summit , told reporters Thursday that the decision is Burma 's to make .
Western nations have said Burma should not be allowed to chair ASEAN , which includes hosting its annual summit , because of its poor human rights record and delays in adopting democratic reforms .
Meanwhile , Thai foreign minister Kantathi Suphamongkhon told reporters he feels the issue will be resolved in what he called " a very good way , " because , he said , Burma had assured other ASEAN members that the unity of the organization is a priority .
Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki has declared the food shortages ravaging the country a national disaster .
Mr. Kibaki made the announcement Sunday during a New Year 's Day speech .
He says nearly 2.5 million people will need food aid , which he estimates will cost more than $ 150 million .
At least 20 people and thousands of livestock have died as a result of a drought and famine .
Officials say thousands of prisoners planned to skip their annual New Year 's lunch so the food could go to those affected by the famine .
The United States says it will send helicopters and planes full of supplies to Pakistan as part of the effort to save people affected by Saturday 's devastating earthquake .
The U.S. embassy in Islamabad said Sunday that eight U.S. military helicopters will bring emergency relief to quake areas .
It says two C-130 aircraft will transport blankets , winterized tents , and other supplies .
The military also plans to charter commercial aircraft to bring in plastic sheeting , blankets , and water containers .
President Bush promised U.S. aid on Saturday , while offering Americans ' deepest sympathies for the loss of life .
The president considers Pakistan a key ally in the U.S.-led war on terror .
Pakistan was one of many countries that offered assistance to help the United States deal with Hurricane Katrina .
The Palestinian group Hamas has urged militants in the Gaza Strip to stop firing rockets at border crossings with Israel , so the flow of basic goods will not be disrupted during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Hamas said an end to rocket attacks on the posts would also add to the security and stability of the territory .
Crossings between Israel and Gaza have been largely closed since Hamas took control of the territory in June .
But Israel allows aid groups to use some crossings to bring in food , medicine and other supplies .
In other developments Thursday , witnesses say an Israeli airstrike wounded at least one Islamic Jihad militant in Gaza 's Jebaliya refugee camp .
Islamic Jihad was involved in Tuesday 's rocket attack that wounded about 40 Israeli soldiers at a base near Gaza .
The European Union has discussed with Ankara some of its requirements for beginning membership negotiations with Turkey .
The European Affairs Minister of the Netherlands , Atzo Nicolai , discussed the proposed conditions with Turkey 's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul Tuesday in Ankara .
The conditions are featured in a draft final statement for next week 's EU summit , where EU leaders will decide whether to begin membership talks and under what conditions .
A Dutch government official told VOA that Turkey would have to show it is implementing six laws on judicial issues , including a ban on torture , before membership talks can begin .
The official also said the European Union expects Ankara to recognize the government of the divided island of Cyprus before the talks can start .
Turkey currently recognizes the northern Turkish-dominated part of the island .
Scientific undertakings rather than commercial pursuits are the predominate human activity in Antarctica .
Fishing off the coast and tourism , both based abroad , account for Antarctica 's limited economic activity .
Antarctic fisheries , targeting three main species - Patagonian and Antarctic toothfish ( Dissostichus eleginoides and D. mawsoni ) , mackerel icefish ( Champsocephalus gunnari ) , and krill ( Euphausia superba ) - reported landing 141,147 metric tons in 2008 - 09 ( 1 July - 30 June ) .
( Estimated fishing is from the area covered by the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources ( CCAMLR ) , which extends slightly beyond the Antarctic Treaty area . )
Unregulated fishing , particularly of Patagonian toothfish ( also known as Chilean sea bass ) , is a serious problem .
The CCAMLR determines the recommended catch limits for marine species .
A total of 37,858 tourists visited the Antarctic Treaty area in the 2008 - 09 Antarctic summer , down from the 46,265 visitors in 2007 - 2008 ( estimates provided to the Antarctic Treaty by the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators ( IAATO ) ; this does not include passengers on overflights ) .
Nearly all of them were passengers on commercial ( nongovernmental ) ships and several yachts that make trips during the summer .
A news report says the Bush administration may seek a U.N. resolution allowing countries to intercept shipments to or from North Korea if they are believed to contain nuclear materials or components .
The New York Times says the U.S. proposal would amount to a quarantine of North Korea , although administration officials are not using that word .
In its editions Monday , The newspaper cites several American and Asian officials as saying the main purpose of the move would be to give China political cover to police its border with North Korea .
The Chinese-North Korean border reportedly is now largely open to shipments of arms , drugs and counterfeit currency - North Korea 's main source of hard currency .
Saddam Hussein 's legal defense team has called for a halt to his genocide trial , accusing the Iraqi court of bias against the former president .
In a written statement released Thursday , the lawyers called on the Iraqi public to reject the trial , which they described as a " farce . "
The statement did not say if the lawyers would return to court after walking out Monday to protest alleged violations of judicial procedure .
The trial is adjourned until October 9 to allow the defendants to either talk with their boycotting attorneys , or find a new defense team .
Earlier this month , the Iraqi government replaced the original chief judge , Abdullah al-Amiri , with his deputy , Mohammed Oreibi al-Khalifa , after the judge said Saddam was not a dictator .
Saddam and six co-defendants are charged with killing tens of thousands of Iraqi Kurds in the late 1980s .
Condoleezza Rice
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrives in Brazil Tuesday , at the start of a five-day , four-nation trip to Latin America focusing on economic and political issues .
Secretary Rice says the twin challenge in Latin America is to promote democracy and help alleviate poverty .
Ms. Rice will also travel to Colombia , Chile and El Salvador .
Her diplomatic trip coincides with political turmoil in Ecuador , continuing civil war in Colombia , and increasingly confrontational comments from Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez .
Ms. Rice has indicated she will raise concerns during her trip about Venezuela and its status in the region .
On Sunday , the Venezuelan leader said he is ending 35 years of military cooperation with the United States , accusing U.S. military advisors of encouraging rebellion .
Officials in eastern Sudan say clashes between police and demonstrators have left at least 14 people dead .
Witnesses say members of the Beja tribal group were marching to the governor 's office in the eastern city of Port Sudan Saturday when the violence began .
Officials from the Beja tribe say security forces shot at the demonstrators .
They put the death toll at 23 .
Police say the protesters were looting and vandalizing buildings .
They have imposed a curfew on the town .
Earlier this week , Beja tribes people presented a list of demands to the local government , including a call for a fairer distribution of wealth and power in the region .
Their demands are similar to those that sparked separate violence in Sudan 's western and southern regions .
A southern peace deal was reached earlier this year , but violence continues in Darfur .
Scientists have reportedly concluded that traces of highly-enriched uranium found in Iran two years ago were from imported equipment rather than Iranian nuclear activities .
The findings , reported by the Washington Post and the Associated Press , appear to support Iran 's claim that the bomb-grade uranium entered the country together with the centrifuge parts provided by Pakistan .
The Bush administration has cited the material as evidence that Iran is trying to produce highly enriched uranium needed for nuclear weapons .
The European Union has been negotiating with Iran to halt uranium conversion that can lead to high-grade nuclear fuel for atomic weaponry .
However , the Europeans canceled further talks set for August 31 , after Tehran resumed uranium conversion activities earlier this month .
IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei is due to issue a formal report on Iran 's nuclear activities September 3 .
The Argentine Senate has narrowly rejected a controversial grain export tax increase that has sparked a deep political crisis in the country .
After 17 hours of debate , the decision came down to Vice President Julio Cobos , who broke a 36-36 tie by casting his vote against the measure early Thursday .
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner introduced the tax in March , a move that divided the country , triggered farm strikes and interrupted agricultural exports .
Earlier this month , the lower house of Congress approved the grain export taxes that farmers bitterly opposed .
President Fernandez had asked Congress to debate the measure in an effort to defuse tension over the issue .
Ms. Fernandez defended the increase saying the money would have been used to help the poor .
The Moscow City Court has opened preliminary hearings on the 2004 killing of American journalist Paul Klebnikov .
Court officials say Tuesday 's proceedings are closed to the public and focus on whether the case will be considered by a jury or a judge .
Russian authorities say Mr. Klebnikov , who was editor of the Russian edition of the U.S. financial magazine Forbes , was killed by ethnic Chechens .
They say the men killed him on orders from another ethnic Chechen .
Russian investigators believe the shooting may be connected to Mr. Klebnikov 's writings .
State Department spokesman Adam Ereli said Monday the United States expects all those implicated in the killing to be tried and punished appropriately .
He says Russia 's handling of the case will send a message that those who threaten journalists will be held accountable .
The U.S. Army says it has reviewed an American soldier 's videotape from Iraq that appears to show troops kicking a wounded and bound Iraqi prisoner , and concluded that such behavior was inappropriate but not criminal .
The internal military report about the videotape was part of a massive release of 1,200 pages of documents following a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union .
The military says its investigation of the videotape did not result in any new abuse charges , in part because the video apparently has been destroyed .
A spokesman said , " The Army continues to investigate and hold people accountable when appropriate .
Nearly 110 American soldiers are said to have been disciplined for their actions in Iraq .
Pakistani officials say 18 people were killed and 40 others injured when a truck carrying chemicals exploded Monday in the southern city of Hyderabad .
Several nearby shops were destroyed by the blast , which authorities described as an accident caused by a buildup of chemicals in the truck 's storage tank .
In Pakistan 's northwest , military officials said four soldiers were killed by militants who attacked an army convoy in the Bajaur tribal region .
A government official said three militants were killed in the gunfight .
Sunday , Reporters Without Borders said separatist gunmen murdered a local newspaper reporter as he drove in his car in Baluchistan province .
The Paris-based media rights group says he was the sixth media worker to be killed this year in Pakistan , which it calls the world 's most dangerous country for journalists .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says he believes voters will approve the country 's new constitution in a nationwide referendum next month .
At a news conference Friday at the Voice of America in Washington , Mr. Talabani said he did not think Sunni Arab objections would prevent the document 's approval .
But if it is rejected , he said elections would be held for a new national assembly , which would then draft a new document .
He repeated his support for a federated Iraq , saying it would strengthen the country , not divide it as some Sunni Arabs fear .
He also rejected suggestions that Iraq could spiral into a civil war .
Mr. Talabani said he hoped Iraqi security forces and police could be sufficiently rebuilt within one year to allow for U.S. and coalition forces to begin leaving the country .
The U.S. Justice Department has issued a new memo on prisoner interrogation , replacing a controversial document outlining how to question prisoners without violating U.S. and international anti-torture statutes .
The opening sentence of the memo released Friday says " torture is abhorrent both to American laws and values , and to international norms . "
The document replaces a controversial memo issued in August , 2002 , which defined torture in such a way that critics said only the most severe types of interrogation techniques would not be permissible .
That memo became controversial after several cases of prisoner mistreatment in Iraq and Guantanamo Bay , Cuba became public .
The new document contains a broader definition of torture , describing it as " any act by which severe pain or suffering , whether physical or mental " is inflicted on a person to get information or a confession .
Sudan has accused Chad of assisting Darfur rebels in their fight against the government .
Chad 's foreign ministry rejected the claims Thursday .
It says Sudan 's allegations are unfriendly because Chad has contributed to the peaceful resolution of the Darfur crisis through its mediation with the African Union .
Sudan 's accusations come less than a week after Chad accused Khartoum of using Chadian army deserters to fight a small rebel group in Darfur .
Hundreds of thousands of refugees from Darfur have fled into Chad since the Sudanese conflict erupted more than two years ago .
Lawyers and computers have both been proliferating since 1970 .
Unfortunately , lawyers , unlike computers , have not gotten twice as smart and half as expensive every 18 months .
Rwanda has withdrawn a public threat to send troops into eastern Democratic Republic of Congo , where Congolese troops have been fighting dissident soldiers .
Rwandan President Paul Kagame had threatened to send soldiers across the border to fight Hutu militias blamed for attacks on Rwanda .
The Congolese government sent extra troops to eastern Congo in response to the threat , angering dissidents in the Congolese army who the Kinshasa government says are backed by Rwanda .
Fighting broke out last week , forcing at least 100,000 people to flee their homes .
Rwandan leaders now say disarming Hutu rebels in Congo is a job for the international community .
Rwanda blames Hutu militias for the 1994 genocide of about 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will be sworn in for a second consecutive term Friday , following his Congress party 's surprisingly decisive victory in national elections .
Congress party lawmakers formally elected Singh to return as the prime minister on Tuesday .
The party is in the process of forming a new government .
Party leaders say the priorities include the plight of the poor , India 's security and promoting tolerance between Hindus and Muslims .
Mr. Singh is in a more commanding position since the ruling party has decided not to include communists in its coalition .
This will give it more flexibility in pursuing its own domestic and foreign policies .
The ruling Congress Party-led alliance won 261 seats in the 543-member parliament , while its main rival , the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party , only won 159 seats .
The rest went to a number of other small parties .
The U.S. State Department 's annual human rights report , released Tuesday , says some African countries are making progress , while others are regressing or lagging behind .
The report praises Liberia , noting that President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has dismissed some corrupt officials , and that her government is investigating war crimes committing during the country 's civil war .
But the U.S. report has harsh words for Zimbabwe , saying the Mugabe government continues " across-the-board " human rights violations .
The report is even harder on Eritrea 's government , which it says continues to be one of the most repressive in sub-Saharan Africa .
There is especially strong criticism of Sudan .
The report says the Sudanese government and government-backed Janjaweed militia bear responsibility for what the U.S. calls the genocide in Darfur .
Supporters and critics of Russia 's president are demonstrating in Moscow , with both groups calling attention to Kremlin plans to consolidate power .
Hundreds of prominent critics of President Vladimir Putin 's denounced the legislation as a step back for democracy and an increase in authoritarian rule .
State-run media reported another rally elsewhere in Moscow of 15,000 Putin supporters .
The rallies came on Russia 's Constitution Day , as Mr. Putin signed into law a bill letting the president appoint who can run for governor .
Another of the president 's proposals , aimed at scrapping the direct election of national lawmakers , is also expected to win parliamentary approval .
The Kremlin says the changes are needed to bolster security in the wake of the Beslan school terrorist assault .
Hundreds died in the attack , many of them children .
Officials in Somalia say U.S. naval warships have bombarded a remote coastal village where suspected Islamist insurgents had set up a base .
The attack happened Friday night when a Navy destroyer opened fire around the village of Bargal , located in northern Somalia 's semi-autonomous region of Puntland .
Officials say the extremists arrived in Bargal earlier this week , then fought with troops from the region .
A U.S. Department of Defense spokesman would not confirm or deny the report .
He would only say the United States remains committed to reducing terrorist capabilities when it finds them .
CNN International reported Friday that the ships fired on a suspected al-Qaida operative suspected of being involved in the simultaneous bomb attacks on the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998 .
The U.S. carried out airstrikes earlier this year in southern Somalia targeting suspected al-Qaida operatives .
The Gulf Arab state of Qatar says it will donate $ 50 million to the Hamas-led Palestinian government , which is in a financial crisis .
The contribution announced Monday in Doha comes after the United States and European Union cut off financial support to the Hamas-led Palestinian government until Hamas renounces violence and recognizes Israel .
On Sunday , Iran said it would contribute $ 50 million to the Palestinian Authority .
Since taking office last month , Hamas has come under diplomatic and economic pressure from Israel and Western governments , which consider Hamas a terrorist organization .
Israel is withholding about $ 50 million in monthly tax revenues it collects for the Palestinian Authority .
This week , the Voice of America reported from Beijing on an alleged study regarding childhood deaths in China related to indoor air pollution .
Chinese state media , citing the alleged study , had reported that more than two million Chinese children die each year from health problems related to indoor air pollution .
The VOA report , issued ( broadcast ) on Monday , said the study results were released by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention , or CDC .
On Tuesday , Chinese media quoted officials from the CDC as saying the reports were wrong , and that the CDC had released no such statistics .
First of America Bank Corp. said it completed its acquisition of Midwest Financial Group Inc. for about $ 250 million .
First of America , which now has 45 banks and $ 12.5 billion in assets , announced an agreement to acquire the Peoria , Ill. , bank holding company in January .
Midwest Financial has $ 2.3 billion in assets and eight banks .
The Midwest Financial subsidiary banks will continue to operate under their current names until early 1990 , when each will adopt the First of America name .
Kalamazoo , Mich.-based First of America said it will eliminate the 13 management positions of the former Midwest Financial parent company .
First of America said some of the managers will take other jobs with First of America .
But it said that severance payments to those executives not staying with the company will reduce First of America 's operating results for 1989 by $ 3 million to $ 4 million , or 15 cents to 20 cents a share .
A White House spokesman says President Bush disapproves of what a leading Christian broadcaster said about Israeli leader Ariel Sharon .
Television evangelist Pat Robertson suggested Thursday that Mr. Sharon suffered a massive stroke because the prime minister defied , what he termed , the will of God by dividing Israel .
Mr. Bush 's spokesman said the president views those remarks as wholly inappropriate and offensive .
Mr. Robertson hosts the popular 700 Club religious show and has been one of Mr. Bush 's strongest supporters among Christian conservatives .
But the relationship has been strained by several of Mr. Robertson 's recent comments , among them a suggestion that the United States assassinate Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez .
President Bush used his weekly radio address Saturday to highlight Pakistan 's efforts to combat Islamist militants .
Mr. Bush cited a recent report released by his administration that says al-Qaida has established a safe haven in the tribal areas of Pakistan bordering Afghanistan .
He said Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf agreed to give tribal leaders more responsibility for policing their areas , but their efforts were unsuccessful .
Last Sunday , pro-Taleban militants broke the agreement .
Mr. Bush said the Pakistani president is taking active steps to go after radicals .
He noted Mr. Musharraf 's decision to send Pakistani troops to raid an extremist Mosque in Islamabad .
That raid has triggered a wave of militant attacks across the country that has killed more than 160 people .
Mr. Bush 's remarks were taped before the president underwent a medical procedure requiring him to temporarily hand over power to Vice President Dick Cheney .
A record-breaking heat wave over southeastern Europe and parts of the Middle East is expected to continue , closing out what experts say will be the hottest June ever recorded in the region .
Temperatures reached a stifling 46 degrees Celsius Monday in Athens , forcing government offices to close .
Greek authorities say the heat killed two elderly women while another death was reported on Cyprus .
Romanian authorities say the heat has killed 25 people .
Elsewhere , British authorities issued warnings across much of the country Monday , where flash floods killed three people in northern England .
The bad weather forced a delay in the Wimbledon tennis tournament in London .
Alberto Gonzales President Bush 's attorney general , the head of the U.S. Justice Department , has arrived in Baghdad on a surprise visit to show support for the Iraqi government .
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has been surrounded by heavy security in the Iraqi capital as he visits with American soldiers and Iraqi officials .
Reporters who traveled with Mr. Gonzales to Baghdad say he intended this trip , on the eve of the U.S. Independence Day holiday , to show support for the Iraqi government 's commitment to democracy despite continuing deadly attacks by insurgents .
The Republic of Congo celebrated 50 years of independence Sunday with a parade and ceremony in the capital , Brazzaville .
Longtime President Denis Sassou N'Guesso watched the ceremony along with more than a dozen African heads of state , as well as a representative from former colonial power France .
The president kicked off the anniversary with a national address Friday night , in which he said he would increase the minimum salary for all civil servants by 25 percent and offer free maternity care .
The news was welcomed in Congo , where despite large oil reserves and a wealth of other natural resources , more than half the population of some four million lives below the poverty line .
ON A SUMMER DAY , when the great heat induced a general thirst among the beasts , a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a small well to drink .
They fiercely disputed which of them should drink first , and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal combat .
When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a fiercer renewal of the fight , they saw some Vultures waiting in the distance to feast on the one that should fall first .
They at once made up their quarrel , saying , " It is better for us to make friends , than to become the food of Crows or Vultures . "
The U.S military in Iraq says coalition forces have captured five suspected so-called special group criminals , including a suspected financier of Iranian-sponsored insurgents .
The military issued a statement saying coalition forces staged the raid early Friday , in the Admhaiyah section of Baghdad , about three kilometers northwest of Sadr City .
The special groups designation is used by the military to describe Shi'ite insurgents backed by Iran .
In other news , Kuwait 's official news agency reports the country has named former military chief of staff Ali al-Momen as its first ambassador to Baghdad since the 1991 Gulf War .
The United States has been urging Sunni-ruled Arab states to establish high-level diplomatic representation to the Shi'ite-led government in Baghdad .
Kuwait 's decision comes shortly after the United Arab Emirates and Jordan named their own ambassadors to Iraq .
Bahrain also has announced plans to appoint an envoy .
A Lion had come to the end of his days and lay sick unto death at the mouth of his cave , gasping for breath .
The animals , his subjects , came round him and drew nearer as he grew more and more helpless .
When they saw him on the point of death they thought to themselves : " Now is the time to pay off old grudges . "
So the Boar came up and drove at him with his tusks ; then a Bull gored him with his horns ; still the Lion lay helpless before them : so the Ass , feeling quite safe from danger , came up , and turning his tail to the Lion kicked up his heels into his face .
" This is a double death , " growled the Lion .
Only cowards insult dying majesty .
Witnesses say Burmese authorities arrested nine members of an opposition political group Tuesday , as they held a protest in Rangoon calling for the release of democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The witnesses say the nine members of her National League for Democracy 's youth wing were arrested by police as they marched on the country 's old parliament building .
The protesters were holding a banner calling for Aung San Suu Kyi 's release from house arrest .
Aung San Suu Kyi has been held under house arrest in Rangoon for 13 of the last 19 years .
Her party won a landslide victory in 1990 elections , but the military , which has ruled the country since 1962 , never allowed it to take power .
The World Food Organization says several provinces in western and northern China are facing food shortages because of a long drought .
The FAO said Monday that it estimates five million hectares of winter crops were lost because of the lack of rain in provinces such as Yunnan , Gansu , Ningxia , Inner Mongolia , and Hebei .
The organization said more than 60 percent of winter wheat crops were lost in the worst-hit districts .
It also said the affected areas are among China 's poorest regions , with more than half the rural population living under the poverty line with limited access to food .
The FAO says the drought has a particularly serious impact on mountain areas , where there are few alternative sources of income .
The radiation belts surrounding the earth were discovered almost simultaneously by VanAllen and another scientist named Fan .
VanAllen published first , or else the earth would have a Fan Belt .
The European Union Tuesday approved extra aid to farmers hit by a serious slump in poultry sales caused by scares from the bird flu crisis .
EU agriculture ministers , meeting in Luxembourg , approved the measure .
Under the plan , national governments will present compensation claims to the European Commission , which will decide whether to co-finance them .
The European Union will pick up half the cost to help countries that can prove damage due to falling demand .
Italy has already reported at least a 50 percent drop in poultry sales , one of the largest drops according to EU data .
The EU agriculture Commissioner , Mariann Fischer Boel , says the most sensible approach would be to compensate farmers for measures which temporarily reduce production .
The Serbian government says a retired top Bosnian Serb general will surrender voluntarily to the U.N. 's war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia .
The government says General Milan Gvero , who was a close aide of wanted commander General Ratko Mladic , agreed in recent talks with Serbia 's justice minister to surrender Thursday .
The United Nations tribunal has accused the former general of war crimes , but released no details of the charges .
Serbia and Montenegro have been pressured by Western nations to turn over over war crimes suspects .
United Nations war crimes prosecutors have accused Serbian authorities of not cooperating with the tribunal .
You should never marry a tennis player , because to them love means nothing
Turkish officials say seven police officers have been wounded in a shootout during a raid on members of a far-left militant group in Istanbul .
Officials say militants threw explosive devices at police Monday as they moved in on an apartment block .
Two civilians , including a cameraman , were struck by stray bullets .
Thick smoke filled the air as helicopters flew over the area .
Police say they detained at least 10 suspects during overnight raids in more than 60 areas .
The raids come days before May Day , which parliament reinstated as a public holiday last week .
The date had been removed from Turkey 's calendar of national holidays after a military coup in 1980 .
The coup came at a time of severe political tensions and street violence between left- and right-wing activists .
A major symbol of Poland 's thriving pre-World War II Jewish community has been restored with the re-opening of the famed Lublin synagogue .
Poland 's Chief Rabbi Michael Schudrich led hundreds of Jews Sunday in a joyful procession carrying the sacred religious scrolls into the building for the first time since the Nazi occupation .
Jewish leaders noted that this is the first time that Lublin 's tiny Jewish community took on a major restoration project without any donations from abroad .
The synagogue is part of what once was the world 's most famous rabinnical school .
Nazis shut down the school after the 1939 invasion .
The communist government later turned it into a medical college .
Before World War II about 40,000 Jews lived in Lublin .
Most were killed by the Nazis .
Uzbekistan has rejected a call from NATO 's inter-parliamentary assembly for an international inquiry into recent violence in Andijan , but said foreign diplomats can monitor its own probe .
Uzbek Foreign Minister Elyor Ganiyev proposed setting up a group of representatives of foreign embassies in Tashkent that would monitor the probe .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer asked for the investigation after allegations that Uzbek troops used excessive force against unarmed civilians .
NATO parliamentarians urged member states to halt support for Uzbek armed forces unless a probe was conducted .
Witnesses and Uzbek opposition groups say as many as 1,000 people were killed in the crackdown .
The government put the death toll at 173 .
From Liverpool to lattes : Sir Paul McCartney has become the first artist to sign with Starbucks ' new record label , Hear Music .
Chairman Howard Schultz announced the news March 21 at the coffee company 's annual meeting in Seattle , Washington .
The 64-year-old ex-Beatle appeared via satellite from London , saying the move reflected the changing nature of music marketing .
Current U.S. album sales are down almost 17 percent from last year , in the face of competition from Internet piracy and competing media .
McCartney , currently enduring a bitter divorce from Heather Mills , said he hopes to release the still-untitled album in early June .
Starbucks is the world 's largest specialty coffee retailer .
The chain has already struck successful marketing deals with other musical acts , while also selling books and developing a feature-length film .
Hear Music releases will be sold through Starbucks stores and other music retailers .
Eritrea 's President Isaias Afeworki has rejected a call from Ethiopia 's government to begin talks on a border dispute that sparked a two-year war in 1998 .
In a statement Tuesday , Mr. Isaias said Ethiopia 's latest offer contains nothing new and would only drag the peace process backward .
He also said Eritrea will accept no alternative to a 2002 ruling by an independent commission on the border dispute .
Last month , Ethiopia 's Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said his government had accepted the ruling " in principle , " after opposing it for more than a year .
In 2000 , the two countries agreed to abide by the commission 's decision as part of a peace deal ending the war which killed some 70,000 people .
The U.N. Security Council has renewed trade sanctions on Liberian timber and diamonds , and extended an arms embargo in the West African nation .
The council unanimously adopted a resolution Tuesday that extends bans on Liberian exports of wood and diamonds for six months and the arms embargo for another year .
The resolution also praised Liberia 's recent elections , saying they were an important step towards lasting peace in the war-torn nation .
The Security Council called on new President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf to reform the nation 's existing forestry and logging operations and consider independent , outside advice on managing its diamond resources .
The United Nations had originally imposed the sanctions in 2001 and 2003 on the government of former Liberian President Charles Taylor .
It was believed Mr. Taylor was supplying weapons to rebels in neighboring Sierra Leone , where he is wanted on war crimes charges .
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales meets US soldiers at in Baghdad
The head of the U.S. Justice Department has met with Iraq 's prime minister during a surprise trip Baghdad .
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales ' one-day trip was meant as a show of support for the Iraqi government .
In addition to his meeting with Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jafaari and other Iraqi officials , Mr. Gonzales also spoke with American soldiers .
Reporters who traveled with Mr. Gonzales to Baghdad say he made the trip , on the eve of the U.S. Independence Day holiday , to commend the Iraqi government 's commitment to democracy despite continuing deadly attacks by insurgents .
The U.S. military says three al-Qaida terrorists linked to bombings in Baghdad have been arrested .
It says the three are believed to be associated with al-Qaida 's chief bombing coordinator for the Iraqi capital .
The U.S. military says the three surrendered in recent days without a fight after being surrounded by multinational forces .
Meanwhile , Iraqis observed three minutes of silence Wednesday to honor victims of two recent massive suicide bombings .
But the attacks continued , with a suicide bomber killing 10 people in Baghdad .
On the political front , several Sunni members of the committee drafting Iraq 's new constitution suspended work following the killing of two colleagues Tuesday .
A U.S. State Department spokesman condemned the killings as the work of terrorists trying to prevent democracy from taking root in Iraq .
Pakistani officials say government troops have killed at least 43 militants in an ongoing operation in the northwestern Khyber tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
Authorities say one of the bases of the militant group Lashkar-e-Islam was destroyed in Saturday 's attack .
Pakistan is under intense U.S. pressure to crack down on militants close to the Afghan border .
Khyber is on the main land route through Pakistan into Afghanistan .
NATO officials in Afghanistan say one of their bombs missed its target in eastern Khost province Tuesday and instead killed two civilians and wounded up to 10 others .
A NATO statement says the bomb was meant for a militant hideout but it malfunctioned and missed its target by more than two kilometers .
Also Tuesday , the U.S.-led coalition said a roadside bomb in the east killed three of its soldiers and an Afghan contractor .
Elsewhere , the police chief in southern Uruzgan province , Juma Gul Himat said a coalition airstrike killed at least 15 militants .
The violence came on the anniversary of Afghanistan 's first known suicide attack against legendary commander Ahmad Shah Massoud on September ninth , 2001 , by al-Qaida operatives .
His death came two days before al-Qaida 's September 11 attacks on the United States .
Kosovo 's ruling coalition says it has agreed on the makeup of a new government , with minor changes to some posts .
The Democratic League of Kosovo says it will keep most ministers in the same positions , but will name Lutfi Haziri as new deputy prime minister .
The government reshuffle follows the resignation of former Prime Minister Bajram Kosumi , after criticism of the performance of his government .
The Kosovo Assembly meets Friday to decide whether to appoint as prime minister General Agim Ceku , who commands the Kosovo Protection Corps - the Serbian province 's civil defense group .
Ceku led the ethic Albanian guerrilla movement , the Kosovo Liberation Army , in the struggle of the late 1990s against Serbian troops and security forces .
He has said he is willing to assume the post .
Serbia accuses him of war crimes against civilians during the fighting .
Pakistan 's deposed chief justice has begun a national campaign to reclaim his post by saying he still considers himself the legal head of his country 's Supreme Court .
Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry was speaking Tuesday to lawyers in his hometown of Quetta , the first stop on a tour of Pakistani cities .
Pakistani authorities released Chaudhry from house arrest last week on the orders of new Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani .
Chaudhry praised the election victory of Mr. Gilani and other opposition leaders in February 's parliamentary vote , saying it has changed Pakistan 's political culture .
He says Pakistani voters rejected what he calls the " one-man rule " of President Pervez Musharraf .
Mr. Musharraf dismissed Chaudhry and dozens of other top judges last November after they refused to recognize his October reelection as president .
Mr. Gilani 's coalition government has promised to reinstate all the deposed judges within 30 days .
Russian officials say President Vladimir Putin will travel to Libya Wednesday at the invitation of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
The talks between the two leaders meeting in the North African country are expected to focus on gas exploration deals with Russia 's natural gas company , Gazprom .
The two-day visit will be one of Mr. Putin 's last foreign trips before he steps down from office next month , when Dmitry Medvedev will replace him .
Mr. Putin is expected to become Russia 's prime minister .
Polling centers in Iraq have closed after a remarkably violence-free day , which allowed millions to turn out to vote in a referendum for the country 's new draft constitution .
Crowds of Iraqis gathered at polling sites long before they opened at 7:00 a.m. , Saturday .
Within three hours of polls opening , more than one-fourth of the nearly three million registered voters in Baghdad had cast ballots in 1,200 polling centers .
An Iraqi policeman , providing security at a polling center in the mostly-Sunni area of Ghazaliyah , says the voting process proceeded better than anyone had expected .
Despite insurgent threats to disrupt the referendum , heavy security kept violence to a minimum on Saturday .
A handful of polling centers came under small arms fire in and around Baghdad , wounding several people .
There were no reported car bombings or suicide attacks .
Russia has authorized the United States to use its airspace for flights carrying troops and military supplies to Afghanistan .
The deal , signed Monday at a U.S.-Russian summit in Moscow , permits up to 4,500 military flights a year - about 12 a day - carrying troops , arms , munitions , military vehicles and spare parts .
Senior U.S. officials say the flights will not be charged Russian transit fees and will not stop in Russian territory .
Moscow had previously limited U.S. shipments across its territory to non-military supplies carried by train .
The White House said the air transit agreement will save more than $ 130 million a year in fuel and other transit costs .
The two presidents also agreed to boost joint anti-terrorism and anti-crime measures , including cooperation in sharing financial intelligence in the fight against heroin trafficking .
A U.S. professor and his wife , accused of spying for Cuba , have pleaded not guilty in federal court .
Carlos and Elsa Alvarez appeared in a Miami , Florida , courtroom Thursday to face charges they spent decades sending information to Cuba about Cuban exiles in the United States .
The couple 's attorneys say they plan to appeal a federal magistrate 's order that they be considered a flight risk and kept in detention until trial .
No trial date has been set .
The Alvarezes were charged January ninth with being agents of a foreign power without registering with the U.S. government .
Prosecutors say they sent information to Cuba using shortwave radio and encryption equipment .
Federal Bureau of Investigation officials say there is no evidence they gave Cuba any classified or military information .
Namibia has a new president .
Hifikepunye Pohamba was sworn in Monday as the country 's second president since gaining independence from apartheid-era South Africa in 1990 .
Mr. Pohamba took the oath of office in front of thousands of people at an outdoor stadium in the capital , Windhoek .
He won 75 percent of the vote in elections last November to succeed Sam Nujoma , who has led Namibia for the past 15 years .
Both men are from the ruling SWAPO , South West Africa People 's Organization , party .
Mr. Pohamba served as lands minister under Mr. Nujoma .
The new president vows to maintain many of his predecessor 's economic policies , and to advance a land reform program which buys farms from white owners and distributes the farms to blacks .
Mr. Pohamba has warned that the country faces revolution if the reforms are not quickly implemented .
Separate roadside bombings have killed 12 Afghan civilians and a Polish soldier in eastern Afghanistan .
The Polish defense ministry says a soldier was killed and five other service members were wounded Friday in Ghazni province .
Elsewhere in Ghazni , NATO says three Afghan construction workers were killed and two others wounded Thursday , when a bomb exploded in the Qarabaugh district .
Later in the day , nine construction workers were killed in a separate roadside bombing in the Bar Kunar district of Kunar province .
Separately , South Korea 's foreign ministry said Friday that Afghan security personnel staged a rocket attack in June on the construction site of South Korea 's civilian base in northern Parwan province .
The attack caused no casualties .
The ministry says it is not clear why Afghan security guards fired rocket-propelled grenades at the site .
The South Korean Yonhap news agency says four guards have been taken into custody .
New York City is known for its restaurants , but one small bakery in the West Village is helping its customers rethink their environmental impact simply by eating its baked goods .
VOA 's Susy Tekunan has the story of this bakery and its quest for environmental sustainability , through car-free deliveries of its products , recycled construction materials in its store , and organic baking materials in its cookies .
Brian Allen narrates .
The blockbuster movie 300 may have conquered U.S. box offices , but it 's no hit in Iran .
Blasting it as an " obvious insult , " state-run television is featuring Iranian film directors to point out its historical inaccuracies .
Focusing on the Greek victory over vastly larger Persian forces at the Battle Of Thermopylae in 480 B.C. , 300 grossed $ 70 million in its first weekend of U.S. release .
The film comes at a time of tension between the United States and Iran over the Middle Eastern nation 's nuclear ambitions .300 has not opened in Iran and likely never will , although one newspaper noted its availability through illegally-copied DVDs .
The head of Russia 's parliamentary commission investigating last year 's bloody Beslan school siege says the crisis could have been prevented if local authorities had followed orders to tighten security .
Alexander Torshin told Russian lawmakers local authorities in North Ossetia , where Beslan is located , failed to carry out instructions given by Russia 's Interior Ministry to strengthen security around educational institutions on the first day of school .
Gunmen demanding a withdrawal of Russian forces from Chechnya held more than a 1,000 hostages for three days .
The stand-off ended in a series of explosions as security forces stormed the building .
More than 330 people , mostly children , were killed .
Tuesday , Russia 's deputy prosecutor-general Nikolai Shepel said security forces acted properly to end the siege .
A committee of Beslan mothers has criticized authorities for using flame-throwers and tanks , which caused the roof to collapse on escaping hostages .
Iraqi police say at least 16 bus passengers were killed by a roadside bomb Tuesday in southern Iraq .
A police spokesman says the bus was traveling from the port city of Basra to Nasariyah .
At least 22 people were wounded in the blast .
No other details were immediately available .
In other news , the U.S. military says a bomb attack Monday killed three American soldiers and their translator in the Iraqi province of Diyala .
In a separate incident , the military said a suspected suicide bomb attack killed five U.S. soldiers on foot patrol in Baghdad .
Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage says he remains optimistic about the recovery of ailing President Fidel Castro , who temporarily stepped aside in July following intestinal surgery .
Lage made the comments on state television Tuesday , saying Mr. Castro continues to recover and that his health is improving .
But he did not say whether Mr. Castro will be well enough to attend upcoming festivities belatedly marking his birthday .
The Cuban leader turned 80 in August , but the festivities were postponed to allow him time to recover .
The official Granma newspaper says the events will begin on November 28 and last through early December .
Mr. Castro temporarily handed power to his younger brother , Defense Minister Raul Castro , due to the operation .
The Cuban leader has appeared only in news videos and photographs since then .
Details of his health remain a state secret .
Rebels in Ivory Coast say they have withdrawn their support for elections scheduled for October 30 .
The rebels reached the decision Thursday after a meeting in their northern stronghold of Bouake .
The French News Agency , AFP , quotes a rebel statement as saying that conditions for a " free , democratic , and transparent vote " can not be guaranteed .
The October elections are meant to help foster the reunification of Ivory Coast , which has been cut in two since a civil war erupted in September 2002 after a failed coup against President Laurent Gbagbo .
Little progress has been made in implementing a series of peace deals between the government and rebels .
Ministers from 21 Asia-Pacific economies will begin meetings later Wednesday in Santiago , Chile , ahead of a summit of leaders from the region later this week .
Officials say today 's meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group will help set the agenda for the leaders ' summit , and are expected to feature discussions on regional trade agreements and general trade policies .
The ministers also are expected to express their support for global trade talks under the auspices of the World Trade Organization .
Other themes expected to be addressed by ministers include anti-terrorism efforts , health concerns , anti-corruption and transparency issues , and maintaining the security of regional financial markets .
President Bush , Chinese President Hu Jintao and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi will be among the leaders attending the APEC summit Saturday and Sunday .
The European Union says Britain , France and Germany are due to hold new talks with Iran Wednesday on Tehran 's nuclear program .
A spokeswoman for EU Foreign Policy chief Javier Solana Monday characterized the upcoming meeting in Vienna as " talks about the talks , " and said they will take place at the political directors ' level .
Separately , Reuters quotes a diplomat as saying the exploratory talks are aimed at determining whether or not to meet again in January .
The Europeans are seeking assurances that Tehran will halt work on its nuclear fuel program , which the United States alleges is secretly aimed at developing an atomic bomb .
Iran denies the charges , and says its program is aimed at developing electricity .
Afghan officials say suspected Taleban gunmen have killed six policemen during a raid on a police post in southern Helmand province .
Authorities said Wednesday that one gunman was killed in a shoot-out with the militants late Tuesday in the Kajaki district .
Taleban militants have carried out a guerrilla insurgency in Afghanistan since U.S.-led forces ousted the Islamic extremist government three years ago .
Rhythm & blues legend James Brown is recovering after undergoing surgery Wednesday for prostate cancer .
The 71-year-old singer and songwriter underwent surgery at a hospital in Atlanta , Georgia , and was later released .
His doctor says the surgery was successful , and expects Mr. Brown to make a full recovery .
Mr. Brown is known by millions of fans as " The Godfather of Soul " thanks to such classic songs as " Please , Please , Please , " " It 's a Man 's World , " and " Papa 's Got a Brand New Bag . "
Mr. Brown will hit the road next month to promote his autobiography , followed by a tour of Australia and Asia .
The United Nations says the underground water aquifer that sustains some 1.5 million Palestinians in the Gaza Strip is " in danger of collapse " following years of overuse and contamination from armed conflict .
U.N. Environment Program researchers said overuse , salt water intrusion , sewage and agricultural runoff as well as hazardous medical waste in Gaza landfills is contributing to the situation .
They said pollution levels in the water are now so bad that Gaza infants are now at risk for nitrate poisoning .
A report published Monday said that residents need an alternate water supply to give the aquifer a chance to rest .
Researchers said unless the trend is reversed now , the damage could take centuries to reverse .
Scientists estimated restoration efforts could take 20 years and cost some $ 1.5 billion .
Permanent legal residents of the United States will be subjected to a fingerprint check when they re-enter the country by land , sea or air .
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security says the new security checks are part of an existing program ( US-VISIT ) that keeps track of visitors as they enter or leave the United States , and screens out criminals and potential terrorists .
The acting director of the program , Robert Mocny , says at least 1,100 criminals have been captured at U.S. ports of entry .
The new fingerprinting rules will affect 11 million to 12 million green-card holders .
It also will apply to Canadians entering the country for an extended period of time , such as workers or students .
The new requirements will take effect late next month .
The UN awarded Eritrea to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a federation .
Ethiopia 's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years later sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991 with Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces ; independence was overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum .
A two-and-a-half-year border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN auspices in December 2000 .
Eritrea hosted a UN peacekeeping operation that monitored a 25 km-wide Temporary Security Zone ( TSZ ) on the border with Ethiopia .
Eritrea 's denial of fuel to the mission caused the UN to withdraw the mission and terminate its mandate 31 July 2008 .
An international commission , organized to resolve the border dispute , posted its findings in 2002 .
However , both parties have been unable to reach agreement on implementing the decision .
On 30 November 2007 , the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission remotely demarcated the border by coordinates and dissolved itself , leaving Ethiopia still occupying several tracts of disputed territory , including the town of Badme .
Eritrea accepted the EEBC 's " virtual demarcation " decision and called on Ethiopia to remove its troops from the TSZ that it states is Eritrean territory .
Ethiopia has not accepted the virtual demarcation decision .
In 2009 the UN imposed sanctions on Eritrea after accusing it of backing anti-Ethiopian Islamist insurgents in Somalia .
Afghan officials say security forces in the southern city of Kandahar have arrested two men carrying explosives .
The officials say the men , believed to be terrorists , were detained hours after unidentified attackers threw a grenade at the Indian consulate in the city 's center Tuesday night .
The grenade exploded outside the complex , causing no casualties .
Also Tuesday , unknown attackers hurled a grenade at the Ministry of Women 's Affairs in the capital , Kabul , but it too blew up outside the compound and there were no injuries .
A police spokesman says no one has claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Maldives was long a sultanate , first under Dutch and then under British protection .
It became a republic in 1968 , three years after independence .
President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM dominated the islands ' political scene for 30 years , elected to six successive terms by single-party referendums .
Following riots in the capital Male in August 2004 , the president and his government pledged to embark upon democratic reforms including a more representative political system and expanded political freedoms .
Progress was sluggish , however , and many promised reforms were slow to be realized .
Nonetheless , political parties were legalized in 2005 .
In June 2008 , a constituent assembly - termed the " Special Majlis " - finalized a new constitution , which was ratified by the president in August .
The first-ever presidential elections under a multi-candidate , multi-party system were held in October 2008 .
GAYOOM was defeated in a runoff poll by Mohamed NASHEED , a political activist who had been jailed several years earlier by the former regime .
Challenges facing President NASHEED include strengthening democracy and combating poverty and drug abuse .
Maldives officials have played a prominent role in the international climate change discussion ( due to the islands ' low elevation and the threat from sea-level rise ) and on the United Nations Human Rights Council .
Uzbekistan , Afghanistan and Iran have agreed to join forces and build a trans-Afghan transport corridor that will give Uzbekistan access to the Persian Gulf .
An Uzbek Foreign Ministry statement says officials from the three countries signed an agreement to set up the Interstate Coordination Council after Wednesday 's talks in Tashkent .
The statement says the document will serve as a legal basis to develop the 2,400-kilometer interstate road , linking the former Soviet republic with Iran 's Gulf coast through Afghanistan .
The Foreign Ministry gave no details on how much the project would cost or when the work will begin .
Kosovo 's Prime Minister Bajram Kosumi has resigned , following intense pressure from his own party .
Mr. Kosumi faced mounting criticism from the ruling coalition , which viewed him as an ineffective leader .
One of several political parties in the province , the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo , has suggested that President Fatmir Sejdiu nominate a former key member of the ethnic Albanian guerrilla movement , the Kosovo Liberation Army , Agim Ceku for the post .
The party says it believes Ceku would be dedicated to the pursuit of an independent Kosovo .
The outgoing prime minister was a key figure in the United Nations-mediated talks on the future of the Serbian province .
Kosovo has been under U.N. administration since 1999 , when NATO airstrikes drove out Serbian security forces after violence against ethnic Albanians .
The region 's ethnic Albanian majority is pressing for independence from Serbia - a demand that Serbs strongly oppose .
Kidnappers who seized an Italian photojournalist in Afghanistan last week are offering to release him in return for an Afghan Christian now living in Italy .
The Afghan man , a convert to Christianity , fled his homeland earlier this year after he was charged with leaving Islam , an offense punishable by death .
He subsequently was granted asylum in Italy .
A hospital in Afghanistan operated by an Italian aid agency ( Emergency ) was contacted this week by the kidnappers , who said they would release their captive if the Afghan Christian ( Abdul Rahman ) is returned to his home country .
Photographer Gabriele Torsello was kidnapped in Helmand province last week .
Authorities there blamed the abduction on the Taleban , but the radical Islamist group denies any involvement in the Italian 's abduction .
Mexican legislators are calling on their Latin American counterparts to join them in opposing a proposed barrier along the U.S.-Mexican border .
Heliodoro Diaz , who presides over Mexico 's House of Representatives , has sent a written request to several regional legislatures as well as to parliaments in Spain and Portugal .
Mr. Diaz says opposing the wall would be " an act of unity among Ibero-American legislatures . "
The U.S. House of Representatives approved a measure earlier this month to construct security fencing along the U.S.-Mexican border in an effort to curb illegal border crossing .
The measure would also reclassify illegal entry into the United States as a crime , instead of a civil offense , as at present .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the season 's latest storm , Ophelia , has weakened to " tropical storm " status as it hovers off the U.S. Atlantic coast .
Ophelia 's winds dropped to about 115 kilometers an hour Monday , just below hurricane level ( 119 kph ) .
But residents of both North and South Carolina remain wary , as it could regain strength .
The storm 's path is uncertain .
Officials are taking extra precautions after the destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina , which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast two weeks ago .
There is a hurricane watch along 400 kilometers of the east coast .
The governor of North Carolina has declared a state of emergency and ordered tourists to leave an island in the state 's Outer Banks chain .
Pakistani police say they have arrested five people in Karachi for allegedly plotting attacks on security forces and government buildings in the nation 's commercial capital .
Karachi 's police chief , Waseem Ahmed , told reporters Wednesday the suspected terrorists belong to the Sunni extremist group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi .
Police say they recovered weapons and ammunition when they captured the men during a raid Tuesday night in the Sohrab Goth neighborhood , in the southern city .
The police chief says the men planned to target several government buildings and the police head office in Karachi .
A leading environmental organization says it has uncovered a massive timber smuggling operation linking Indonesia 's province of Papua and China .
The London-based Environmental Investigation Agency Thursday said 300,000 cubic meters of merbau wood is being illegally smuggled out of Papua every month .
It says the operation is threatening the last major tract of undisturbed tropical forests in the entire Asia-Pacific region .
Illegal logging is common in Indonesia and the environmental group says it continues despite Indonesia 's 2001 ban on exporting logs , and an anti-smuggling agreement between Jakarta and Beijing .
The smuggling operation , which the group contends involves the powerful Indonesian military , is worth up to $ 1 billion a year , based on the wood 's value in the west .
Under the watchful eye of security forces , the family of ousted Chinese leader Zhao Ziyang has held a memorial ceremony for him on China 's traditional day of remembrance for the dead .
Zhao 's family planted a magnolia tree in the backyard of his Beijing home Tuesday .
The former Communist Party leader died in January at the age of 85 .
Zhao was deposed in 1989 over his opposition to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square .
He spent the next 15 years under house arrest .
China 's government accused Zhao of making " serious mistakes " in his handling of the protests and downplayed his death .
Many pro-democracy activists and relatives of those who were killed in Tiananmen have been prevented by security forces from visiting Zhao 's home to pay their respects .
Thousands of Palestinians and Lebanese civil rights activists rallied in Beirut Sunday to demand more rights for Palestinian refugees .
Several buses transported demonstrators to the Lebanese capital waving Palestinian flags and carrying signs saying , " We just want to live in dignity . "
Many of the refugees live in overcrowded refugee camps across the country .
The event organizers had planned to protest outside the parliament building but moved the demonstration in front of the nearby U.N. headquarters when Lebanese soldiers prevented them from gathering there .
About 400,000 Palestinians are registered as refugees in Lebanon by the U.N. Palestinian refugees in Lebanon have restrictions on employment opportunities and can not own property under Lebanese law .
Representatives of the European Union and China have failed to resolve a trade dispute over Chinese textiles during a third day of talks in Beijing Saturday .
Negotiators say they will continue their discussions on Sunday .
In June , China agreed to quotas in its textile exports to the EU .
But millions of items of clothing manufactured in China have been blocked in European ports because China has already shipped its annual quota .
The quotas are designed to protect European textile manufacturers from low-priced Chinese competition .
Chinese textile exports surged early this year when a global system of textile quotas ended .
Talks between China and the EU began on Thursday .
More than 1,000 supporters of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic have walked past his coffin , paying final respects to the late president .
A large portrait of the former leader was placed Thursday in front of the closed , flag-draped casket at a communist-era museum in Belgrade .
The observances prompted criticism from the museum 's director about the use of the cultural institution for political purposes .
Officials with Milosevic 's Socialist Party say his coffin will remain on public display until Saturday , when it will be taken to his hometown of Pozarevac .
Milosevic will be buried in the yard of his family home .
A top party official , Milorad Vucelic says Milosevic 's widow , Mira Markovic , is expected to return to Belgrade from Russia Friday for the funeral .
Her expected appearance follows a Serbian court Tuesday suspending an arrest warrant for her on charges of abuse of power .
There will be no official remembrances for Milosevic .
Serbian President Boris Tadic has ruled out a state funeral .
Milosevic died of a heart attack last week in his jail cell near The Hague .
He was on trial before the United Nations war crimes tribunal for genocide and crimes against humanity stemming from the Balkan wars of the 1990s .
The U.N. Security Council on Thursday denounced the recent military crackdown against pro-democracy protesters in Burma and called for a release of all political prisoners there .
Permanent members of the council with veto powers , China and Russia , had been pushing for softer language , while the United States and other Western powers want tougher action against the military-backed government .
The non-binding statement was issued as U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he would dispatch special adviser Ibrahim Gambari back to the region for consultations on the situation in Burma .
The U.N. says Gambari will begin his Asian tour on Monday in Thailand before continuing to Malaysia , Indonesia , India , China and Japan .
He will return to Burma shortly thereafter .
Gambari returned from a four-day visit to Burma last week .
Burmese officials say the crackdown on pro-democracy protesters left 10 people dead .
Dissidents put the number of fatalities at 200 .
Bolivian President-elect Evo Morales has met with two prominent South Africans as he winds up his visit to South Africa .
Morales met with Archbishop Desmond Tutu and former President F. W. De Klerk Thursday to learn how the two Nobel Peace Prize winners helped transform South Africa from , as Morales said , " apartheid isolation to democratic prosperity . "
He also visited the notorious Robben Island prison , where anti-apartheid leader and former President Nelson Mandela , also a Nobel Peace laureate , spent years in captivity .
Morales is the first indigenous Bolivian to be elected president .
He has pledged to concentrate on fighting discrimination and poverty in his poor South American homeland .
Wednesday , Morales met with South African President Thabo Mbeki and said the meeting strengthened political ties between their countries .
Morales is traveling next to Brazil , where he will meet with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva on Friday .
Israeli troops have shot and killed a young Palestinian girl in the southern Gaza Strip , after militants fired mortar rounds at a nearby Jewish settlement .
Officials say the confrontation began when militants fired three mortars at the settlement near the Khan Younis refugee camp .
Four Israelis , including one child , were hurt .
In response , the Israeli military fired into the refugee camp , killing the young girl .
Palestinian militants often fire homemade mortars and missiles into Jewish settlements in Gaza , but they rarely cause any injury or damage .
Nearly a week after Cyclone Nargis hit Burma , bloating corpses dot the canals and riverbanks of the Irrawaddy River delta .
Rescuers , including Buddhist monks , are struggling to reach survivors before they succumb to disease and starvation .
International health officials say as many as 1.5 million homeless people face a wide range of threats from deadly diseases , including malaria and cholera , diarrhea , sun exposure and dirty water .
Shelter remains scarce and reports from Burma say profiteers are charging exorbitant prices for food , gas and other essentials .
One victim tells VOA Burmese Service that entire homes in his village were washed away and that only about 20 people survived the storm .
Some survivors say they have been forced to move from village to village in search of aid .
They say most of the help is coming from local sources and not from the government .
Iraq 's prime minister has named his defense and interior ministers , and a head of national security , following weeks of negotiations over the posts .
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki named Jawad al-Bolani , a Shi'ite Muslim , as his interior minister ; Sunni Arab General Abdel Qader Jassim as the defense minister ; and another Shi'ite , Sherwan al-Waili , as the new head of national security .
Filling the posts was considered crucial for Mr. Maliki as he moves to implement a plan for Iraqi forces to take charge of security to allow for the reduction and eventual withdrawal of foreign troops .
In other developments Thursday , insurgents carried out a string of bomb attacks across Baghdad , killing at least 27 people .
In the deadliest blast , a bomb killed 13 people at a crowded market in eastern Baghdad .
Slovakia has made significant economic reforms since its separation from the Czech Republic in 1993 .
Reforms to the taxation , healthcare , pension , and social welfare systems helped Slovakia consolidate its budget and get on track to join the EU in 2004 and to adopt the euro in January 2009 .
Major privatizations are nearly complete , the banking sector is almost entirely in foreign hands , and the government has helped facilitate a foreign investment boom with business friendly policies .
Slovakia 's economic growth exceeded expectations in 2001 - 08 despite a general European slowdown .
Unemployment , at an unacceptable 18 % in 2003 - 04 , dropped to 7.7 % in 2008 but remains the economy 's Achilles heel .
Foreign direct investment ( FDI ) accounted for much of the growth until 2008 .
Cheap and skilled labor , low taxes , a 19 % flat tax for corporations and individuals , no dividend taxes , a relatively liberal labor code and a favorable geographical location are Slovakia 's main advantages for foreign investors .
Foreign investment in the automotive and electronic sectors has been especially strong .
To maintain a stable operating environment for investors , the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development advised the Slovak government to refrain from intervening in important sectors of the economy .
However , Bratislava 's approach to mitigating the economic slowdown has included substantial government intervention and the option to nationalize strategic companies .
RADICOVA 's government , in power since July 2010 , has allowed the budget deficit to rise slightly , to 7.9 % of GDP in 2010 .
GDP fell nearly 5 % in 2009 before gaining back 4 % in 2010 , and unemployment rose above 12 % in 2010 , as the global recession impacted many segments of the economy .
An American has managed to escape from kidnappers who abducted him from the streets of Kabul , Afghanistan .
The man , whose name has not been released , was accosted and forced into the trunk of a car , but within minutes , he managed to open the trunk and jump out .
The kidnappers drove away in the car .
The United States Embassy says the victim is an American civilian , but did not say why the man is in Afghanistan .
Since a British adviser to the Afghan government was shot to death in Kabul last month , foreigners have been advised to keep a low profile .
President Bush Friday made Christmas Eve phone calls to members of the U.S. military , thanking them for their service and wishing them happy holidays .
Mr. Bush placed the calls from the presidential retreat at Camp David , Maryland , where the Bush family is spending the Christmas weekend .
The White House says Mr. Bush called 10 soldiers in all - six of them stationed in Iraq , another serving in Korea , and three others in the United States .
President Bush has also sent out his annual Christmas message .
In the message , Mr. Bush thanked all members of the armed forces and urged Americans to help neighbors in need .
The president issued a separate message extending best wishes to those who celebrate Kwanzaa , a December holiday observed by many African-Americans .
The two Koreas have announced special prisoner amnesties to mark the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the peninsula from Japanese colonial rule .
South Korean authorities said Friday , that President Roh Moo-hyun has issued more than four million pardons , covering a range of offenses including corruption by government officials , less serious crimes and traffic-law violations .
Authorities in Pyongyang say North Korea is granting amnesty to prisoners to celebrate not only the liberation of the Korean peninsula in 1945 , but also the found of its Communist party 60 years ago .
The official Korean Central News Agency says the amnesty will take effect on September 1 .
There is no word on how many prisoners will be pardoned or what crimes the amnesty will absolve .
The United States estimates that North Korea has between 150,000 and 200,000 political prisoners in custody .
World oil prices soared to new record highs Tuesday as investors worried about the impact of Hurricane Katrina on oil production in the United States .
The price of a barrel of crude oil for future delivery went as high as $ 70.85 in New York trading .
The powerful hurricane tore through an area that produces about 25 percent of the crude oil used by the United States .
It also shut down key refineries in the path of the storm .
Even before the hurricane , world oil prices were at high levels as strong demand from China , India , and the United States strained the ability of oil producers and refiners to get products to market .
Turkish Cypriots have voted Sunday to elect their first new president in more than 20 years .
The 81-year-old incumbent Rauf Denktash , who declared the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus an independent state in 1983 , is not running for re-election .
Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat led a field of nine candidates in pre-election opinion polls .
He backs a United Nations plan for resolving the division of the island .
When he cast his ballot Sunday , Mr. Talat called it a vote for peace .
Cyprus has been divided between Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities since 1974 when Turkish troops invaded in response to a coup in Nicosia backed by Greece .
Turkish Cypriots voted last year in favor of the U.N. reunification plan , but Greek Cypriots rejected it .
Chinese paramilitary officer gestures outside of the Japanese embassy in Beijing , the scene of violent protests Beijing 's police chief has warned people against staging anti-Japanese protests during the week-long May Day holiday that starts on Sunday .
The official Xinhua news agency quotes Ma Zhenchuan , the director of the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau Saturday as saying police would resolutely punish law breakers who organize and instigate illegal demonstrations .
Police also sent text messages via cell phones to city residents , urging them not to participate in illegal protests .
Fresh protests had been rumored to be planned in Beijing and other cities for Sunday and Wednesday , About 10,000 people took part in an anti-Japanese protest in Beijing on April 9 , with many hurling stones , eggs and bottles at the Japanese embassy and ambassador 's residence .
A U.S. Defense Department internal probe has found there was no direct cooperation between the al-Qaida terrorist network and Saddam Hussein 's Iraqi government .
A declassified Pentagon report says military officials reached the conclusion based on interviews with Saddam and two former aides , and documents seized by U.S. forces after Saddam was ousted in 2003 .
The report by Pentagon acting inspector general Thomas Gimble backs earlier assertions made by the intelligence community before the U.S.-led invasion that Iraq and al-Qaida had no operational ties .
In a radio interview Thursday , U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney repeated the Bush administration 's view that al Qaida was present in Iraq before the start of the war .
As Europe 's largest economy and second most populous nation ( after Russia ) , Germany is a key member of the continent 's economic , political , and defense organizations .
European power struggles immersed Germany in two devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th century and left the country occupied by the victorious Allied powers of the US , UK , France , and the Soviet Union in 1945 .
With the advent of the Cold War , two German states were formed in 1949 : the western Federal Republic of Germany ( FRG ) and the eastern German Democratic Republic ( GDR ) .
The democratic FRG embedded itself in key Western economic and security organizations , the EC , which became the EU , and NATO , while the Communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact .
The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War allowed for German unification in 1990 .
Since then , Germany has expended considerable funds to bring Eastern productivity and wages up to Western standards .
In January 1999 , Germany and 10 other EU countries introduced a common European exchange currency , the euro .
In January 2011 , Germany assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
The United States ' only mobile field hospital has arrived in Pakistan to help earthquake victims in Pakistan 's devastated Kashmir region .
Officials Sunday said the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital , or MASH unit , would be positioned in Muzaffarabad , the capital of Pakistani Kashmir .
They say the Germany-based unit will be an important addition to other international hospitals operating in the region .
Tens of thousands of people were injured in the massive quake , and Pakistani and international medical teams have been struggling to treat them .
U.S. Army doctors say they expect to see people with broken bones , trauma injuries and those suffering from shock , cold or malnutrition .
The MASH unit , the last of its kind in the U.S. Army , dates back to World War I and has been used in several conflicts , including Vietnam , the Balkans and the 1991 Gulf war .
Ukrainian opposition leader says his rival in the country 's upcoming presidential election is planning to disrupt the vote .
Viktor Yushchenko told a news conference in Kiev Thursday that provocations are being planned for the December 26 balloting .
Wednesday , his rival , Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , said massive protests are planned if Mr. Yushchenko wins the poll .
The prime minister was declared the winner of a flawed election in November , but the Supreme Court overturned the results and ordered this month 's re-run .
The election has been hotly contested .
Mr. Yushchenko told the Associated Press he was poisoned during a dinner in September with top Ukrainian security officials .
He said the meeting was the only time he was without his staff and no precautions were taken with regards to his food .
The doctors who treated him in Austria said he suffered dioxin poisoning .
As the dollar 's value drops , especially in relation to the euro , the British pound and some Asian currencies , New York City is experiencing a new kind of tourism boom .
The world is coming to New York to go shopping .
Some say their savings on consumer goods actually pays for their travel .
VOA 's Carolyn Weaver reports .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says coalition forces killed more than 50 insurgents in southern Afghanistan during a 12-hour battle that ended early Thursday , but there also are reports of civilian casualties .
The battle took place in Helmand Province , near Musa Qala village , which has seen intense fighting and heavy casualties throughout this week .
A U.S. military statement says coalition warplanes were called in during the Musa Qala fighting , but that there were no casualties among either coalition troops or civilians .
However , several residents of Musa Qala district have told reporters they believe almost all victims of the air strike were civilians .
They say 16 civilians died in the bombing raid .
One British soldier was killed Thursday during a separate clash between NATO troops and militants in southern Afghanistan .
Violence has surged in Afghanistan during the past 18 months , the bloodiest period since U.S.-led troops overthrew the Taleban in 2001 .
Pakistani officials say a wintery mix of rain and snow has fallen over Pakistan 's earthquake zone today Sunday , disrupting relief operations .
Nearly 20 centimeters of snow fell in some high-altitude areas and up to 32 millimeters of rain fell today in some lower areas .
A Pakistani army spokesman told the Reuters news agency no helicopters could fly in quake-stricken Kashmir because of rain and clouds .
International relief officials also said their flight operations had been called off because of the weather .
Thousands of victims from the deadly October 8 earthquake have found shelter in temporary camps , but tens of thousands more remain in high-altitude villages .
U.N. officials have warned cold weather could force some 40,000 people to abandon the villages and seek shelter in already over-crowded cities in the warmer valleys .
A suicide bomber walked into a local government office in southern Afghanistan Monday and blew himself up , killing eight people .
Among the dead are four policemen and four civilians .
The attack occurred in Nad Ali district of Afghanistan 's opium producing heartland of Helmand province .
Taleban insurgents have vowed to step up their attacks against Afghan and international troops during the holy month of Ramadan , which began last week .
Meanwhile , Bangladesh is appealing for the release of an aid worker kidnapped just south of the capital , Kabul , on Saturday .
An official with the interim government of Bangladesh said in a statement Monday the abducted man 's only mission in Afghanistan is humanitarian .
The Bangladeshi national was taken from his office in Logar province by unidentified armed men .
The world 's stock markets posted mixed results Wednesday after a week of turmoil that saw steep losses and some recovery .
The major U.S. stock market indexes lost around three-tenths of a percent after rising oil prices discouraged traders .
European stock market indexes moved up two-tenths of a percent or more .
Dealers say many investors are concerned that the global market sell-off that began last week may resume .
Earlier in Asia , major indices fell almost one percent in Mumbai and Hong Kong , while Tokyo was down half-a-percent at the close .
A new survey says more Afghans think their country is heading in the right direction , even though many believe it is still plagued by a lack of security .
In a poll released Tuesday by the Asia Foundation , 47 percent of those surveyed said Afghanistan is on the right track .
That is up from 42 percent in 2009 .
A lack of security was listed as the nation 's top problem , followed by unemployment and corruption .
This year 's survey showed a large jump in the number of Afghans who say they support efforts to negotiate with armed groups .
More than 83 percent of those surveyed said they back talks with insurgents , up from 71 percent in 2009 .
The Asia Foundation surveyed more than 6,400 Afghan adults in June and July .
Russian officials have officially opened two new schools in the southern town of Beslan to replace the one destroyed in last year 's school siege , which ended with the deaths of 330 people .
The ceremonies Wednesday comes almost one year after armed militants raided the school , taking more than 1,000 people hostage .
The siege ended in explosions and a hail of gunfire as Russian security forces stormed the building .
More than half those killed were children .
Chechen separatist leader Shamil Basayev has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Last week , robbers ransacked one of the new schools and made off with thousands of dollars worth of equipment .
Iraqi officials say five people , including four children , were killed Thursday in attacks in Baghdad .
Authorities say a bomb attached to a government worker 's car exploded , killing four children inside it and injuring the worker and his wife .
Meanwhile , unidentified gunmen killed an Iraqi army officer and injured at his wife in northern Baghdad .
The Associated Press says the officer worked with units that provide protection to Iraqi government officials .
Separately , officials in Baghdad say a police officer was mistakenly killed after Finance Ministry security guards opened fire on a suspicious vehicle .
China 's state news agency says scientists have developed two vaccines to prevent the spread of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Xinhua quoted the director of the China National Bird Flu Reference Laboratory , Chen Hualan as saying experiments show the new vaccines are 100 percent effective in preventing the spread of the virus .
Last week , China enacted emergency measures after confirming that the virus killed scores of migratory birds in the western Qinghai province .
No human cases were reported .
The World Health Organization recently said a study suggests the virus is mutating in ways that could pose a greater threat to humans .
Experts have warned that such a mutation could kill millions .
The virus has killed more than 50 people in Vietnam , Thailand and Cambodia .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says an HIV-positive man in northern China has infected at least 18 people with the virus by repeatedly donating blood before knowing he had the disease .
Three of the blood recipients have died .
Xinhua says the man made 15 blood donations in Jilin province 's Dehui city between January of 2003 and June of 2004 .
The report says his blood was apparently never tested for the deadly virus .
China 's state media say authorities are investigating the case , and that at least 11 workers of the city 's central blood bank have been detained .
China estimates 840,000 people on the mainland are HIV-positive , although some experts suspect there are many more .
The World Health Organization says China could have 10 million people infected by 2010 .
Thailand said Tuesday it is lifting a state of emergency in three northern provinces , but it will remain in force in others , including the capital , Bangkok .
The government extended the state of emergency for three months across much of the country on July 6 , citing concerns that anti-government elements might instigate more unrest like the weeks of deadly protests that began in March .
The decree suspends some civil liberties , allows censorship and makes it easier to use the military to keep the peace .
Fighting between Thai security forces and anti-government Red Shirts killed 90 people and wounded about 1,900 others during the protesters ' 10-week occupation of part of downtown Bangkok .
The military broke up the Red Shirts ' encampment in a raid on May 19 .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say militants have raided a police station , killing two officers and stealing a cache of weapons .
Police officials say at least one officer assisted the group of militants in the attack late Friday in the remote Doda district .
Police gave few details of the attack .
Officials say security forces are searching for the attackers , who fled after the raid .
Kashmir is in the midst of a 17-year insurgency that has claimed more than 45,000 lives .
Various rebel groups are fighting for an independent Kashmir or its merger with Pakistan .
Egyptian police have killed a man they say was the leader of an Islamist militant group blamed for several attacks on tourist towns last month .
Security officials said Tuesday that Nasser Khamis el-Mallahi was killed in a firefight near the North Sinai town of El-Arish .
One accomplice was captured .
Police say el-Mallahi headed Tawhid wal Jihad , which has been blamed for a series of attacks against tourist resorts in the Sinai since 2004 .
The attacks have killed at least 117 people .
The most recent occurred last month in Dahab , when three near-simultaneous explosions killed at least 19 people .
About 80 others were wounded in the blasts .
European Union leaders have agreed to a long-term budget after Britain offered to reduce its annual rebate .
The leaders reached a final deal in Brussels early Saturday after British Prime Minister Tony Blair agreed to cut his country 's rebate by nearly $ 13 billion .
Mr. Blair described negotiations as extraordinarily difficult .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel played a key role in the talks and praised the deal .
Polish Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz said the budget was reached in the spirit of solidarity .
The six-year plan begins in 2007 .
It includes billions of dollars of development aid to new member states from Eastern Europe , and caps overall spending at $ 1 trillion dollars for the six-year period .
The final deal calls for a review of all EU budget revenue and spending , including farm subsidies .
Police in Indonesia have announced a $ 10,000 ( 100 million rupiah ) reward for information identifying the three men who carried out suicide bomb attacks on Bali earlier this month .
Officials are distributing hundreds of thousands of photos of the bombers ' severed heads as well as of the Malaysian fugitives accused in the plot .
Weeks of police work have failed to identify the bombers or uncover organizers behind the attacks that killed 23 people , including the bombers , October 1 .
Indonesian authorities also are offering a reward of $ 100,000 ( one billion rupiah ) for information leading to the arrest of Malaysian suspects Noordin Mohamed Top and Azahari bin Husin .
The two are alleged leaders of the al Qaida-linked regional terror group Jemaah Islamiyah , which is also blamed in the 2002 Bali bomb attacks that killed 202 people .
Calling the press an " agent of change , " United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan marked the thirteenth annual World Press Freedom Day by declaring his support of the universal right to freedom of expression .
According to the international group Committee to Protect Journalists , press freedom in Africa has deteriorated in the past year .
The group 's Africa Coordinator , Julia Crawford , says Eritrea and Equatorial Guinea are among the top 10 countries in the world that censor their journalists the most .
But she also criticized Ethiopia for the recent jailings of reporters .
Crawford says there are some countries , like Liberia , where press freedom is more hopeful .
She notes that freedom of the press is an essential foundation for democracy .
The Committee to Protect Journalists says 47 journalists were killed around the world in 2005 , and 11 have lost their lives so far this year .
Palestinian protests erupted in east Jerusalem on Tuesday after Israeli forces demolished a home in the Arab neighborhood of Issawiya .
Israeli police report an angry crowd of protesters threw rocks and set several cars on fire before forces broke up the demonstration .
Israeli authorities say a home and a small room housing a printing press next door were demolished because they were built illegally .
Also on Tuesday , five Palestinians were injured by Israeli gunfire while looking for construction material in rubble near Gaza 's northern border with Israel .
The Israeli military said it had opened fire on three Palestinians approaching the border fence after they failed to respond to warning shots .
NEW : Follow our Middle East stories on Twitter and discuss them on our Facebook page .
Chilean authorities have arrested the wife and four children of former dictator Augusto Pinochet on tax evasion charges .
A judge ordered the arrest of Lucia Hiriart and her children Monday as part of an investigation into millions of dollars kept in bank accounts abroad .
General Pinochet has been indicted for tax fraud for allegedly hiding $ 27 million in foreign bank accounts .
Pinochet also faces human rights charges related to " Operation Colombo " , in which some 119 political opponents disappeared during the former dictator 's rule in the mid-1970s .
His lawyers say he is not healthy enough to stand trial , but court-ordered doctors say he is fit enough to do so .
Russia 's lower house of parliament has warned that the execution of Saddam Hussein could lead to a further escalation of violence in war-torn Iraq .
The Kremlin-controlled State Duma Wednesday unanimously approved a statement saying that executing Saddam " will not solve the existing problems of the long-suffering people of Iraq . "
An Iraqi tribunal this month convicted the former president of crimes against humanity for the 1982 killings of 148 Iraqi Shi'ite Muslims in the village of Dujail , and sentenced him to death by hanging .
No execution date has been set .
Moscow has been a consistent critic of the U.S.-led military campaign in Iraq .
Russian authorities have warned previously that Saddam 's execution will dangerously increase tensions between Iraq 's Sunni Muslims who backed Saddam , and the majority Shi'ite population which supported the death penalty .
Indian troops say they have killed six more suspected militants in Indian-controlled Kashmir , bringing the death toll from several days of fierce gunbattles to 25 .
Indian army spokesman Lieutenant Colonel J.S. Brar said the fighting ended Tuesday , with eight soldiers and 17 militants , killed since Friday in the Kupwara district .
The area is close to the Line of Control that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan .
An army spokesman says troops began flushing out militants from the Shamsbari area Friday , sparking the longest and deadliest clash in the disputed region in recent months .
Muslim separatists in Kashmir have been fighting for independence or a merger with Pakistan since 1989 .
Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the violence .
India and Pakistan began a slowly-implemented peace process in 2004 .
Two of their three wars have been fought over Kashmir .
Valley Federal Savings & Loan Association took an $ 89.9 million charge as it reported a third-quarter loss of $ 70.7 million , or $ 12.09 a share .
The Van Nuys , Calif. , thrift had net income of $ 132,000 , or three cents a share , a year ago .
The bulk of the pretax charge is a $ 62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary , which the company said had been a big drain on earnings .
The company said the one-time provision would substantially eliminate all future losses at the unit .
Valley Federal also added $ 18 million to realestate loan reserves and eliminated $ 9.9 million of good will .
The thrift said that " after these charges and assuming no dramatic fluctuation in interest rates , the association expects to achieve near record earnings in 1990 . "
Valley Federal is currently being examined by regulators .
New loans continue to slow ; they were $ 6.6 million in the quarter compared with $ 361.8 million a year ago .
The thrift has assets of $ 3.2 billion .
A published report says Zimbabwe security officials are probing whether two cabinet officials and a lawmaker are linked to an alleged spying ring .
The state-run Sunday Mail reports officials this week hope to question the three men , who have been accused of passing state secrets to foreign intelligence agencies .
The report alleges the men received " handsome payments " for the information .
Another person suspected in the alleged ring is an official , Erasmus Moyo , at Zimbabwe 's embassy in Geneva , who has been reported missing .
Officials say he disappeared after being summoned back to Zimbabwe .
Last month , police arrested four other men , including a ruling party lawmaker , Philip Chiyangwa , on charges of selling state secrets to foreign powers .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's Kadima Party has named interim Prime Minister Ehud Olmert as its acting chairman to lead the party into March 28 elections .
A Kadima Party statement Monday says the decision was taken because of Mr. Sharon 's medical condition .
The 77-year-old leader remains in a coma after suffering a massive stroke on January 4 .
In another development , Israel has sent security forces to the West Bank town of Hebron following a riot by Jewish settlers protesting an eviction order for eight settler families who occupied Palestinian homes four years ago .
One Israeli soldier was wounded in the violence Saturday - the last day the families were to be allowed to leave without eviction by force .
About 400 settlers live in Hebron which has a Palestinian population of around 120,000 .
Pope Benedict XVI called on African leaders Monday to make the needs of the poor their prime concern .
The Roman Catholic pontiff made his remarks before heading back to Rome from the airport in Angola 's capital , Luanda .
During his seven-day trip to Cameroon and Angola , the pope promoted the message of Christianity as a way to inspire hope .
But his rejection of condoms as a means to fight Africa 's AIDS epidemic provoked a firestorm of criticism during his visit .
Pope Benedict celebrated Mass Sunday with an estimated one million Christian faithful in Luanda .
In his homily , the pope lamented what he called " clouds of evil " over Africa .
He said war and greed have robbed the continent of the resources needed to build a better society .
The Vatican says Africa has been a place of tremendous growth for the Catholic Church .
Ukraine 's parliament has voted to dismiss two senior officials over a recent deal that nearly doubled prices for imported Russian gas .
A total of 246 members of Ukraine 's parliament Thursday endorsed the dismissal of Justice Minister Serhiy Holovaty and Fuel and Energy Minister Ivan Plachkov .
Lawmakers also expressed no-confidence in Oleksiy Ivchenko , head of the state gas company , Naftogaz Ukrainy .
Earlier this month , Ukraine agreed to buy gas from Russia at a rate of $ 95 per 1,000 cubic meters - up from the previous rate of $ 50 - following Russia 's three-day suspension of deliveries .
But the deal triggered a political crisis , and Ukraine 's parliament voted to dismiss the government of Prime Minister Yuriy Yekhanurov .
Thursday , Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko formally asked the Constitutional Court to decide the legality of the dismissal .
British police have been out in force in Edinburgh , Scotland , Monday , where demonstrators have begun protesting the G-Eight conference of industrialized nations that opens Wednesday .
An undetermined number of arrests were reported after some of the protesters scuffled with police .
There were no reports of serious violence .
Advocates of several causes have descended to promote their causes , including representatives from anti-military , anti-nuclear , and anti-globalization groups .
The Indonesian health ministry says bird flu is suspected in the recent deaths of a man and his two daughters near Jakarta .
The victims would be Indonesia 's first human fatalities linked to avian influenza .
Health Minister Siti Fadillah Supari says there is no evidence the man and his daughters had contact with sickened poultry , which raises the probability of human-to-human transmission of bird flu .
Hundreds of millions of birds have died or been culled across Asia during the past two years due to the deadly virus which has jumped to humans , killing people in Vietnam , Cambodia and Thailand .
World health officials have long feared the virus might change into a form easily transferable among people , triggering a deadly global pandemic .
Former U.S. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay has successfully petitioned to remove the judge set to preside over the politician 's campaign-finance trial .
In a Texas courtroom Tuesday , a retired district judge , C.W. Duncan , hearing the petition ruled in favor of the embattled Republican lawmaker .
Last week , Mr. DeLay 's lawyer filed a motion asking that the trial 's judge , Bob Perkins , be replaced because he has contributed to MoveOn.org , a political action group that has been critical of Mr. DeLay and supports Democratic Party candidates and issues .
Mr. DeLay and two associates are accused of illegally funneling corporate donations to candidates .
All three have denied any wrongdoing .
Mr. DeLay was forced to step down from the majority leader 's post under House rules , but retains his congressional seat .
Police in Nepal have detained more than 50 Tibetan protesters as they prepared to demonstrate near the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu .
The protesters were traveling to the embassy in buses when they were stopped by police and driven to detention centers .
Nepal is home to some 20,000 Tibetan refugees and has seen daily , pro-Tibet demonstrations since violence erupted in Tibet in March .
Police have been detaining the protesters but are generally freeing them the same day .
Nepal regards Tibet as part of China .
UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan is leaving Tuesday for Africa , where he will co-chair a conference designed to raise support for the African Union mission in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
The secretary-general spoke about his trip with reporters Monday at U.N. headquarters in New York .
He said he will co-chair the donor 's meeting Thursday in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia , where the A.U. has its headquarters .
Mr. Annan said there are plans to expand the AU peacekeeping force in Darfur from the current 2,000 troops to 8,000 .
But he said the AU is about $ 350 million short for the project .
The secretary-general will also be traveling to the Darfur region himself and to Sudan 's southern town of Rumbek , where he will examine the peace process .
India 's cricket team has compiled an impressive total of 352-3 after the opening day of the second test against Pakistan in Kolkata .
Wasim Jaffer led the way Friday with an aggressive 192 not out as he aims for his second double-century in 24 tests .
The opening batsman struck 32 boundaries off 255 deliveries .
Jaffer shared prosperous partnerships with Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar after opener Dinesh Kartik fell for one in the second over .
Jaffer anchored the second-wicket partnership of 136 with Dravid , who had 50 , and then a 175-run stand for the third wicket with Tendulkar , who tallied 82 .
Dravid 's 117-ball knock contained seven boundaries .
India won the opening test of this three-match series by six wickets .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is reported to have called Israel the " flag of Satan . "
The state-run IRNA news agency says the Iranian leader made the comment to a religious conference .
It quotes him saying that when the philosophy of a state is in question , it may be on the path to decline and dissolution .
Mr. Ahmadinejad sparked international outrage in 2005 when he said Israel should be wiped off the map .
He has also called the Holocaust a myth .
A Burmese dissident living in the United States says the Burmese government is conducting a smear campaign against him .
Aung Din , of the lobbying group U.S. Campaign for Burma , told VOA 's Burmese service that he has been named as a suspect in last month 's bombings at three shopping centers in Rangoon , in which at least 19 people died .
Aung Din said his family in Burma has confirmed the government is circulating leaflets accusing him of involvement in the bombing .
He also said that the government briefly detained his family for questioning following the attacks .
Aung Din said he categorically denies any involvement in the bombings .
He said his lobbying group does not practice terrorism and only supports protest by peaceful means .
More than two million Muslim pilgrims on the ritual journey known as Hajj are Saturday performing a ritual stoning ceremony in Mina , Saudi Arabia .
Millions of people crowded into the holy site to throw small stones at walls called jamarat , as part of a ritual representing the symbolic stoning of the devil .
More than 360 worshippers died in a stampede during the stoning ritual a year ago .
Saudi authorities have spent more than $ 1 billion renovating the site to make it safe .
The Hajj began Thursday under heavy security .
The grueling ritual is a duty for every able-bodied Muslim who can afford to make the trip .
Each year pilgrims wearing white robes , symbolizing equality , converge on Islamic holy sites in Saudi Arabia for five days of rituals , prayer and communion with fellow Muslims .
U.S.-based automaker Ford Motor Company has reported a $ 750 Million profit in the April through June quarter , breaking a nearly two-year streak of consecutive quarterly losses .
Thursday 's profit report came as a surprise to many analysts who had expected further losses from the struggling auto company .
Ford 's profit is attributed to increased sales worldwide , as well as the recent sale of its Aston Martin operation .
Ford Chief Executive Alan Mulally said the results are proof that an overall cost-reduction plan is working , but warned that the second half of this year will be difficult .
The second-largest U.S. automaker is trying to recover from losses that totaled about $ 12.5 billion last year .
To regain profitability , the company launched a major restructuring plan that involves closing 16 factories and eliminating up to 44,000 jobs .
An agreement has been reached in Ecuador to end a strike that had shut down oil exports from the country 's two largest oil-producing regions and had triggered violent protests .
The accord was reached Thursday between the protesters and oil companies after four days of talks .
It calls for those companies to invest more in the poor communities where they drill , including repairing highways .
However , the accord does not include a key demand of the demonstrators - that they not face prosecution for damaging oil installations during the protests .
The strike and protests led the government to declare a state of emergency in Orellana and Sucumbios provinces and to put them under military control .
Most of Ecuador 's oil exports go to the United States .
Former Presidents Bill Clinton and George Bush have started a nationwide fundraising campaign to help hurricane victims .
The former presidents announced the Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund at a news conference in Houston , Texas Monday .
The money raised will go to the governors of Louisiana , Mississippi and Alabama for disaster relief and medical services .
Former President Clinton said Congress must focus on what action it can take to alleviate the suffering of those displaced - such as providing incentives for firms to hire evacuees .
President Bush 's father , former President Bush said retail giant Wal-Mart will immediately give jobs to their employees who have to re-locate because of the hurricane .
Wal-Mart is also contributing $ 23 million to the fund .
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush , once political rivals , teamed up earlier this year to coordinate the U.S. fundraising drive for victims of the tsunami .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has warned a booming trade in opium and heroin threatens the existence of Afghanistan as a nation-state .
In an interview with the Associated Press Sunday , the Afghan leader called drugs a bigger threat than terrorism .
He said foreign crime groups and terrorists are forcing farmers to grow poppies .
He said drugs are criminalizing the economy , tainting the country 's image and hindering the development of strong government institutions .
During the interview , Mr. Karzai also invited Taleban leader Mullah Omar to contact his government and seek reconciliation .
But he expressed doubts that the fugitive leader would come out of hiding .
The Afghan leader also said that NATO-led troops taking over security in southern part of the country must not use aggressive tactics without government permission .
After cracking down on firms trading with Iran , UAE authorities say they are worried that the newest sanctions against Iran may hurt business interests .
Iran is one of the United Arab Emirate 's largest trading partners .
UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash says the two countries have billions of dollars in legitimate trade agreements that must be spared .
He said Monday that the government is trying to decide on an approach that will help it sift through the exchanges that do not violate sanctions .
The UAE comments come days after U.S. Undersecretary of the Treasury Stuart Levey made a trip to the UAE to urge tighter enforcement of the sanctions against Iran .
The sanctions are designed to curtail Iran 's alleged nuclear weapons program .
Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful use .
Scientists in the United States say they believe they have discovered what makes bird flu viruses so deadly to humans .
Researchers at St. Jude Children 's Research Hospital in Memphis , Tennessee , say the culprit may be a protein found in the genes of many avian flu viruses .
The scientists say this protein can attach to proteins in human cells .
They found the protein only in the avian flu viruses they sampled , and not in any of what are known as the human strains of the disease .
The researchers say this striking difference between the two viruses may explain why avian influenza is more lethal to people than human influenza .
The findings are published in the journal Science .
Avian flu is blamed for the global pandemic of 1918 , but not milder outbreaks later in the century .
Bird flu has killed at least 81 people in East Asia and Turkey since 2003 .
New clashes were reported between protesters and police in the Rostock , Germany , ahead of this week 's Group of Eight summit in a nearby resort .
Authorities say some 400 extremists pelted police with bottles as they protested restrictions on refugees and asylum seekers in G8 countries .
The clashes were the second outbreak of violence ahead of Heiligendamm summit .
With public access to the resort closed , demonstrators have been meeting in Rostok .
A riot Saturday left about 1,000 people injured .
Those protesters were demanding that the G8 leading industrialized countries take more action to reduce poverty , inequality , environmental destruction and restrictions on immigration .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel , in a television broadcast Sunday , condemned the violence and warned that authorities will not tolerate such activities .
The White House has condemned the attack targeting a convoy carrying former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .
U.S. National Security Council spokesman , Gordon Johndroe , said Thursday the United States mourns " the loss of innocent life " in Karachi .
The NSC spokesman added , " Extremists will not be allowed to stop Pakistanis from selecting their representatives through an open and democratic process . "
In New York , U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed shock by news of the attack and extended condolences to the families of the victims .
The European Union also denounced the deadly bomb blasts , while Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf called the attacks " a conspiracy against democracy . "
Speaking from Dubai , Ms. Bhutto 's husband , Asif Ali Zardari , alleged that a Pakistani intelligence agency was behind the bloodshed .
Hundreds of Afghan forces - backed by tanks and rocket launchers - have surrounded the country 's main high security prison after Taleban and al-Qaida prisoners seized control Saturday evening .
Authorities restarted negotiations Monday but warned the government could use force end the standoff .
Afghan officials are blaming the uprising on hundreds of al-Qaida and Taleban inmates housed in the Pol-e-Charkhi jail just outside Kabul .
Deputy Afghan Justice Minister Mohammed Qasim Hashimzai says more than a thousand inmates armed with makeshift weapons began the revolt late Saturday .
He says the riots started in block two of the prison , which houses more than 13 hundred of facility 's 2,000 inmates .
He says the violence erupted after inmates rejected new uniforms .
The uniforms were meant to improve security after seven Taleban detainees disguised as civilians escaped last month .
Officials say dozens of inmates have been injured but details are sketchy .
Shuttle astronauts installed part of cooling system on International Space Station .
The U.S. space agency NASA says two astronauts from the shuttle Atlantis have completed a spacewalk to install part of a cooling system on the International Space Station .
Astronauts Rex Walheim and Hans Schlegel installed a nitrogen tank on the orbital outpost .
The outing Wednesday lasted just over six-and-a-half hours .
Schlegel , a German , missed a previous spacewalk due to an undisclosed illness .
On Monday , two astronauts installed a European science laboratory with help from crewmates inside the space station .
Crewmembers set up electrical and data lines linking the Columbus laboratory to the space station before European astronaut Leopold Eyharts of France briefly floated inside the module for the first time .
Atlantis will remain at the space station until at least Sunday .
Authorities in northern Bosnia-Herzegovina have arrested a fugitive Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect .
A spokesman for Bosnia 's Prosecutor 's Office says members of the State Investigation and Protection Agency and Bosnian Serb police apprehended Predrag Kujundzic Wednesday in the northern town of Doboj .
Kujundzic was a commander of a special unit of Bosnian Serb forces during the Balkan conflict of the 1990s .
He is suspected of violating laws and customs of war in the Doboj region on several occasions during 1992 and the following year .
The spokesman said Kujundzic was arrested on the order of the country 's central Prosecutor 's Office and is being held in a court detention facility in Sarajevo .
Nigerian military officials say four soldiers and a policeman were killed in a fierce gun battle Wednesday with militants in the oil-rich Niger Delta .
A Navy spokesman said Thursday that the militants were trying to capture a fuel tanker on the Escravos River , but were repelled .
Officials say three militants were killed .
The militant group , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta , says at least seven soldiers were killed during the gun battle .
They also say that army gunboats attacked them first .
The militants kidnapped nine foreign oil workers last month , but have freed six of them .
They say they will not release the other three until the people of the Delta region receive a greater share of oil revenues .
Nigeria is Africa 's biggest oil exporter , but recent violence has forced an estimated 20 percent cut in the country 's output .
THE President of a great Corporation went into a dry-goods shop and saw a placard which read : " If You Do n't See What You Want , Ask For It . "
Approaching the shopkeeper , who had been narrowly observing him as he read the placard , he was about to speak , when the shopkeeper called to a salesman : " John , show this gentleman the world . "
Ukraine 's Central Election Commission has declared Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the winner of Sunday 's disputed presidential election .
Authorities say the prime minister won more than 49 percent of the vote - nearly three percentage points ahead of opposition challenger Viktor Yushchenko .
The announcement Wednesday came as tens of thousands of protesters continued to mass in the capital , Kiev , alleging widespread fraud in the vote .
Crowds packed the Ukrainian capital 's main square , waving flags and chanting Mr. Yushchenko 's name .
Some have slept in tents , despite the cold and snow .
Protesters marched to the Election Commission following the announcement .
The European Union had warned of consequences in its relations with Ukraine if the results were announced before a review is conducted .
European and U.S. monitors allege widespread fraud in the vote .
The White House says it is disturbed about indications of wrongdoing .
The daughter of rhythm-and-blues legend Fats Domino says her father , who had been reported missing in New Orleans , had been rescued from the devastated city .
Karen Domino White said Thursday she identified her father in a photograph taken of him being evacuated from his home after the hurricane .
The 77-year-old entertainer had been reported missing Thursday by his long-time agent .
Fats Domino , whose real name is Antoine Domino , was born in New Orleans in 1928 .
He earned the nickname " Fats " after he wrote a song called The Fat Man .
Other hits include Blueberry Hill and Ai n't That a Shame .
He was one of the first inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
President Bush has appealed for Americans to be patient with the military mission in Iraq , as poll numbers continue to show most of the country does not approve of the president 's handling of the war .
Mr. Bush said in his weekly radio address Saturday that the effort in Iraq and the broader Middle East will require more time , sacrifice and continued resolve .
He praised the efforts of Iraqi leaders who are trying to agree on a constitution .
Iraqi lawmakers missed several deadlines this week for completing a draft constitution .
Mr. Bush also used his radio address to hail what he called Israel 's " courageous and painful " dismantling of Jewish settlements from Gaza and parts of the West Bank .
He urged Palestinians to now show the world they can fight terrorism .
South African Wesley Moodie has reached the second round of the Legg Mason Tennis Classic in Washington .
Moodie , ranked 86th in the world , needed four match points Monday to beat American Sam Querrey , 2-6 , 7-6 , 7-6 .
Moodie never managed a service break while Querrey fired 19 aces .
But Moodie won 10-percent more of his first-serve points to claim just his fifth win this year .
Moodie next faces French sixth-seed Sebastien Grosjean .
Kenneth Carlsen of Denmark advanced past Danai Udomchoke , 6-1 , 6-2 .
Carlsen will face another Thai opponent , 43rd-ranked Paradorn Srichaphan , in the second round .
American Kevin Kim ousted compatriot Scott Oudsema , 6-1 , 6-3 .
Kim next plays top-seeded American James Blake , who was the runner-up last year to compatriot Andy Roddick .
A car bomb exploded in central Baghdad Thursday , killing at least two people and wounding several others as insurgents continued their campaign of post-election violence .
Officials say the bomb , detonated by remote control , went off just after a U.S. military patrol vehicle passed by .
South of Baghdad , Iraqi police found the bodies of 20 truck drivers who had been shot dead .
Meanwhile , Iraq 's interim government said the country 's borders will be closed for five days from February 17 - apparently to boost security during the major Shi'ite Muslim religious observance of Ashura .
Wednesday , Iraq 's election commission said 300 ballot boxes from the January 30th vote need to be recounted and that it is not ready to announce the final results , which were expected today .
Global oil prices fell Monday as investors apparently interpreted the bankruptcy of a major U.S. investment bank as a signal that the global economy could slow down , cutting demand for oil .
Prices were also pushed down by reports that Hurricane Ike did only limited damage to key U.S. oil producing and refining facilities .
In electronic trading in New York , the price of oil for future delivery was down more than $ 7 , putting the price of a barrel of oil at $ 94.13 .
That is the lowest price since February , and a drop of one-third since the record-high recorded in July .
Another benchmark oil price , Brent crude , fell even lower .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says it will take up to 10 years to rebuild areas of southern Asia devastated by last week 's tsunami and earthquake .
Mr. Annan says the disaster is the largest the U.N. has ever dealt with .
The tsunami wreaked havoc from Malaysia to east Africa , leaving at least 127,000 dead .
Mr. Annan will head to south Asia later this week for a summit on relief efforts .
World leaders attending the conference in Jakarta , Indonesia , will also make an appeal for more aid .
The international community has pledged $ 2 billion so far .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell heads to the region today to inspect damage in Thailand and Indonesia .
He told NBC television the $ 350 million pledged by the United States may have have to be increased , saying the catastrophe is one of the worst the world has ever seen .
Officials in Nigeria say the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has spread to another state , bringing the total number of states now affected by the virus to 14 .
Health authorities say the strain has appeared in northeastern Taraba state .
The new outbreak means the virus is now present in more than one third of Nigerian states .
Nigeria was the first African country to be hit by bird flu .
Several other West African countries are also grappling with outbreaks of the disease , including Nigeria 's neighbors , Niger and Cameroon .
No human cases have been detected in the region , although the disease is believed to have killed more than 120 people around the world since 2003 .
The murder trial of Phil Spector was halted April 30 , when one of the defense attorneys sought medical attention .
Superior Court Judge Larry Paul Fidler did not provide a reason why Bruce Cutler consulted a physician , but told jurors that court would reconvene May 2 .
Spector , 67 , famous for his " Wall of Sound " production technique , is accused of fatally shooting actress Lana Clarkson in February , 2003 .
He met Clarkson at the House Of Blues in Hollywood , where she was a hostess .
Prosecutors allege Spector did not mean to murder the 40-year-old actress , but caused her death through reckless behavior .
U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz says some 15,000 U.S. troops who were deployed for Iraq 's election will soon return home , but 135,000 forces are expected to remain in Iraq .
Testifying Thursday before the Senate Armed Services committee , the deputy secretary said American troops and the proposed $ 80 billion in supplemental funding are focused on training Iraqi security forces .
Also during the hearing , Air Force General Richard Myers said there is not a good measure of how many of Iraq 's estimated 130,000 security forces are properly trained and equipped .
The general also said he could not publicly discuss the military 's estimate of the size of the insurgency in Iraq .
Haitian officials have said local and national elections will be held later this year .
An official on Haiti 's Provisional Electoral Council said local elections will be held on October 9 , followed by presidential and legislative polls on November 13 .
The dates were announced in an electoral decree recently sent to Haiti 's interim government .
Security for the election remains a concern .
Former soldiers and rebels who helped force Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide into exile in South Africa last February still control parts of the countryside .
Violence in Port-au-Prince 's pro-Aristide slums has killed more than 200 people in the last four months .
Portugal 's two biggest unions have launched a day of strikes to protest planned austerity measures .
The strikes Wednesday affected the transport sector , grounding flights and causing the cancelation of some bus and train services .
Banking services and other businesses , including an automotive plant were also affected .
Unions , representing both public and private sector workers , expected the stoppage to be the biggest in 20 years .
The government proposes to address a budget crisis by slashing spending , including wage cuts for public workers .
European Council President Herman van Rompuy said Tuesday Portugal does not need the kind of financial bailout the European Union is discussing with Ireland .
He said Portugal 's banks are well capitalized , and that the country has not experienced the type of housing market collapse that has affected other economies .
China has rushed a first batch of vaccine to the southwestern province of Sichuan , where a pig-borne disease has killed at least 34 people .
The Xinhua news agency reports that enough vaccine to treat Streptococcus suis bacteria in 350,000 pigs has been flown to the province .
Another 10 million doses are being manufactured and will be sent to affected areas .
Health authorities have identified 174 human cases - either confirmed or suspected - of the illness as of Saturday .
Most victims had handled either infected pigs or pork .
China says no human-to-human transmission of the ailment has been seen .
Two cases have been reported in Hong Kong , adjacent to Guangdong , but they are believed to be unrelated to the Sichuan outbreak .
Mexico City 's mayor , also seen as a leading presidential contender , has called for a mass campaign to keep adversaries from jailing him .
Mexico 's Congress is to decide in coming months whether to strip Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of immunity from prosecution enjoyed by public officials , and force him to face charges over a minor land-use case .
Mr. Lopez could be jailed and barred from running for president if found guilty .
Speaking at a news conference Friday , Mr. Lopez Obrador said he would keep fighting and would campaign from a jail cell if he had to .
It was his first explicit statement of his plans to replace President Vicente Fox when Mr. Fox 's final term finishes in 2006 .
The central-leftist mayor of the Party of the Democratic Revolution is widely popular in Mexico City for setting up welfare programs for the poor and the elderly .
Saudi Arabia and most Gulf Arab states have announced they will celebrate the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr on Friday to mark the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan .
Religious councils in Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Kuwait and other Arab states said the moon 's crescent was not sighted after nightfall Wednesday , meaning there will be one more day of fasting before the holy month comes to an end .
Muslims scan the sky at night in search of the new moon to proclaim the start of the month in Islam 's lunar calendar .
Like most major Islamic events , the start of the Eid festival depends on a lunar sighting .
The timing of Eid can vary in different countries accordingly .
Eid al-Fitr celebrates the purification achieved by a month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting , one of the five pillars of Islam , and is marked by several days of festivities .
Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah held talks with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf Saturday in the kingdom .
Official media in Saudi Arabia reported that the two met at a palace in Jeddah .
News media say the leaders and their delegations discussed ways to enhance cooperation between the two nations .
According to reports , King Abdullah also held a lunch party for General Musharraf and his delegation .
The Pakistani president said he was grateful for the hospitality .
Haitian and U.N. officials are appealing for calm following protests by Haitians who have demanded that front-runner Rene Preval be declared the winner of last week 's presidential election .
Preval is expected to address Haiti 's citizens later Tuesday in Port-au-Prince .
On Monday , protesters set up roadblocks , burned tires and stormed a hotel in Port-au-Prince .
At least one man was killed in the violence .
With 90 percent of votes counted , former President Preval has nearly 49 percent of the vote .
He needs to exceed 50 percent to win outright and avoid a runoff election .
Another former president , Leslie Manigat , is second with about 12 percent .
A State Department spokesman Monday said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Monday have discussed the importance of Haitian citizens respecting the election process .
U.S. theatergoers chose suspense over skating , as Disturbiaunseated Blades Of Glory for the U.S. box office championship .
The peeping tom thriller starring Shia LaBeouf and David Morse took in $ 23 million to debut at number one last weekend .
The real winner continues to be DreamWorks Pictures , distributor of both Disturbia and Blades Of Glory .
LeBeouf , who plays a teen under house arrest who suspects a neighbor of murder , is also on the upswing .
The 20-year-old actor has been confirmed to appear in the fourth Indiana Jones movie , set for worldwide release in May , 2008 .
He will also provide the lead voice for this year 's animated penguin comedy Surf 's Up , while starring in the science fiction adventure Transformers .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb in central Baghdad has killed at least 14 people and wounded at least 64 others .
They say a woman and a child are among the dead from Friday 's blast in a crowded market .
In other developments , the U.S. military says coalition forces killed five militants and detained 14 suspects during operations against al-Qaida in Iraq .
Officials say the raid in Muqdadiyah targeted individuals associated with a network involved in numerous engagements with coalition forces .
The military says coalition forces also conducted operations near Salman Pak , Samarra and Baghdad .
Europe 's top human rights watchdog has expanded its probe into the alleged secret international prison network run by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency .
The Council of Europe said it is investigating whether European airports were used by CIA aircraft transporting prisoners to secret detention centers .
The Council is already investigating the existence of alleged CIA prisons in European nations .
Separately , Austria Wednesday said an aircraft suspected of transporting CIA terrorist captives flew though its airspace in 2003 .
Austria 's Air Force Chief Major General Erich Wolf told Austrian radio that military jets scrambled to intercept the plane that took off from Germany but found nothing wrong and allowed it to proceed to Baku , Azerbaijan .
Press reports say the CIA has been holding and interrogating terrorist suspects at secret detention facilities in several countries abroad , circumventing U.S. laws protecting prisoners .
U.S authorities have refused either to confirm or deny the reports .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says international terrorism should be fought on two levels .
General Musharraf told the U.N. General Assembly Tuesday that apart from confronting terrorists , the international community should also resolve the conflicts afflicting the Islamic world .
He said unless those conflicts are resolved and suppression of Muslim peoples is ended , terrorism and extremism will continue to find recruits among alienated Muslims .
The Pakistani leader said it is also imperative to end what he called racial and religious discrimination against Muslims and to prohibit the defamation of Islam .
In an apparent reference to the controversy over Pope Benedict 's recent remarks about Islam , he said it is disappointing to see that personalities of high standing are oblivious of Muslim sensitivities .
In 1951 , the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old system of rule by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet system of government .
Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty democracy within the framework of a constitutional monarchy .
An insurgency led by Maoist extremists broke out in 1996 .
The ensuing ten-year civil war between insurgents and government forces witnessed the dissolution of the cabinet and parliament and assumption of absolute power by the king .
Several weeks of mass protests in April 2006 were followed by several months of peace negotiations between the Maoists and government officials , and culminated in a November 2006 peace accord and the promulgation of an interim constitution .
Following a nation-wide election in April 2008 , the newly formed Constituent Assembly declared Nepal a federal democratic republic and abolished the monarchy at its first meeting the following month .
The Constituent Assembly elected the country 's first president in July .
The Maoists , who received a plurality of votes in the Constituent Assembly election , formed a coalition government in August 2008 , but resigned in May 2009 after the president overruled a decision to fire the chief of the army staff .
The Communist Party of Nepal-United Marxist-Leninist and the Nepali Congress party then formed a new coalition government with several smaller parties .
The prime minister 's resignation in June 2010 ushered in seven months of political gridlock until Jhala Nath KHANAL was elected as replacement in February 2011 .
His pressing tasks are to conclude the drafting of a new constitution by the late May 2011 deadline and to determine the future of the former Maoist combatants .
Discovered in 1493 by Christopher COLUMBUS who named it for his brother Bartolomeo , Saint Barthelemy was first settled by the French in 1648 .
In 1784 , the French sold the island to Sweden , who renamed the largest town Gustavia , after the Swedish King GUSTAV III , and made it a free port ; the island prospered as a trade and supply center during the colonial wars of the 18th century .
France repurchased the island in 1878 and placed it under the administration of Guadeloupe .
Saint Barthelemy retained its free port status along with various Swedish appellations such as Swedish street and town names , and the three-crown symbol on the coat of arms .
In 2003 , the populace of the island voted to secede from Guadeloupe and in 2007 , the island became a French overseas collectivity .
The government of Senegal shut down the country 's leading radio station for most of the day Monday after it broadcast an interview with a separatist leader .
Nineteen employees of Sud FM were charged with violating national security laws following the airing of the interview with Salif Sadio , leader of the armed wing of the secessionist Democratic Forces Movement of Casamance .
In the interview , Mr. Sadio pledged to end what he called the Senegalese occupation of Casamance province .
Interior Minister Ousamane Ngom told state radio that he had ordered the station closed in the interest of national security .
Radio Sud staffers tell Voice of America 's French to Africa Service that other media outlets in Senegal plan to publish and broadcast the interview with Mr. Sadio on Tuesday .
Palestinian security forces have begun early voting for parliamentary candidates , in order to be free for duty during the official polling time next week .
Nearly 60,000 security personnel are eligible to vote through Monday .
They will be deployed in the Palestinian territories during Wednesday 's parliamentary elections .
The ruling Fatah party is facing stiff competition from its chief rival , the Islamic militant group Hamas , for the 132 seats in the Palestinian parliament .
A new Palestinian opinion poll shows Fatah with a seven-point lead over Hamas , while another survey puts the two groups in a virtual tie .
Hamas is taking part in the Palestinian legislative elections for the first time .
Israel 's Cabinet now says it will allow Arabs in East Jerusalem to vote for the Palestinian parliament , but will not permit candidates from Hamas to be on Jerusalem ballots .
Indian authorities say an explosion set off by Maoist rebels in central Chhattisgarh state has killed 13 civilians and wounded several others .
Local police say the incident took place late Friday south of the state capital , Raipur , and that the blast was most likely intended for security forces .
The Maoists have stepped up attacks on police and government supporters in the area in recent months .
Last week , they seized a train in neighboring eastern Jharkhand state , holding some 200 people on board at gunpoint for several hours before leaving .
The rebels say they are fighting on behalf of poor people and landless laborers .
Iraqi officials are still counting votes and verifying results from Saturday 's referendum , with partial results suggesting the draft constitution will be approved .
Iraq 's Independent Electoral Commission says it will take random samples from some provinces to examine for possible irregularities .
President Bush praised Iraqis for voting despite threats of insurgent attacks .
But U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan says it is too soon to say if the draft constitution will bring Iraq together or widen divisions between its Shi'te , Sunni and Kurdish communities .
In other developments , a U.S. airstrike killed 20 people the military says were planting roadside bombs near Ramadi .
Other coalition operations in Al Anbar province on Sunday killed what U.S. officials said were 50 more suspected terrorists .
But residents say half of the dead were civilians .
French counter-terrorism units have detained at least 10 people suspected of recruiting religious extremists and sending them as fighters in the insurgency in Iraq .
French authorities say four of the suspects were arrested Wednesday .
They are being held with at least six others detained Monday .
Authorities launched an investigation last year to determine if extremists are running a network in France recruiting Islamic militants to fight U.S. forces in Iraq .
French officials began the investigation last September after the deaths of a number of French Muslims there .
The French news agency , AFP , says intelligence agents believe between 15 and 30 French nationals are combatants who have joined insurgents in Iraq .
Four have been killed in clashes with U.S. forces .
The U.S. military in Iraq says it has detained seven suspects in Saturday 's rocket attack on the U.S. embassy in Baghdad .
Two Americans were killed and four others wounded in the attack .
A U.S. statement says the suspects were caught by U.S. troops in southeastern Baghdad about an hour after the strike , which was recorded by police surveillance cameras .
In other developments Sunday , The Washington Post newspaper says the Bush administration does not have a timetable for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq .
The report quotes U.S. officials as saying U.S. forces will leave only after Iraqi military units take the lead in combat operations .
A senior administration official also said a U.S. departure will be linked to a reduction in overall violence , once an elected Iraqi government is operational .
The report says commanders want to withdraw about 15,000 troops by the middle of this year .
Iraqi officials say Turkish warplanes have bombed targets in the Kurdish autonomous region of northern Iraq , wounding one civilian .
The officials say Turkey bombed the village of Sidakan near the Iranian border Saturday .
There was no immediate confirmation of the strike from the Turkish military .
Clashes between Turks and Kurds have increased since the Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , called off a yearlong cease-fire in June .
The group cited repeated Turkish military attacks for ending the truce .
The PKK is fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey , and has bases in northern Iraq .
Nepalese police have arrested a top opposition leader in the capital , Kathmandu , and Maoist rebels have opened fire at a busy marketplace in southern Nepal , wounding three people .
Officials in Bara district , where the Maoist attack took place Thursday , say the rebels fired indiscriminately .
They wounded a policeman , a journalist and a health worker .
At least 38 people have been killed in clashes between rebels and security forces over the past week .
Also Thursday , authorities stormed the home of the secretary-general of the Communist Party , Madhav Kumar Nepal , and took him away .
The arrest followed a raid on his home a day earlier by armed police who seized phones , communication equipment and documents .
Security forces placed Nepal under house arrest in mid-January during a government crackdown on opposition activists to prevent anti-government protests .
The pro-reunification party in Cyprus ' Turkish enclave has scored a strong victory in parliamentary elections , but not enough to gain an outright majority .
The Republican Turkish Party of Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat secured 44 percent of the vote in Sunday 's election , well ahead of its opponent , the National Unity Party of former Prime Minister Dervis Eroglu .
Mr. Talat , whose party won 24 of 50 seats in parliament , favors a United Nations plan to reunify the 30-year-old breakaway Turkish Cypriot enclave with the Greek Cypriot government .
Mr. Eroglu strongly opposes the UN plan .
Greek Cypriots rejected reunification last year , but were allowed to join the European Union under a complicated set of rules for the divided island .
Sunday 's vote was closely watched in Turkey , whose chances for EU membership hinge on resolution of the Cyprus dispute .
Iraqi officials say two Iraqi policemen and two civilians have been mistakenly killed by U.S. troops after a U.S. convoy was bombed south of Baghdad .
U.S. military officials have not commented on the incident , which the Iraqi Interior Ministry said occurred late Saturday in an area known as the triangle of death .
In a separate incident , U.S. authorities have expressed deep regret for the mistaken bombing Saturday of a house near the northern city of Mosul .
U.S. officials say five people were killed when U.S. airstrikes hit the wrong house .
Witnesses and journalists say 14 were killed .
U.S. officials say a probe is continuing .
Meanwhile , authorities say seven Ukrainians and a Kazakh soldier were killed Sunday while trying to detonate an ammunition cache southwest of the capital , in Wasit province .
Elsewhere , police in Samarra say assassins have gunned down the city 's deputy police chief in a drive-by shooting .
The Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small islands or reefs .
They are surrounded by rich fishing grounds and potentially by gas and oil deposits .
They are claimed in their entirety by China , Taiwan , and Vietnam , while portions are claimed by Malaysia and the Philippines .
About 45 islands are occupied by relatively small numbers of military forces from China , Malaysia , the Philippines , Taiwan , and Vietnam .
Brunei has established a fishing zone that overlaps a southern reef but has not made any formal claim .
Originally a Dutch colony in the 17th century , by 1815 Guyana had become a British possession .
The abolition of slavery led to black settlement of urban areas and the importation of indentured servants from India to work the sugar plantations .
This ethnocultural divide has persisted and has led to turbulent politics .
Guyana achieved independence from the UK in 1966 , and since then it has been ruled mostly by socialist-oriented governments .
In 1992 , Cheddi JAGAN was elected president in what is considered the country 's first free and fair election since independence .
After his death five years later , his wife , Janet JAGAN , became president but resigned in 1999 due to poor health .
Her successor , Bharrat JAGDEO , was reelected in 2001 and again in 2006 .
An independent Korean state or collection of states has existed almost continuously for several millennia .
Between its initial unification in the 7th century - from three predecessor Korean states - until the 20th century , Korea existed as a single independent country .
In 1905 , following the Russo-Japanese War , Korea became a protectorate of imperial Japan , and in 1910 it was annexed as a colony .
Korea regained its independence following Japan 's surrender to the United States in 1945 .
After World War II , a Republic of Korea ( ROK ) was set up in the southern half of the Korean Peninsula while a Communist-style government was installed in the north ( the DPRK ) .
During the Korean War ( 1950 - 53 ) , US troops and UN forces fought alongside soldiers from the ROK to defend South Korea from DPRK attacks supported by China and the Soviet Union .
An armistice was signed in 1953 , splitting the peninsula along a demilitarized zone at about the 38th parallel .
Thereafter , South Korea achieved rapid economic growth with per capita income rising to roughly 17 times the level of North Korea .
In 1993 , KIM Young-sam became South Korea 's first civilian president following 32 years of military rule .
South Korea today is a fully functioning modern democracy .
President LEE Myung-bak has pursued a policy of global engagement since taking office in February 2008 , highlighted by Seoul 's hosting of the G-20 summit in November 2010 .
Serious tensions with North Korea have punctuated inter-Korean relations in recent years , including the North 's sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan in March 2010 and its artillery attack on South Korean soldiers and citizens in November 2010 .
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari has demanded that Iran stop what he says is its shelling of Kurdish areas in northern Iraq .
Zebari , who was in Tehran for ministerial meetings Monday , said the cross-border shelling has displaced hundreds of Kurds and threatens Iraqi relations with Iran .
Iran 's deputy foreign minister , Mehdi Mostafavi , denied that Iranian forces have shelled Iraqi territory .
Last week , Zebari said his country had summoned the Iranian ambassador and delivered a formal note of protest over the cross-border attacks .
Zebari also acknowledged there are Kurdish rebels that move inside the border area in Iraq , but he said their presence does not justify the continued shelling .
Iran has accused Kurdish rebels of using Iraqi bases to launch attacks inside Iran .
The eldest daughter of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet is being questioned in Washington D.C. after fleeing Chile , where she has been charged with tax evasion .
U.S. Customs and Border officials say Lucia Pinochet is being interviewed at Washington 's Dulles International Airport after arriving from Argentina .
The charges she faces are related to a broader investigation of $ 27 million her father allegedly hid in foreign bank accounts .
General Pinochet also has been charged with tax fraud .
His wife and four other adult children were detained Monday on charges relating to the tax fraud probe .
They were freed on bail a day later .
The former dictator also faces human rights charges related to his rule in the mid-1970s .
Russian authorities say power has been fully restored to the Moscow region Thursday , a day after a massive blackout knocked out electricity to large parts of the Russian capital .
The blackout Wednesday left thousands of people stranded on subways , shut down the stock market , and forced hospitals to switch to emergency power .
Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko blamed the power outage on a fire and explosion at an energy substation .
President Vladimir Putin has accused the state-run power company ( Unified Energy Systems ) of negligence .
Meanwhile , prosecutors have opened a criminal case over the power outage , and say they plan to question the chairman of the power company , Anatoly Chubais , who is also one of Mr. Putin 's top political rivals .
The outage extended as far south as the Tula region , about 200 kilometers south of Moscow .
A top official at the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) says wealthy countries will need to start cutting spending and deal with huge national debts next year .
John Lipsky , the first deputy managing director of the IMF , said in a speech in China Sunday that stimulus spending remains appropriate in 2010 to push the global economic recovery .
But he says wealthy nations must cut spending , increase taxes and reform pensions and health entitlements to reduce debt in 2011 .
Lipsky says cutting stimulus measures put in place during the economic crisis will not be enough , because the stimulus programs account for only about one percent of rich countries ' gross domestic products .
He estimated that government debt will be higher than annual GDP in most advanced economies by 2014 , the highest debt-to-GDP ratio since the years after World War II .
Authorities are stepping up the pressure on New Orleans residents who have refused to leave the devastated city .
Thousands of police and National Guard troops are completing their efforts to evacuate all those who want to leave , and are now turning their attention to those who have not obeyed a mandatory evacuation effort .
Officials estimate that between 5,000 and 10,000 residents remain in New Orleans , despite contaminated floodwaters and several raging fires .
Authorities warn the death toll could reach into the thousands , although fewer than 200 bodies have been found so far .
Twenty-five thousand body bags have been provided for the clean-up operation .
Late Thursday President Bush signed a bill promising nearly $ 52 billion more in relief to victims of Hurricane Katrina .
The president has come under pressure for the slow federal response to the national disaster .
Afghan security forces have seized more than 15 tons of illegal drugs in a series of operations across the country .
The nation 's top drug enforcement official , Lieutenant General Mohammed Daoud Daoud said Saturday the seizures over the past 10 days included one ton of heroin .
He also is quoted by the French news agency as saying that more than a dozen men were arrested .
Daoud said the government is seeking to increase efforts to block cultivation of poppy and other drugs .
The United Nations has reported that opium production is up 60 percent this year in Afghanistan .
The world body says much of the proceeds of the illegal drug trade are funding insurgent activities and fueling political corruption .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy says France is willing to help Egypt develop nuclear power plants .
In an interview published Saturday in the Egyptian newspaper Al-Ahram , Mr. Sarkozy said France will cooperate and work together with Egypt if the Cairo government wants to develop civilians uses for nuclear technology .
Earlier this year , authorities in Cairo announced that Egypt intends to build several nuclear reactors to meet its future energy needs .
The French president has been vacationing in Egypt in advance of an official state visit he will begin on Sunday in Cairo .
Mobile phone maker Sony Ericsson has signed an $ 88 million deal to sponsor the Women 's Tennis Association tour .
The deal announced Wednesday is a six-year agreement , and gives the tour a global sponsor for the first time in two years .
Sony Ericsson will get to put its logos on nets at Tour events , starting Monday at the Sydney International tournament .
The season-ending event will now be called the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour championships .
The deal will also bring advanced technology to the women 's tour , including handsets for chair umpires that will allow match scores to go directly to the Internet .
Tournament prize money is not expected to increase this season as a result of the deal .
A series of discouraging reports on the U.S. economy has brought sharp criticism from the Democrat who heads a key economic committee .
Senator Charles Schumer said Friday reports showing a declining job market and record-high foreclosures are more evidence that the U.S. economy is headed for recession .
Schumer accuses the Bush administration of doing far too little to fend off the economic crisis .
White House spokesman Tony Fratto says the economy is in for a " difficult quarter , " but notes that the new stimulus plan is just getting underway .
He says it should restore economic growth .
Reports out of Burma say last week 's tsunami swept a seasonal fishing village of about 600 people out to sea , leaving 17 dead and scores of families destitute .
The French news agency , AFP , says most of the casualties were children playing on the beach when a three-meter wave crashed down on them and crushed village huts .
The village , 352 kilometers southwest of the capital of Rangoon , was built about a month ago for the post-monsoon fishing season .
The agency said 14 children and three women were killed when waves swept through the village .
The official New Light of Myanmar newspaper has raised Burma 's death toll to 59 after the bodies of three more victims were found .
The paper says three people are still missing .
The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by the [ British ] South Africa Company from 1891 until it was taken over by the UK in 1923 .
During the 1920s and 1930s , advances in mining spurred development and immigration .
The name was changed to Zambia upon independence in 1964 .
In the 1980s and 1990s , declining copper prices , economic mismanagement and a prolonged drought hurt the economy .
Elections in 1991 brought an end to one-party rule , but the subsequent vote in 1996 saw blatant harassment of opposition parties .
The election in 2001 was marked by administrative problems with three parties filing a legal petition challenging the election of ruling party candidate Levy MWANAWASA .
The new president launched an anticorruption investigation in 2002 to probe high-level corruption during the previous administration .
In 2006 - 07 , this task force successfully prosecuted four cases , including a landmark civil case in the UK in which former President CHILUBA and numerous others were found liable for more than USD 41 million .
MWANAWASA was reelected in 2006 in an election that was deemed free and fair .
Upon his abrupt death in August 2008 , he was succeeded by his Vice President Rupiah BANDA , who subsequently won a special presidential by-election in October 2008 .
Under President BANDA , the Task Force on Corruption was abolished , President CHILUBA and his wife were acquitted in their criminal cases , and the government declined to register the UK civil verdict .
Mexican officials have razed more than 30 abandoned dwellings in a border town known as a staging ground for migrants to cross illegally into the United States .
The demolitions in the town of Las Chepas , officially known as Josefa Ortiz de Dominguez , were the result of an agreement made last month between the governors of Mexico 's Chihuahua state and the U.S. state of New Mexico .
Chihuahua 's Jose Reyes Baeza and New Mexico 's Bill Richardson agreed to a plan to curb illegal immigration and drug smuggling across the Mexico-U.S. border .
A Chihuahua public safety official told Reuters news agency that the demolitions represent less than half the buildings in Las Chepas , which is home to at least 50 residents .
The U.S. Army is conducting a review of the reports it has given families on the deaths of soldiers killed in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Army officials announced on Friday that they are preparing to request that all unit commanders submit lists of their combat deaths so accounts of those deaths can be checked for accuracy .
Spokesmen said Friday that about 500 of some 1,700 Army deaths in Iraq and Afghanistan have been checked already , and only a tiny fraction were found to have inaccuracies .
The review follows the high-profile case of former professional football player Pat Tillman who was killed by friendly fire .
The Army initially told Tillman 's family that he died as the result of an enemy ambush .
Thousands of Ugandans turned out today for the official state funeral of the country ’s founding father and two-time president , Milton Obote .
The managing editor of the daily Monitor newspaper in Kampala , Peter Mwesige , says it was attended by government officials , political supporters and relatives of the former leader .
But he told VOA reporter Shaka Ssali that Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni was not there .
The day was not declared a national public holiday , which to some is a source of controversy .
Dr. Obote ’s coffin is now on a tour of several Ugandan towns .
On Monday he will be buried at his ancestral home in northern Uganda .
The 81-year-old leader died of kidney failure in South Africa last week .
He was toppled from power in 1985 and spent the rest of his life in exile in Zambia .
Former Iraqi President Abdel Rahman Aref , who was overthrown in a 1968 coup that brought Saddam Hussein 's Baath Party to power , has died in Jordan .
He was 91 .
Mr. Aref died Friday at a hospital in Amman .
He had lived in Jordan for the last three years .
Mr. Aref , who is survived by his wife and five children , became president in 1966 after his brother , who was president at the time , died in an aviation crash .
The brother was part of a 1958 military coup that overthrew the monarchy .
Mr. Aref was president for two years , until he was ousted in a Baathist Party coup .
He lived in exile in Turkey and eventually returned to Iraq .
He moved to Jordan in 2004 .
President Bush says he would consider using force to press Iran to give up its nuclear program , but only as a last resort .
Speaking from his Texas ranch in an interview with Israeli television broadcast Saturday , Mr. Bush said the United States and Israel agree that Iran must not be allowed to have a nuclear weapon .
When asked if that included the use of force , Mr. Bush said " all options are on the table " if diplomacy fails .
Iran angered Washington and the European Union by resuming uranium conversion this week after rejecting an EU offer of political and economic incentives in return for giving up its nuclear program .
Tehran says the program is only for peaceful purposes .
Europe and the United States have warned they will refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions if Tehran does not cooperate .
The U.S. military says the pilot of an American U-2 spy plane was killed when the plane crashed late Tuesday in southwest Asia .
Military officials have not specified the exact location of the crash , saying that " host nation sensitivities " are involved .
But officials say the plane went down as it returned to Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates .
The U-2s are assigned to the 380th Air Expeditionary Wing , which operates out of the base .
Central Command says the plane had just finished a mission for Operation Enduring Freedom - the name for U.S. operations in Afghanistan .
Officials say they do not believe the plane was brought down by hostile fire .
The U-2 is a high-altitude aircraft used for reconnaissance and surveillance .
U.S. President George Bush Tuesday thanked troops who are back from Iraq and Afghanistan , where he said , thanks to their sacrifices , " the forces of freedom and liberty will prevail . "
Mr. Bush addressed about 7,500 military personnel at Fort Campbell , in the central U.S. state of Kentucky two days before the Thanksgiving Day holiday .
About 10,000 Fort Campbell troops have returned from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq since October .
Others troops are scheduled to depart for the regions in the coming week .
Mr. Bush told the men and women that they have earned the thanks of every American for a " job well done . "
He credited the troops with taking the fight against terrorism overseas so that Americans do not have to face the threat at home .
U.S. economic forecasters say total losses from Hurricane Katrina 's devastation could top $ 100 billion .
In terms of insurance losses alone , industry forecasters say they are estimating payouts to be around $ 25 billion .
Insurance adjusters say they will have a clearer picture of the damage when they are able to enter New Orleans and other Gulf of Mexico coastal cities .
They say losses are likely growing by tens of millions of dollars each day in New Orleans as water damage becomes worse , sporadic fires continue to burn and looters ravage the city .
President Bush has signed a $ 10.5 billion emergency spending bill for the hurricane area , and said more relief will be needed .
He has also appointed his father , former President George Herbert Walker Bush , and former President Bill Clinton to coordinate private fundraising efforts .
The Sudanese government says it will stop flying Russian-made Antonov planes over the Darfur region where it has been accused of bombing villages .
Sudan 's Interior Minister Abdel Rahim Hussein told Reuters news agency ( Saturday ) the government would no longer use the aircraft , a move that follows last week 's request by the United Nations .
Top U.N. envoy Jan Pronk told Sudan 's government that civilians are fleeing their homes and villages whenever the planes fly over , and also fear the Antonovs are being used to coordinate ground attacks with Arab militia .
Government bombers and helicopter gunships have been reported over Darfur in recent weeks .
The Sudanese insist the Antonovs are being used for surveillance , not bombing .
Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the western Sudan region while nearly two million people have fled their homes .
India and Sri Lanka say peace talks with Tamil rebels should resume early in order to prevent the island nation from plunging back into civil war .
The call was made after visiting Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse met with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and briefed him about his government 's efforts to restart peace talks with Tamil Tiger rebels .
An Indian spokesman said both countries agreed about the need to strengthen the almost three-year-old ceasefire , which is becoming fragile .
Both the Tigers and the Sri Lankan government have agreed to hold talks , but the government insists they must take place in an Asian country , while the rebels want to hold them in Norway , which brokered a 2002 truce .
In New Delhi , Mr. Rajapakse is also holding talks on enhancing economic cooperation and trade relations with India .
Russia 's President Vladimir Putin has made more harsh comments about the Bush administration , accusing it of using what he calls a " nonexistent Russian threat " to get more defense spending from Congress .
Mr. Putin said during a visit to Jordan Tuesday that the administration has used the " Russian card " to address its political problems , including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , and for the deployment of a missile defense system .
He said he only expressed what many other countries also believe , when he complained last week about what he described as the almost uncontained use of U.S. military force .
The White House called his remarks disappointing .
Last week , U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates spoke to a congressional committee and identified Russia as a potential threat .
A published report says members of the commission that investigated the September 11 terrorist attacks have criticized the federal government for failing to act on many of the panel 's recommendations to prevent another terrorist attack .
The New York Times says members of the commission will release new , privately financed report on Thursday that is critical of the Bush administration and Congress .
Timothy Roemer , a former Democratic congressman and a member of the bipartisan panel , is quoted as saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation will be singled out for not carrying out promised reforms .
The Times says the White House is also criticized for not doing enough to defend civil liberties and privacy rights .
A United Nations war crimes court has increased a Roman Catholic priest 's sentence to life imprisonment for his role in Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
An appeals court for the International Criminal Court for Rwanda ruled Wednesday that an original sentence for Father Athanase Seromba of 15 years in prison was too lenient .
The priest was convicted by the court in 2006 on charges of genocide and extermination .
Prosecutors say the priest helped to orchestrate the slaughter of 2,000 ethnic Tutsis who sought shelter at his parish church .
Witnesses say the priest ordered militias to demolish the crowded church with bulldozers , and to kill anyone who survived the church 's collapse .
During Rwanda 's 1994 genocide , Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 minority Tutsis and Hutu moderates during the span of 100 days .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says two American soldiers have been charged with assaulting detainees at a coalition base in Uruzgan province .
A statement says the two soldiers allegedly punched two detainees on the chest , shoulders and stomach , but that neither detainee required medical attention .
The charges come 10 days after the U.S. military began an investigation into allegations that American soldiers burned the bodies of two Taleban fighters and used the act to taunt other fighters .
Australian television aired a video purportedly showing the soldiers burning the bodies of the fighters they had killed near the former Taleban stronghold of Kandahar .
Cremation of corpses is banned in the Islamic faith and the alleged desecration sparked outrage in Afghanistan .
The U.S. media seized on recent reports that high school girls in a Massachusetts town had made a pact to get pregnant and raise babies together .
Officials have rejected reports of a pregnancy pact , but the incident highlights concern among some adolescent health experts that the U.S. teen birth rate is starting to rise again .
Leta Hong Fincher has more on teen mothers and efforts to reduce teen pregnancy .
Thousands of Pakistani women have demonstrated in south-central Punjab province , calling for equal rights on International Women 's Day .
The rally in Multan Wednesday was being led by Mukhtaran Mai , a woman who gained international attention after she was gang-raped in 2002 on the orders of a tribal council , as punishment for her brother 's alleged affair .
Women also rallied against oppression in the southern city of Karachi .
In Afghanistan , President Hamid Karzai Wednesday called for an end to forced marriage and violence against women .
Speaking at a Women 's Day event , the president says women are still oppressed , despite strides toward gender equality since the Taleban was overthrown in 2001 .
The International Monetary Fund has proposed several structural reforms aimed at improving its ability to respond to crises in a rapidly changing global economy .
The proposed reforms include increasing the voice of emerging market countries in the Fund 's decision-making process .
The world 's lender of last resort also agreed to overhaul its economic surveillance mechanism .
The change could give the Fund more oversight in exchange-rate policies as well as broader powers in addressing regional trade disputes , such as the massive trade deficit between the United States and Asia .
The IMF 's 184 member countries is finishing spring meetings urging the leadership to develop concrete reform proposals for September 's meeting in Singapore .
On Friday , the World Bank approved full debt cancellation for some of the world 's poorest countries , including Bolivia , Ethiopia , Nicaragua and Rwanda .
The United Nations has condemned alleged abuses by American forces in Afghanistan , calling them " totally unacceptable " .
Asked about a report that U.S. troops allegedly burned the bodies of two Taleban fighters to taunt other fighters , a U.N. spokesman said such abuses are an affront to the work of the international community in Afghanistan .
The United Nations issued a similar statement in May amid claims of abuses of Afghan prisoners by U.S. forces .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has also condemned the purported burning incident and ordered an inquiry .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the alleged actions do not represent the overwhelmingly positive behavior of the U.S. military , adding he wants the U.S. military in Afghanistan to accelerate its own investigation .
A top U.S. official says " uncertainties " about how China will use its increasing power may inhibit its relations with other countries , including the United States .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick addressed the National Committee on U.S. - China Relations Wednesday in New York .
Mr. Zoellick praised the " constructive role " China played in hosting the recent six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program .
But he also encouraged China to be a responsible stakeholder in global affairs .
He said Beijing 's " lack of transparency " raises questions about the purpose of China 's rapid military modernization On trade , Mr. Zoellick said China should not take for granted its access to the U.S. market .
On democracy issues , Mr. Zoellick said China 's closed political system is " simply not sustainable . "
He said as economic growth continues , the Chinese people will want a greater say in their future .
Iran 's president says Tehran will never abandon its nuclear activities , but will continue talks , for now , on its nuclear program with the European Union and the International Atomic Energy Agency .
In an interview with a French newspaper , Le Figaro , President Mohammed Khatami said Iran is ready to consider any reasonable solution , but will not suspend its nuclear activities permanently .
He said the Europeans must understand that the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and other international agreements allow Iran to develop nuclear technology for peaceful purposes .
France , Germany and Britain , with U.S. support , are offering Iran economic incentives in exchange for its suspension of uranium enrichment activity .
The enrichment process , which makes fuel for civilian reactors , can also be used to make weapons grade material .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran denies the charge .
Officials in Nairobi say Somali pirates have released a vessel with its crew , after holding it for almost two months .
The Liberian-flagged chemical tanker Biscaglia with its crew of 25 Indians and three Bangladeshis was hijacked November 28 .
Three security guards jumped overboard shortly after the pirates overtook the vessel .
It was not immediately clear whether a ransom was paid for the release of the ship and its crew .
Pirates based in Somalia have made the waters off East Africa some of the most dangerous in the world .
An international coalition of warships patrols in the area off Somalia to prevent hijackings .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says his country could eventually remove more West Bank settlements than originally planned .
In an interview published Friday in Israeli newspaper Yediot Ahronot , Mr. Sharon was asked whether Israel would pull out of several small West Bank settlements in addition to the four already slated for withdrawal .
He responded that not everything would remain and said the issue would be raised during final status negotiations with the Palestinians .
He added that he has no regrets about his plan to evacuate about 8,500 Jewish settlers from 21 settlements in the Gaza Strip beginning Wednesday , despite fierce internal opposition .
Separately , the militant Palestinian group Hamas says it will not surrender weapons to the Palestinian Authority after Israel 's withdrawal , because its resistance against Israel 's occupation of Palestinian lands continues .
William C. Walbrecher Jr. , an executive at San Francisco-based 1st Nationwide Bank , was named president and chief executive officer of Citadel Holding Corp. and its principal operating unit , Fidelity Federal Bank .
The appointment takes effect Nov. 13 .
He succeeds James A. Taylor , who stepped down as chairman , president and chief executive in March for health reasons .
Edward L. Kane succeeded Mr. Taylor as chairman .
Separately , Citadel posted a third-quarter net loss of $ 2.3 million , or 68 cents a share , versus net income of $ 5.3 million , or $ 1.61 a share , a year earlier .
The latest results include some unusual write-downs , which had an after-tax impact of $ 4.9 million .
Those included costs associated with the potential Valley Federal Savings and Loan Association acquisition , which was terminated on Sept. 27 , 1989 .
In addition , operating results were hit by an increase in loan and real estate loss reserves .
In American Stock Exchange composite trading , Citadel shares closed yesterday at $ 45.75 , down 25 cents .
Nigeria 's former education minister and six legislators have been charged in one of the country 's most serious cases of high-level corruption .
All seven were charged in the High Court in Abuja with a string of offenses related to giving and receiving bribes .
They all pleaded not guilty .
Former education minister Fabian Osuji is accused of paying legislators , including then Senate President Adolphus Wabara , $ 400,000 to approve an inflated budget .
Mr. Osuji has admitted to paying the money .
He was fired last month by President Olusegun Obasanjo during a televised address to the nation .
Last week , the senate president resigned his post - the third highest ranking position in Nigeria 's government .
About 7,000 Hamas supporters have held a rally in Gaza City to mark the anniversary of the assassination of the group 's founder and send a warning to Israel .
Hamas spiritual leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin was killed in an Israeli air strike March 22 , last year .
Hamas leaders Friday vowed to resume attacks on Israel unless it accepts their demands for prisoner releases and other concessions .
A top Hamas official said he would participate in cease-fire talks scheduled next week in Egypt , but has not decided on whether the group will sign an agreement .
Some palestinian militants have been observing a " cooling off " period with Israel that was agreed to during a recent summit in Sharm el-Sheik , Egypt .
A senior Iranian official has warned countries opposed to Tehran 's nuclear program that they will face retaliation if sanctions are imposed on Iran .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator , Ali Larijani , issued the warning in comments to reporters in Tehran Friday .
Larijani said Western nations will face " painful " measures if the United Nations Security Council imposes sanctions on Iran for its nuclear program .
The permanent U.N. Security Council members plus Germany are trying to reach agreement on a sanctions resolution .
Iran ignored an August 31st UN deadline to suspend uranium enrichment .
The U.S. and its western allies believe Iran 's enrichment activities are part of a program to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is to produce energy , not weapons .
The European Union is expected to review credit rating companies after allegations that they were too slow to warn of problems with the U.S. home loan businesses .
French President Nicholas Sarkozy has urged the group of seven industrialized nations to better monitor international financial markets in the face of global credit concerns .
His appeal in a letter to German Chancellor Angela Merkel was made public Thursday as the French stock market dropped to its lowest level this year .
Critics have accused credit rating firms , including Moody 's Investors Service and Standard and Poor 's , of underestimating the risk in the sub-prime mortgage market .
Defaults on sub-prime loans , or those made to people with poor credit , have risen sharply in the United States in recent months .
The problem has begun to affect banks and financial companies elsewhere in the world .
Swedish police have ordered artist Lars Vilks out of his own home telling him it is no longer safe for him to live there .
The head of al-Qaida in Iraq , Abu Omar al-Baghdadi , says he will pay as much as $ 150,000 to anyone who can kill Vilks because of what he calls offensive pictures of the Muslim Prophet Momammad .
Vilks says police have told him that the threats on his life are very serious .
He says he was only allowed to return to his house in Stockholm to pick up a few items .
A Swedish newspaper last month printed Vilks ' cartoon of Mohammad 's head on a dog 's body .
Vilks received support of the press freedom group Reporters Without Borders Monday , saying what it calls barbaric fundamentalism can not take away the freedom to draw cartoons .
It says offering a reward for Vilks ' death shows a shocking lack of humanity .
A CERTAIN HUNTER , having snared a hare , placed it upon his shoulders and set out homewards .
On his way he met a man on horseback who begged the hare of him , under the pretense of purchasing it .
However , when the Horseman got the hare , he rode off as fast as he could .
The Hunter ran after him , as if he was sure of overtaking him , but the Horseman increased more and more the distance between them .
The Hunter , sorely against his will , called out to him and said , " Get along with you ! for I will now make you a present of the hare . "
Colombia 's largest rebel group says it will release two hostages on Saturday .
In a statement Wednesday , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , said it will fulfill a promise to release police officers Luis Almanza Patron and Carlos Alberto Logarda .
The statement said the two men will be handed over to the Red Cross and presidential candidate Alvaro Leyva in Putumayo department , near Colombia 's border with Ecuador .
The police officers were captured in a FARC offensive late last year .
The rebels also have a group of nearly 60 hostages they want to exchange for hundreds of rebel fighters jailed by Colombian authorities .
But the administration of President Alvaro Uribe has shown no willingness to make such a swap .
The Egyptian Health Ministry says a 15-year-old girl has died of bird flu , the second such death in as many days .
The ministry says the girl died Monday after contracting the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The girl was apparently from the same family as a 30-year-old woman who died of bird flu on Sunday .
Two members of the woman 's family had also been diagnosed with bird flu .
A regional official of the World Health Organization said the woman had been hospitalized in mid-December but was only tested for the deadly form of the flu in the last few days .
He said she initially did not tell health officials that she lived in close contact with ducks .
Nine Egyptians have now died from bird flu since it was first detected in Egyptian poultry in February .
Many poor Egyptians live in close contact with chickens and ducks that they raise for their own consumption .
A Nigerian military aircraft carrying at least 12 people has crashed in the southeast part of the country .
Military officers are among those who were on board .
Some on the plane are believed to have survived the crash .
The air force plane was flying from Nigeria 's capital , Abuja , to Obudu near Nigeria 's southeast border with Cameroon .
The U.S. military says seven U.S. Marines have been killed in action in western Iraq .
A spokesman says six of the troops were killed Monday in the town of Haditha , near the Syrian border , but he did not give details .
The seventh Marine also died on Monday , in a car bomb blast in Hit , about 70 kilometers southeast of Haditha .
Earlier this week , the U.S. military reported killing 11 insurgents during fighting in Haditha .
Elsewhere , Iraqi police say some civilians were killed when a car bomb targeting a U.S. military convoy exploded Tuesday in central Baghdad .
More than 20 people were also wounded in the explosion .
There were no reports of U.S. casualties .
Also in Baghdad , Iraqi police say gunmen killed the head of the Abu Ghraib police station , Mizhir Hamad Yousi .
His driver was wounded in the attack .
American pop star Madonna has visited an orphanage in Malawi for children who have lost their parents to the AIDS epidemic .
Several orphans sang to the music star at the home near the city of Blantyre Thursday .
Madonna handed out copies of her children 's book , The English Roses , which had been translated into Malawi 's main language .
The singer arrived in the southern African country on Wednesday , in part to inspect a large orphan care center she is funding near the capital , Lilongwe .
Government officials have said Madonna also is using the trip to adopt a boy from Malawi .
But a spokesperson for Madonna , Liz Rosenberg , denied the reports .
She added the singer hopes publicity surrounding her trip will draw attention to the plight of Malawi 's estimated one million AIDS orphans .
The World Health Organization estimates that at least 17 million people die every year from cardiovascular disease .
Because heart related illnesses are often diagnosed in people who are overweight or obese , treatment can be complicated .
But as VOA 's Melinda Smith reports , a drug used for weight loss is showing promise for some heart patients .
Scientists at the U.S. space agency , NASA , have unveiled dramatic photographs of a huge crater on Mars taken by the roving surface probe Opportunity .
On Friday , Opportunity sent back its first color panorama of Victoria , the 800-meter-wide Martian crater the rover reached last week after a 21-month trek .
NASA scientists told reporters Friday the sharp images of rock formations and soil layers open a window on the past of the planet .
They say Victoria 's exposed rock layers could help reveal the mystery of whether life existed on Mars .
NASA also displayed new photos taken by the Mars Reconnaissance satellite orbiting overhead , that included pictures of Victoria Crater and the Opportunity rover .
NASA researchers say they will use the photographs to plot the best route for the six-wheeled rover to descend into the crater .
Togo 's new President Faure Gnassingbe has visited his counterpart in Gabon , amid intense international pressure on the Togolese leader to step down .
Mr. Gnassingbe said he went to Gabon Thursday to seek advice from President Omar Bongo , calling him a wise man and brother .
The Togolese leader then left for talks with Libyan officials in Tripoli .
Meantime , the African Union postponed a meeting Thursday to discuss the crisis in Togo until Friday .
The AU 's Peace and Security Council is expected to consider sanctions against the West African country to pressure Mr. Gnassingbe to step down .
The bloc has suspended Togo , accusing the country 's military of staging a coup to install Mr. Gnassingbe , after his father 's death this month .
Monday , Togo 's parliament ordered new presidential elections in 60 days , while allowing Mr. Gnassingbe to remain in office .
A United Nations war crimes court has sentenced a former Rwandan administrator to 25 years in prison for his role in the country 's 1994 genocide .
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda , based in Tanzania , found Dominique Ntawukulilyayo guilty of genocide .
Court prosecutors say Ntawukulilyayo , who was deputy administrator of Rwanda 's southern Gisagara district , transported soldiers to an area where thousands of Tutsis had taken refuge , leaving the soldiers to carry out a mass slaughter .
Ntawukulilyayo was arrested in France in 2007 and later transferred to the U.N. detention facility in Arusha to face charges .
Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus during the 1994 Rwandan genocide .
The U.N. tribunal was set up to prosecute those who organized the killings .
The court has convicted about 40 people so far , while about 30 suspects are either being tried or awaiting trial .
The United Nations counter-narcotics chief says Afghanistan has reduced the production and cultivation of opium for the first time since the Taleban regime fell in 2001 .
Antonio Maria Costa says land devoted to growing opium poppies was down 21 percent over the past year .
But good weather made remaining fields more bountiful , and the harvest declined just 2.4 percent .
The UN officials says he is pleased to credit the drop to farmers ' restraint - a crucial element in controlling the drug production and trafficking problem .
But he says Afghanistan remains the world 's biggest producer of opium , the basis of heroin .
After US-led forces toppled the fundamentalist Taleban nearly four years ago , opium production in Afghanistan surged .
The international community has donated millions of dollars for drug eradication efforts .
The U.N. human rights chief says Sudanese authorities are restricting press freedoms and making arbitrary arrests , as a referendum approaches on the independence of south Sudan .
Navi Pillay said it is important the referendum is free and fair , calling it a critical moment in Sudan 's history .
She urged the governments of Sudan and south Sudan to quickly halt efforts to intimidate voters or taint the result of the referendum , which begins on Sunday .
Nearly 4 million southern Sudanese are registered to vote in the referendum , which will allow voters to secede or remain united with the north .
The vote is expected to split Africa 's largest country in two .
The referendum is the centerpiece of the 2005 peace deal that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war .
Two spectators were injured Thursday at a parade in New York when a huge balloon went out of control , knocking part of a lamp post down on the victims .
A woman , 26 , and a girl , 11 , were taken to a hospital for treatment .
The wayward balloon was part of the Macy 's Thanksgiving Parade , an American tradition since 1924 .
The Macy 's parade features many huge balloons , which are made to resemble cartoon characters and are guided down the streets by dozens of people hanging onto ropes .
It is the second such recent accident for the parade .
Back in 1997 , a balloon seriously injured a woman when a " Cat in the Hat " balloon was caught by high winds and knocked over a lamppost .
A private Chinese company plans to build the country 's first oil pipeline to Russia .
Chinese state media say the planned 30-kilometer project announced Wednesday will link railway lines between Heihe in China 's northeast Heilongjiang province and the eastern Russian city of Blagoveshchensk .
The two cities are the closest along the borders of the two countries , separated by the Heilongjiang River in China - known as the Amur River in Russia .
The $ 64 million project is expected to be operational in September 2006 , and will carry 21 million barrels of oil per year .
It is the latest project to help Beijing as it looks for alternatives to Middle East oil .
South Africa says two of its citizens were abducted this week in Nigeria 's volatile , oil-rich Niger Delta region .
The South African Foreign Affairs Ministry says its officials in Nigeria are doing everything they can to secure the hostages ' release .
It says the victims were kidnapped Tuesday .
It is not clear who carried out the abduction .
Gunmen in the Niger Delta regularly attack oil company facilities and kidnap their staff .
Most hostages are released unharmed .
Some attackers are militants who say they are fighting so the region 's impoverished residents get a greater share of the oil wealth .
Others are gangs motivated by the ransom companies pay for the hostages .
A surge in the unrest that began in late 2005 has resulted in Nigeria 's oil production dropping by about 25 percent .
Militants in Nigeria 's oil-rich Niger Delta region say they have killed three soldiers in a clash near a major natural gas plant .
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta made the announcement in an e-mail statement Saturday .
The group says it seized a military boat as well as weapons and ammunition during Thursday 's encounter .
An Army spokesman says three soldiers went missing near Soku , but says at this time , there is no confirmation of them being killed .
Militants groups are demanding greater autonomy for the Delta region .
They have carried out several attacks and kidnapped foreign oil workers in recent months .
Militants are still holding three hostages , two Americans and a Briton .
Iran 's intelligence minister says authorities have arrested members of a group which allegedly carried out an attack in northwestern Iran on Wednesday that killed 12 people .
Heidar Moslehi did not publicly identify the group Thursday .
However , he said those responsible for what he called " this terrorist attack " had targeted " unity " between Shi'ites and Sunnis in the region .
The bombing in the town of Mahabad came during a military parade marking the 30th anniversary of the start of the Iran-Iraq War .
Officials say at least 70 others were injured in the blast .
No group has claimed responsibility .
Local officials blamed Kurdish separatists .
But a leading Kurdish faction condemned the bombing .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has announced he is formally endorsing the presidential bid of his longtime rival , Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy .
The interior minister is the leader of the conservative ruling party , the Union for a Popular Movement .
Monday 's endorsement of Sarkozy by the prime minister comes a day after President Jacques Chirac announced his retirement .
Mr. Chirac has not endorsed a candidate for next month 's election .
In addition to Sarkozy , the two other main candidates vying to succeed Mr. Chirac are Socialist leader Segolene Royal and centrist leader Francois Bayrou .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian briefly joined a massive rally Saturday in Taipei to protest China 's threat to use force against the island if it formally declares independence .
Speaking to more than 100,000 protesters , Mr. Chen told the crowd that Taiwan is an independent , sovereign state .
He said the island 's future should not be decided by China .
Demonstrators chanted slogans such as " Loving Peace , Opposing Missiles , " and " Oppose Annexation . "
The rally comes amid this week 's one-year anniversary of China 's approval of an anti-secession law .
The law says China will employ " non-peaceful means " to prevent Taiwan 's independence if efforts at peaceful reunification fail .
Mr. Chen angered Beijing last month when he decided to stop funding a unification council and scrap guidelines for reunification with China .
China and Taiwan split in 1949 after a civil war , but Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province .
Defending World Cup football champion Brazil has defeated Croatia , 1-0 , in the opening match for both teams in Germany .
Kaka scored in the 44th minute Tuesday for the only goal of the Group F game in Berlin .
Earlier in Group G , South Korea defeated Togo , 2-1 , in Frankfurt while France and Switzerland played to a scoreless draw in Stuttgart .
South Korea battled back from 1-0 half-time deficit for a 2-1 win that sent the Asian side to the top of the group standings with three points .
Togo captain Jean-Paul Abalo was sent off in the 53rd minute after receiving his second yellow card .
Lee Chun-soo and Ahn Jung-hwan scored for South Korea .
The Swiss and French teams sputtered to their third draw in as many encounters .
Separatist politicians from Indian Kashmir are making an unprecedented trip to Pakistani Kashmir for talks on the disputed region 's future .
The officials from Indian Kashmir 's main separatist political alliance , the All Parties Hurriyat Conference , are using the recently launched bus service between the two regions .
They plan to meet with leaders of Pakistani Kashmir and Pakistan-based rebel groups which have been involved in a violent insurgency in Indian Kashmir for the past 15 years .
The Hurriyat alliance seeks an independent Kashmir .
But its hard-line pro-Pakistani splinter group has rejected the invitation , accusing Islamabad of diluting its stand over Kashmir and appeasing New Delhi .
India has previously denied permission to Hurriyat leaders to visit Pakistan , saying the Kashmir dispute is India 's internal matter .
The oil company Royal Dutch Shell says one of its key oil terminals in Nigeria can not honor its export contracts due to security problems .
The company issued a statement Thursday saying security concerns have prevented workers from repairing pipeline leaks at the Bonny terminal in the West African nation .
Shell says it will not be able to meet orders for 130,000 barrels of light crude oil per day through March .
Shell invoked a contractual provision that lifts delivery obligations in case of events out of the company 's control .
Armed attacks and kidnappings by rebels in the Niger Delta have disrupted oil production over the past two years and reduced by a quarter regular oil output of 2.5 million barrels per day .
A senior Afghan intelligence official says a military aircraft crashed in the country 's northern region Thursday .
Provincial intelligence chief Abdul Majid Azimi says the aircraft went down in the mountains of Afghanistan 's Baghlan province .
He says it is unclear if the aircraft involved is a helicopter or a plane or to whom it belonged .
A spokesman for NATO 's international coalition in Afghanistan ( International Security Assistance Force or ISAF ) says there were no immediate reports of a crash involving any of its aircraft .
Doctors and other trained professionals can face steep challenges when they move to the United States and pursue their careers .
License requirements and added education can make it a difficult transition .
VOA 's Brian Wagner reports on a program in Florida that helps immigrant physicians find new careers in U.S. hospitals .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says India will allow leaders of Kashmir 's main separatist political alliance to visit Pakistan for talks on the disputed region 's future .
Pakistan has invited an alliance of about two dozen Kashmiri separatist groups known as the All Parties Hurriyat Conference to visit on June 2 .
India has previously denied permission to Hurriyat leaders to visit Pakistan , saying the Kashmir dispute is India 's internal matter .
But in an interview with the Daily Times published Tuesday , General Musharraf speaks of a breakthrough , saying this time Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has allowed Hurriyat leaders to travel to Pakistan .
He said once they talk to Pakistan and then India , there will be a trilateral arrangement going .
There has been no word from New Delhi .
General Musharraf met the Kashmiri separatist leaders last month during his visit to New Delhi .
Israeli police investigating a money-laundering scheme have arrested 22 employees of the country 's largest bank .
Authorities say the employees of Bank Hapoalim helped customers transfer hundreds of millions of dollars without filing the reports required by Israeli law .
Police say the arrested employees all worked at the same branch in Tel Aviv .
While no customers have yet been arrested , they say the case involves many individuals and companies overseas .
In a news conference Sunday , France was the only foreign country named by police as working with investigators .
Authorities say their year-long investigation involves 80 bank accounts and 170 customers .
A spokesman for Bank Hapoalim said the bank has ordered its employees to cooperate fully with police .
A human rights group says tens of thousands of women and girls in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo have been raped by armed groups on both sides of the conflict .
U.S.-based Human Rights Watch says government soldiers and rebel forces have sexually assaulted females on a daily basis since fighting broke out in 1998 .
But the group says only a handful have been prosecuted for the crimes .
Human Rights Watch says many more incidents of rape have probably gone unreported in the Congo .
Britain says a raid by multinational forces in Iraq has freed three Western Christian aid workers who had been held hostage by Muslim militants since November .
The announcement of the release of the two Canadians and one Briton has been made in London by British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw .
" This is wonderful news for the family and it 's a huge tribute to the professionalism of the multinational forces and the Iraqi forces that they 've been able to achieve this result , " he said .
Straw says 74-year-old Norman Kember of Britain is in reasonable condition after the raid .
However , he says , Canadian citizens James Loney and Harmeet Singh Sooden have required hospital treatment .
A fourth hostage , American Tom Fox , was found shot to death on March 10 .
All four men had been kidnapped in November by a Muslim militant group called the Swords of Righteousness Brigade .
United Nations humanitarian agencies say they are searching for a new route into southern Lebanon to help war refugees , after Israel imposed an indefinite ban on movement in the region .
A spokeswoman for the U.N. World Food Program , Christiane Berthiaume , said Tuesday relief agencies are looking for alternative ways to provide aid to Lebanese civilians cut off by heavy fighting .
Aid officials say road transport is too dangerous after the Israeli military warned it would strike any vehicle traveling south of the Litani River on suspicion of transporting weapons .
The U.N. spokeswoman said there are hundreds of thousands of people who need aid in Lebanon .
The World Food Program has brought 404 tons of food into the region , but she said that is not enough .
Lebanese security officials say Syria has completed the first phase of its troop withdrawal from Lebanon .
The announcement comes amid U.S. , European and Lebanese opposition demands for an end to Syria 's three-decade military presence in Lebanon .
A senior Lebanese security official told Reuters news agency all Syrian troops and intelligence officers in Lebanon had pulled back either to the Bekaa Valley in eastern Lebanon or had crossed back into Syria .
Syria began the re-deployment of its 14-thousand troops in Lebanon on March 8th , after coming under international pressure to withdraw following the February 14th assassination of former prime minister Rafik Hariri in Beirut .
Meanwhile , a top Lebanese security chief says he and other security officials are willing to stand trial to clear them of any allegations of involvement in the assassination .
Israel forces say they killed a Palestinian militant in the Gaza Strip during a gunbattle early Friday .
The army says three Palestinians began firing missiles and small arms at Israeli soldiers from an abandoned building near the Gaza settlement of Kfar Darom .
As Israeli forces returned fire , two of the militants escaped , but an army spokesman says the third man was killed .
Three militant groups , Hamas , the Popular Resistance Committees and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigade , say they were involved in the attempt to infiltrate the Jewish settlement .
Today 's clash further strained a shaky three-month cease-fire .
Hamas and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigade have pledged to respect the truce , but both groups say they are determined to avenge Israel 's recent military actions in Gaza .
The Israeli military has been ordered Thursday to use all means necessary to suppress Gaza militants ' attacks on Jewish targets .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has nominated a veteran executive to head the country 's all-important oil ministry , after his first three nominees failed to gain the backing of parliament .
In a televised session of parliament Sunday , the president named career oil official Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh to the post .
Lawmakers are to vote on the nominee next week .
Mr. Ahmadinejad 's first three nominees - a politician , a Revolutionary Guards commander and an architect - were widely criticized for their lack of oil experience .
Two were rejected by parliament , and a third withdrew his nomination .
Analysts say the months-long dispute has shaken investor confidence and hurt the Iranian economy , which derives 80 percent of its revenues from oil exports .
British anti-terror police have arrested six Muslim men in a series of London raids , on suspicion of raising funds for terrorists and inciting others to commit acts of terrorism .
One of the suspects , identified as radical Muslim Abu Izzadeen , was widely known in Britain for heckling Home Secretary John Reid last year in a televised public meeting .
A spokesman , Anjem Choudary , for the banned Islamic militant group al-Ghurabaa confirmed Izzadeen 's arrest Tuesday .
Izzadeen , a Muslim convert and former electrician , was arrested and released on bail earlier this year in a separate case alleging that he encouraged terrorism .
Police say the suspects , aged between 21 and 35 , are in custody at a London police precinct .
Authorities also say other searches in connection with the probe are ongoing .
A Moroccan court has sentenced to death two radical Islamists convicted of leading a terror cell .
Prosecutors say the two , Toufik Hanouichi and Mohcine Bouarfa , led a group that killed several Moroccans , including a Moroccan Jew .
Four people arrested with them were given life sentences .
Another 31 cell members were given prison terms of one to 20 years , and nine were acquitted .
Most of the terror cell members were arrested in January , 2004 , during a massive police operation in the towns of Meknes and Fez .
Morocco has not carried out a death sentence in more than a decade .
World oil prices declined slightly Wednesday after the Bush administration said it will release crude oil from a national reserve to ease disruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina .
U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman told television interviewers the oil will be loaned to refiners who need it .
The U.S. government 's Strategic Petroleum Reserve has nearly 700 million barrels of crude oil in underground salt caverns - enough to meet U.S. demand for about one month .
World oil prices surged to a record $ 70.85 a barrel Tuesday as investors worried that hurricane damage will curtail U.S. crude oil , gasoline , and heating oil production .
Prices fell below $ 70 after the announcement .
The loan of crude oil will help some refineries continue production .
But analysts say the industry still has to get storm affected refineries back to the work of converting crude oil to gasoline and heating oil .
Former Iranian President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani is in Iraq for talks on boosting political , religious and economic ties .
Mr. Rafsanjani , who heads the influential Expediency Council , arrived Monday in Baghdad and met with Iraqi President Jalal Talabani .
Mr. Talabani was in Iran last week , as the two former foes rebuild their ties following the ouster of Iranian arch-rival , former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein .
Mr. Talabani was seeking Iranian investment in his country , devastated in the years since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 .
Washington has expressed concern about increasing ties between the two Shi'ite-majority neighbors .
It has accused Tehran of supporting anti-U.S. militants in Iraq , a charge Iran denies .
The U.S. State Department has announced that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will depart Saturday for a tour of three Persian Gulf nations to promote political reform and discuss regional security concerns .
The five-day visit will include stops in the United Arab Emirates , Oman and Qatar .
A state department official says Clinton will meet with government officials to discuss " a full-range of regional and bilateral issues . "
In Qatar , Clinton is to participate in the seventh Forum for the Future , a U.S.-backed effort for political reform in the Middle East .
It will be Clinton 's second trip to the Gulf in as many months .
She participated in a global security conference in Bahrain in early December .
Indian officials say four chickens have tested positive for the H5 bird flu virus in western India , but it was unclear whether they had the deadly H5N1 strain .
The outbreak is in the state of Maharashtra , the scene of India 's first outbreak of bird flu last month .
Officials say four villages in Jalgaon district in the northern part of the state were affected by the latest outbreak .
Jalgaon is one district away from Nandurbar , where India reported the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu last month .
Hundreds of thousands of chickens were destroyed in the town of Navapur and neighboring areas after that outbreak , and last week authorities said they had contained the virus there .
Officials say chickens in the Jalgaon area will also be culled .
Former world indoor triple-jump champion Ashia Hansen of Britain has announced her retirement after failing to recover from a knee injury in time for next month 's Beijing Olympics .
The 36-year-old American-born Hansen had been expected to be a gold medal contender at the 2004 Athens Olympics .
But she missed those Games after suffering a knee injury at the 2004 European Cup final .
Hansen set the former indoor world record of 15.16 meters at the European Championships in 1998 .
She had hoped to compete at the British Olympic trials in Birmingham this weekend , but decided she was not fit enough to do so .
Hansen said it had become clear to her that she could " no longer train through the pain of injury " as she used to .
She added that it was time to take the pressure off herself and that she had few complaints after the achievements in her career .
Bahrain is one of the most diversified economies in the Persian Gulf .
Highly developed communication and transport facilities make Bahrain home to numerous multinational firms with business in the Gulf .
As part of its diversification plans , Bahrain implemented a Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) with the US in August 2006 , the first FTA between the US and a Gulf state .
Bahrain 's economy , however , continues to depend heavily on oil .
Petroleum production and refining account for more than 60 % of Bahrain 's export receipts , 70 % of government revenues , and 11 % of GDP ( exclusive of allied industries ) .
Other major economic activities are production of aluminum - Bahrain 's second biggest export after oil - finance , and construction .
Bahrain competes with Malaysia as a worldwide center for Islamic banking and continues to seek new natural gas supplies as feedstock to support its expanding petrochemical and aluminum industries .
Unemployment , especially among the young , is a long-term economic problem Bahrain struggles to address .
In 2009 , to help lower unemployment among Bahraini nationals , Bahrain reduced sponsorship for expatriate workers , increasing the costs of employing foreign labor .
The global financial crisis caused funding for many non-oil projects to dry up and resulted in slower economic growth for Bahrain .
Other challenges facing Bahrain include the slow growth of government debt as a result of a large subsidy program , the financing of large government projects , and debt restructuring , such as the bailout of state-owned Gulf Air .
The Vatican says Pope John Paul 's condition has worsened .
The Vatican Friday said the pontiff 's breathing has become shallow , he is facing kidney problems , and his respiratory and circulatory difficulties have increased .
Earlier , spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said the pope received Vatican officials in his apartment and asked for scriptures to be read .
He also celebrated Mass .
Cardinal Camillo Ruini celebrated a public Mass in Rome Friday for the pope .
Officials Friday also announced the appointment of a number of bishops and other church officials .
The Vatican said Thursday the pontiff suffered a " cardio-circulatory collapse " after developing a high fever from a urinary tract infection .
Officials said the pope was informed of the gravity of his situation , but wanted to remain at his apartment in the Vatican .
He underwent a procedure in February to ease breathing difficulties .
Pope Benedict XVI waves from his studio 's window overlooking St. Peter 's Square during the Angelus prayer
Pope Benedict has called on the terrorists responsible for last week 's London bombings to , in his words , " stop in the name of God . "
Speaking at the Vatican Sunday , the pontiff urged the faithful to pray not only for the London victims and their families , but also for the attackers .
The pope said he hopes God will touch their hearts .
In comments directed at the terrorists , Benedict said , " God loves life , which he created , not death . "
Benedict made his plea following his weekly blessing in St. Peter 's Square .
On the day of the London transport system bombings , the German-born pope condemned the attacks as " barbaric acts against humanity . "
Polish President Lech Kaczynski has invited his Russian counterpart Dmitri Medvedev to this month 's 65th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi death camp , Auschwitz .
President Kaczynski 's office confirmed the invitation in a statement on his Web site .
The move is being seen as an effort to improve ties with Russia .
More than one million people died at the Auschwitz camp in southern Poland - most of them Jews - before it was liberated by Soviet troops on January 27 , 1945 .
The camp was part of a network set up by Nazi Germany during World War II to exterminate Jews and anyone else it considered undesirable .
The anniversary commemoration at the camp site , which is now a museum , is expected to draw a range of foreign officials .
Oil-rich Nigeria has been hobbled by political instability , corruption , inadequate infrastructure , and poor macroeconomic management but in 2008 began pursuing economic reforms .
Nigeria 's former military rulers failed to diversify the economy away from its overdependence on the capital-intensive oil sector , which provides 95 % of foreign exchange earnings and about 80 % of budgetary revenues .
Following the signing of an IMF stand-by agreement in August 2000 , Nigeria received a debt-restructuring deal from the Paris Club and a $ 1 billion credit from the IMF , both contingent on economic reforms .
Nigeria pulled out of its IMF program in April 2002 , after failing to meet spending and exchange rate targets , making it ineligible for additional debt forgiveness from the Paris Club .
In November 2005 , Abuja won Paris Club approval for a debt-relief deal that eliminated $ 18 billion of debt in exchange for $ 12 billion in payments - a total package worth $ 30 billion of Nigeria 's total $ 37 billion external debt .
Since 2008 the government has begun to show the political will to implement the market-oriented reforms urged by the IMF , such as modernizing the banking system , curbing inflation by blocking excessive wage demands , and resolving regional disputes over the distribution of earnings from the oil industry .
GDP rose strongly in 2007 - 10 because of increased oil exports and high global crude prices in 2010 .
President JONATHAN has pledged to continue the economic reforms of his predecessor with emphasis on infrastructure improvements .
Infrastructure is the main impediment to growth and in August 2010 JONATHAN unveiled a power sector blueprint that includes privatization of the state-run electricity generation and distribution facilities .
The government also is working toward developing stronger public-private partnerships for roads .
Nigeria 's financial sector was hurt by the global financial and economic crises and the Central Bank governor has taken measures to strengthen that sector .
Suspected Taleban insurgents have attacked a police post in Afghanistan 's southern Kandahar province , leaving at least four policemen and five militants dead .
Local officials say the militants fled after the Monday night clash , which lasted for three hours .
Earlier , security officials say that suspected Taleban rebels ambushed and killed an Afghan government official in an area bordering Pakistan .
Police say the official , Mohammed Zahir , was attacked Tuesday , in the town of Paktia .
In the exchange of fire , Zahir and one of the attackers were fatally shot and at least one other militant was wounded .
The Taleban was ousted from power in Afghanistan by U.S.-led forces in late 2001 .
The invasion was carried out after the fundamentalist regime refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11th terror attacks on the United States .
The United Nations has launched an urgent appeal for more than $ 20 million to build shelter for people left homeless by a devastating earthquake in Pakistan and a demolition drive in Zimbabwe .
The Nairobi-based U.N. Human Settlement Program , popularly known as HABITAT , has asked donors to contribute $ 22 million for the appeal .
HABITAT chief Ann Tibaijuka has issued a statement , saying there is an urgent need to stabilize the shelter conditions of poor people evicted in Zimbabwe , and those left out in the open in Pakistan .
More than $ 18 million will be spent in Pakistan , where more than three million people were left homeless by the October quake .
The remainder is to be used in a U.N.-backed program to build 2,500 semi-permanent housing units for at least 12,500 Zimbabweans .
A United Nations envoy says Mozambique is showing signs of becoming a vibrant economy but still faces humanitarian problems .
James Morris told reporters Wednesday that he is impressed by the progress Mozambique has made since 1992 , when rebels signed a peace deal ending 16 years of civil war with the government .
But he says the southern African country still faces challenges because of natural disasters , food shortages and rising rates of HIV / AIDS .
He says as long as those problems remain , the country 's poorest people will suffer .
Morris , a U.N. special envoy for humanitarian aid , spoke at the end of a two-day visit to Mozambique .
Mozambique 's economy is growing about 10 percent per year , but natural disasters have left 800,000 people in need of food aid .
NATO 's secretary general says a proposed U.S. missile defense system in Europe risks splitting the alliance between those countries it would fully protect and those left vulnerable to threats .
Jaap de Hoop Scheffer 's warning appeared Monday in an interview with the British newspaper , The Financial Times .
Experts say the proposed missile system in Poland and the Czech Republic would shield most of Europe from any attacks from what Washington calls rogue states such as Iran or North Korea .
But NATO officials told the newspaper that countries in southeastern Europe such as Turkey , Greece and Italy would need extra short-range missile protection because of their proximity to Iran .
De Hoop Scheffer suggests that the proposed U.S. system could be complemented by NATO plans for a smaller , mobile system scheduled to become operational in 2010 .
Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet is spending his 90th birthday Friday under house arrest after a judge charged him with human rights violations .
The charges , which were leveled against the former dictator Thursday , stem from the disappearance of seven people arrested by General Pinochet 's security services in the early years of his 1973 to 1990 rule .
They were among 119 people who disappeared while in custody in a case known as " Operation Colombo . "
This is the second indictment in two days against the former dictator .
General Pinochet had just made bail following his indictment Wednesday on charges of tax evasion , corruption and using false passports in a case involving an estimated $ 27 million hidden in foreign bank accounts .
A U.S. military court has convicted an Army sergeant of murdering two of his comrades and wounding 14 others in a grenade and rifle attack two years ago in Kuwait .
A military jury in Fort Bragg , North Carolina Thursday found Sergeant Hasan Akbar , a member of the Army 's 101st Airborne Division , guilty of ambushing the troops as they slept in tents at the start of the Iraq war .
Sergeant Akbar faces a possible death sentence .
If condemned to death , he would become the first soldier to be executed in more than 40 years .
His military lawyers claimed that constant ridicule over his being a black Muslim caused him to snap , triggering the attack .
The trial 's sentencing phase is scheduled to begin Monday .
China has criticized Japan 's defense agency for charting out scenarios for a potential Chinese military attack against Japan .
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue accused Japan of having , in her words , a " Cold War mentality , " adding that the scenarios were without merit .
Japanese media reported Monday that a Japanese defense agency review presented three possibilities for Chinese action against Japan .
It says China might take action to secure Chinese interests in a gas field in the East China Sea , to seize a disputed set of islands known as Daioyu in China and Senkaku in Japanto or to keep U.S. forces based in Japan from protecting Taiwan .
The Japanese report advises using diplomatic means to keep the situation stable .
Some of this information provided by Reuters and AP .
Israel 's parliament has approved the government 's plan to withdraw Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip and northern West Bank .
By a vote of 59 to 40 , Israeli lawmakers passed a bill Wednesday to compensate the 8,500 settlers who will be affected by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's plan .
Lawmakers rejected proposed amendments to call a referendum on the withdrawal and delay evacuation orders .
The Sharon government hopes to implement its plan by September , over strong opposition from hardline Israeli nationalists .
The plan could still be derailed if the government does not win passage of a state budget by March 31 - a failure that would cause its automatic fall from power .
In Ramallah Wednesday , Palestinian officials said leader Mahmoud Abbas has formed a new cabinet , with supporters due to take over the interior and foreign ministries .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Cuban leader Fidel Castro have strongly criticized the U.S.-backed Free Trade Area of the Americas as a plan by Washington to dominate Latin America .
During a rally in Havana Friday at the end of a three-day visit to Cuba , Mr. Chavez called on regional governments to instead join the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas - a competing plan he introduced last year .
So far , Cuba is the only country to join the Venezuelan leader 's socialist alternative to the U.S.-backed plan , which was to begin in January , but has yet to be finalized .
The Cuban and Venezuelan leaders announced new bilateral trade agreements on Friday , including Cuba 's plan to buy $ 412 million worth of goods from Venezuela , which provides inexpensive oil and other subsidies to communist Cuba .
Sao Tome 's prime minister , Damiao Vaz de Almeida , has resigned following contentious oil deals negotiated by the president .
The Associated Press quotes Mr. Vaz de Almeida as saying he objected to President Fradique de Menezes awarding oil exploration deals to Nigerian companies , which he said were " of doubtful credibility and inadequate technical ability . "
According to the report , Mr. Vaz de Almeida was angered by the president 's refusal to back the government this week during a major civil servants ' strike over pay .
Mr. Vaz de Almeida had been in office for about eight months .
Two years ago , President Menezes was briefly removed from power in a bloodless coup by rebellious soldiers .
They demanded more transparency in oil contracts , following the discovery of large oil reserves .
The leader of a Saudi Arabian opposition group is calling on protesters to take to the streets of Riyadh and Jeddah Thursday in a peaceful call for the monarchy 's removal .
Saad al-Fagih , the London-based head of the Movement of Islamic Reform in Arabia and protest organizer , says his group wants total change , not minor economic , political or social reform .
He said he expects " tens of thousands " of people to take part in the protest , which will begin after noon prayers Thursday .
Such demonstrations are illegal in Saudi Arabia , and those participating would risk arrest .
Mr. Fagih , has lived in London for eight years .
Last year , he accused Saudi agents of attempting to kill him in a stabbing incident at his London home .
The Saudi government denied any involvement .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says one of its soldiers , an Afghan serviceman and 11 insurgents were killed in heavy fighting Monday in southern Uruzgan province .
A military statement described how a group of 15 to 30 militants attacked a coalition patrol with guns , mortars and rocket-propelled grenades .
It added that U.S. fighter jets and helicopters responded to the attack and pounded militant positions .
In addition to those killed , three American troops and an Afghan soldier were wounded .
Eight insurgents were captured and a number of weapons seized .
Also today , in Kabul , three Afghan policemen were wounded when a bomb exploded at a checkpoint on a road to the city 's airport .
And , in eastern Khost province , another blast wounded a pro-government Muslim cleric who the day before had spoken out against the ousted Taleban regime in a radio interview .
The U.S. military is denying a report that Saddam Hussein has begun a jailhouse hunger strike , and says the ousted Iraqi leader had eaten on Sunday .
A lawyer for Iraq 's former deputy prime minister Tariq Aziz said earlier that Saddam Hussein and other detainees had stopped eating .
Monday is the first anniversary of Saddam 's capture by U.S. forces .
A U.S. spokesman said authorities are checking reports that others in a group of 11 high-profile detainees in U.S. custody may be rejecting some meals .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says a U.S. Marine was killed in action west of Baghdad Sunday in Anbar province .
Separately , a U.S. soldier wounded by a roadside bomb Saturday in Baghdad has died .
Military officials also say U.S. forces and Iraqi police detained more than 50 people during weekend raids targeting insurgents around Baquba , north of Baghdad .
A physicist and a mathematician are sitting in a faculty lounge .
Suddenly , the coffee machine catches on fire .
The physicist grabs a bucket and leap towards the sink , filled the bucket with water and puts out the fire .
Second day , the same two sit in the same lounge .
Again , the coffee machine catches on fire .
This time , the mathematician stands up , got a bucket , hands the bucket to the physicist , thus reducing the problem to a previously solved one .
Dutch oil giant Shell has asked a Nigerian court to block oil workers from joining a nationwide labor strike set to begin November 16 .
A judge in Lagos Monday declined to rule on the case immediately and scheduled a second hearing two days after the launch of the strike .
Sunday , the country 's main labor union , the Nigeria Labor Congress , said the next work stoppage will be " indefinite " and will aim to disrupt the country 's oil exports .
The union 's president , Adams Oshiomole , also called Shell an " enemy " of the Nigerian people .
Last month , the union held a four-day strike , which did not include oil workers .
Nigerian unions have criticized rising fuel prices in the country , Africa 's leading oil producer .
The government says price hikes are needed to end costly subsidies .
World leaders are hailing key general elections in Afghanistan , saying Afghans have braved Taleban violence in a show of determination to build a peaceful future .
President Bush congratulated the Afghan people and the government for a successful vote .
He said it was a major step forward in Afghanistan 's development as a democratic state governed by the rule of law .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the extremist elements that once again attempted to disrupt the electoral process have failed .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry said the completion of the electoral process in Afghanistan was a big step forward on the road to peace and stability , national reconstruction and development .
The European Union , the United Nations and NATO hailed the election and praised those who voted .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai called the election a defeat for terrorism .
The French colonies of Senegal and the French Sudan were merged in 1959 and granted their independence as the Mali Federation in 1960 .
The union broke up after only a few months .
Senegal joined with The Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in 1982 .
The envisaged integration of the two countries was never carried out , and the union was dissolved in 1989 .
The Movement of Democratic Forces in the Casamance ( MFDC ) has led a low-level separatist insurgency in southern Senegal since the 1980s , and several peace deals have failed to resolve the conflict .
Nevertheless , Senegal remains one of the most stable democracies in Africa .
Senegal was ruled by a Socialist Party for 40 years until current President Abdoulaye WADE was elected in 2000 .
He was reelected in February 2007 and has amended Senegal 's constitution over a dozen times to increase executive power and to weaken the opposition , part of the president 's increasingly autocratic governing style .
Senegal has a long history of participating in international peacekeeping and regional mediation .
San Marino 's economy relies heavily on its tourism and banking industries , as well as on the manufacture and export of ceramics , clothing , fabrics , furniture , paints , spirits , tiles , and wine .
The per capita level of output and standard of living are comparable to those of the most prosperous regions of Italy , which supplies much of its food .
The economy benefits from foreign investment due to its relatively low corporate taxes and low taxes on interest earnings .
San Marino has recently faced increased international pressure to improve cooperation with foreign tax authorities and transparency within its own banking sector , which generates about one-fifth of the country 's tax revenues .
Italy 's implementation in October 2009 of a tax amnesty to repatriate untaxed funds held abroad has resulted in financial outflows from San Marino to Italy worth more than $ 4.5 billion .
Such outflows , combined with a money-laundering scandal at San Marino 's largest financial institution and the recent global economic downturn , have contributed to a deep recession and growing budget deficit .
Industrial production declined sharply in 2010 , especially in the textile sector .
However , San Marino has little national debt , and an unemployment rate less than half the size of Italy 's .
The San Marino government has adopted measures to counter the downturn , including subsidized credit to businesses .
San Marino also continues to work towards harmonizing its fiscal laws with EU members and international standards .
In September 2009 , the OECD removed San Marino from its list of tax havens that have yet to fully implement global tax standards , and in 2010 San Marino signed Tax Information Exchange Agreements with most major countries .
The future of the country 's economy will be heavily influenced by the signing of a financial information exchange agreement with Italy , which many Italian investors see as fundamental for their business operations with San Marino .
Burmese state media say North Korea 's first ambassador to Burma has taken up his post after a diplomatic break of 24 years between the two countries .
Burma 's New Light of Myanmar says ties were restored Friday when North Korean Ambassador Kim Sok Chol presented his credentials to Senior General Than Shwe in the administrative capital , Naypyidaw .
The two countries severed ties in 1983 after North Korean agents carried out a bombing in Rangoon that killed more than 20 people during a visit by South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan .
Burma and North Korea agreed to resume diplomatic relations in April during a visit by North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Kim Yong Il .
Kevin Costner is suing a music promoter , alleging the company breached a contract to back his fledgling music career .
The 52-year-old movie actor-turned-musician filed an April 3 lawsuit against Mahee Worldwide Ventures Inc. , accusing it of fraud and breach of contract .
Costner is seeking damages in excess of $ 8.5 million .
Kevin Costner is the lead singer and songwriter for the Kevin Costner Band .
The lawsuit claims Costner 's music company , Kevin 's Music LLC , entered into a two-year agreement with Mahee Worldwide Ventures which would allow the band to perform as many as five concerts annually .
Mahee would also create and maintain a Web site marketing Costner 's band .
The suit claims Mahee reneged on all its agreements .
Mahee Worldwide Ventures has not responded to requests for comment .
Turkish officials say three people were killed Wednesday at a publishing house that printed Bibles .
They say the attackers slit the throats of the victims at the Zirve publishing house in the city of Malatya .
A fourth person was injured when he jumped out of window to escape .
The publisher had received threats for printing Bibles .
Officials say police are questioning several people in relation to the attack .
Turkish television showed police wrestling a man to the ground outside the building .
The attack is the latest on Turkey 's small Christian minority .
Last year , a Catholic priest was shot and killed in the Black Sea city of Trabzon .
Police in Chad Tuesday killed at least one person when they opened fire on a protest by wounded soldiers demanding better medical care .
A Defense Ministry official , Blabague Marboulaye , said Wednesday that the soldiers were demonstrating in front of a military hospital in the capital , N'Djamena .
The official said the troops were disruptive and that the protests had been infiltrated by civilians who wanted to benefit from health services .
Police were called in to disperse the protest , making several arrests in addition to shooting the demonstrator .
Officials say the protests had interrupted operations at the hospital , but calm has been restored at the facility .
The troops were wounded in combat against rebels in eastern Chad .
The rebels have waged a low-intensity war against the government of President Idriss Deby for the past year .
A top North Korean official says Pyongyang will increase its nuclear deterrent to defend against alleged hostile U.S. policies .
News reports quote Kim Yong-nam , head of the North 's legislature , as saying Pyongyang will increase its nuclear deterrent to counter any threat to isolate and stifle the republic .
He said North Korea would destroy any aggressor if war breaks out on the Korean peninsula .
Mr. Kim , who ranks second behind top leader Kim Jong-il , is the highest ranking North Korean official to state Pyongyang 's intention to boost its nuclear arsenal .
His comments come amid a standoff over the North 's nuclear weapons program .
Pyongyang claimed in February to possess atomic weapons and said it would indefinitely boycott international disarmament talks .
Two armed Pakistani inmates were holed up in Afghanistan 's main prison Friday , after an escape attempt that left at least five people dead .
The head of the Pul-i-Charki prison in the Afghan capital , Kabul , says four inmates linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network began the uprising Friday .
The four men , identified as one Iraqi and three Pakistanis , overpowered and killed a prison guard and seized his rifle , then killed two more guards .
Two of the original four prisoners died in a shootout .
Reports from the scene say a shootout has been under way between the remaining two inmates and security forces surrounding the prison .
The prison , on the outskirts of Kabul , is used to house inmates held for criminal offenses .
It is separate from detention facilities operated by the United States to house captured Taliban and al-Qaida fighters .
Revenues of this tiny island traditionally have come from exports of phosphates .
Few other resources exist , with most necessities being imported , mainly from Australia , its former occupier and later major source of support .
In 2005 an Australian company entered into an agreement to exploit remaining supplies .
Primary reserves of phosphates were exhausted and mining ceased in 2006 , but mining of a deeper layer of " secondary phosphate " in the interior of the island began the following year .
The secondary phosphate deposits may last another 30 years .
The rehabilitation of mined land and the replacement of income from phosphates are serious long-term problems .
In anticipation of the exhaustion of Nauru 's phosphate deposits , substantial amounts of phosphate income were invested in trust funds to help cushion the transition and provide for Nauru 's economic future .
As a result of heavy spending from the trust funds , the government faced virtual bankruptcy .
To cut costs the government has frozen wages and reduced overstaffed public service departments .
Nauru lost further revenue in 2008 with the closure of Australia 's refugee processing center , making it almost totally dependent on food imports and foreign aid .
Housing , hospitals , and other capital plant are deteriorating .
The cost to Australia of keeping the government and economy afloat continues to climb .
Few comprehensive statistics on the Nauru economy exist with estimates of Nauru 's GDP varying widely .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says he has not ruled out eventually holding an official inquiry into Britain 's role in the war in Iraq , but he said now is not the time .
Mr. Blair spoke just hours after his government narrowly defeated a parliamentary motion calling for an immediate inquiry into Britain 's involvement in the war .
At his weekly question and answer session in parliament Wednesday , the prime minister said an immediate inquiry would send an unwelcome signal to coalition allies and " dismay " the Baghdad government .
Late Tuesday , lawmakers voted against the proposed inquiry 298 to 273 , with 12 members of Mr. Blair 's Labor Party voting in favor .
Welsh and Scottish nationalist parties proposed the motion in light of deteriorating security and growing sectarian violence in Iraq .
U.S. officials in Afghanistan say a member of a Special Operations team missing since Tuesday has been rescued in the eastern part of the country .
Defense Department officials say he is a member of the elite Navy Seals .
The sailor was wounded , but evaded the enemy until his rescue on Sunday .
He has been flown to a U.S. military hospital in Germany .
Three other members of his Navy Seals team are still missing .
U.S. and Afghan troops are scouring the mountainous region in Kunar province looking for them .
The Navy commandos went missing Tuesday after calling for help during a battle with insurgents while on a reconnaissance mission .
The U.S. military helicopter sent to rescue them was shot down by suspected Taleban militants , killing all 16 U.S. service members aboard .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court has halted official publication of the results of the December 26 presidential election .
The high court announced Tuesday it must first review an appeal from former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who officials say lost the race to opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko .
The results must be printed in two government newspapers before the winner can be inaugurated .
Election officials say Mr. Yushchenko garnered 52 percent support in the court-ordered repeat election , over Mr. Yanukovych 's 44 percent .
The former prime minister is alleging widespread fraud in the hotly contested race , and has filed a number of complaints with the Supreme Court and electoral officials .
The December election replaced a November run-off that the high court said was rigged in favor of Mr. Yanukovych .
Top officials with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe have congratulated Mr. Yushchenko on the election .
OPEC 's president Sheikh Ahmad Fahd al-Sabah , who is also Kuwait 's energy minister , said Monday the cartel will pump an extra 500,000 barrels a day in May to calm supply fears .
Over the weekend , the Group of Seven Industrialized nations - comprising the United States , Japan , Germany , France , Britain , Italy , and Canada - asked OPEC to lower prices by increasing output .
Last month , the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries boosted its production quota by 500,000 barrels a day to 27.5 million barrels .
OPEC 's 11 members supply nearly 40 percent of the world 's crude oil .
In Monday 's trading , crude oil for May delivery rose 41 cents to $ 50.90 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices remain about 30 percent higher than a year ago .
The child molestation trial of pop star Michael Jackson is set to begin in southern California .
Lawyers are expected to begin screening the first of as many as 750 potential jurors at a Santa Barbara county court Monday for the trial that could last several months .
Mr. Jackson faces 10 charges involving a child under the age of 14 .
He has pleaded not guilty , saying he is completely innocent .
In a court-approved video statement Sunday , Mr. Jackson criticized recent leaks of grand jury testimony on the case , calling them " malicious , disgusting and false . "
Grand jury testimony , although secret and not publicly released , is often leaked to the media .
Venezuela 's ambassador to Washington is calling on the U.S. to extradite a Cuban militant accused of planning a deadly airplane bombing in 1976 .
Ambassador Bernardo Alvarez told Venezuelan state television Monday the extradition of Luis Posada Carriles should not be considered an immigration issue .
Carriles is a former CIA operative who is considered to be the mastermind behind the in-flight bombing of a Cubana Airlines plane that killed 73 people .
He is being held in a detention center in the U.S. state of Texas for immigration violations .
Alvarez called Carriles the " Osama bin Laden " of Latin America .
He said he discussed the extradition request with U.S. Under Secretary of State Thomas Shannon last month .
Venezuela 's government often clashes with Washington .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez sharply criticized President Bush Sunday , days after a White House report called Mr. Chavez a demagogue .
The International Monetary Fund says Haiti qualifies for partial cancellation of its debt .
Takatoshi Kato , the IMF 's deputy managing director , said Tuesday that Haiti has an unsustainable amount of debt and therefore is eligible for assistance under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative .
The impoverished country is struggling to manage roughly $ 1 billion in debt .
The Fund said in July that under the IMF-World Bank initiative , Haiti could receive up to $ 14 million in credit in the first year and possibly additional contributions of $ 22 million .
Kato said the IMF welcomes the Haitian government 's commitment to policies aimed at sustaining macroeconomic stability .
But , he said Haiti needs continued financial support from the international community as the country faces challenges in the areas of security , social conditions and sustained income growth .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Tropical Storm Tomas is about 640 kilometers south-southeast of Haiti 's capital , Port-au-Prince , with maximum sustained winds of 75 kilometers per hour .
The storm was downgraded from a hurricane late Sunday , but forecasters expect it to gain strength again on Wednesday .
Current projections put the storm on a path to Haiti , where hundreds of thousands of people are living in tent camps following an earthquake in January .
United Nations agencies and other aid groups have ordered food , shelter and emergency supplies to be stockpiled in camps across Haiti and coastal communities threatened by the storm .
The country is also struggling to contain a cholera outbreak that has already killed more than 300 people .
Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte says US looks forward to working with new Pakistani leaders
Crude oil prices are down more than $ 1 in New York after a U.S. government report showed inventories rose to the highest level in six years .
Crude oil for June delivery is down $ 1.17 , to $ 50.90 a barrel in New York Wednesday afternoon .
The U.S. Energy Department says supplies climbed 2.7 million barrels last week - more than twice what analysts were expecting .
In London , Brent crude oil for June delivery fell 87 cents , to $ 50.56 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange .
The International Energy Agency says oil demand around the world is lower due to an economic slowdown in China , Europe and the United States in the first quarter .
Haiti 's interim government has announced that the nation 's Supreme Court will no longer have the ability to overrule election officials .
The decision came Thursday , two days after the nation 's highest court ruled a Haitian-American businessman could run for office .
Election authorities had previously told Haitian-born Dumarsais Simeus that he was not eligible to run because he holds U.S. citizenship .
Also Thursday , Haiti 's government announced a committee would be created to review the nationalities of all candidates running for the presidency .
Haiti 's interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortue has said the nation 's elections will be delayed by several weeks , and not be held November 20 as scheduled .
The upcoming election will be the first since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide 's ouster in February 2004 .
The Disney Channel now can claim the most-watched basic cable TV movie in broadcasting history .
High School Musical 2 drew an audience of 17.2 million for its August 17 premiere , more than doubling the viewership of its predecessor .
High School Musical attracted 7.7 million viewers in 2006 .
The previous basic cable record-holder was CNN 's 1993 debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement , which drew 16.8 million viewers .
If kids were watching TV on August 17 , they were probably watching High School Musical 2 .
The Disney Channel said the movie attracted four out of five female viewers in the six-to-11-year-old age group .
The High School Musicalphenomenon has made stars of cast members Zac Efron and Ashley Tisdale , while also spawning hit records and sold-out concerts .
THE Warden of a Penitentiary was one day putting locks on the doors of all the cells when a mechanic said to him :
" Those locks can all be opened from the inside - you are very imprudent . "
The Warden did not look up from his work , but said :
" If that is called imprudence , I wonder what would be called a thoughtful provision against the vicissitudes of fortune . "
A Dog looking out for its afternoon nap jumped into the Manger of an Ox and lay there cosily upon the straw .
But soon the Ox , returning from its afternoon work , came up to the Manger and wanted to eat some of the straw .
The Dog in a rage , being awakened from its slumber , stood up and barked at the Ox , and whenever it came near attempted to bite it .
At last the Ox had to give up the hope of getting at the straw , and went away muttering :
" Ah , people often grudge others what they can not enjoy themselves . "
Reports from central Somalia say fierce fighting between a pro-government militia and Islamist rebels has left at least 24 people dead and dozens others wounded .
Witnesses and officials said Wednesday the fighting a day earlier was the worst seen in months .
Witnesses say the al-Qaida-linked Al Shabab militia , which has been fighting a civil war with the government , attacked the towns of Dhusamareb and Marergur .
The area has been under the control of the pro-government militia Ahlu Sunna Waljama .
The witnesses said residents fled the fighting and bodies were strewn across the villages .
Somalia 's fragile central government controls only a few small parts of the capital , Mogadishu , with the help of African Union peacekeepers .
The rest of the city is controlled by the al-Shabab and fellow Islamist militant group Hizbul Islam .
The two groups also control much of central and southern Somalia .
Violence continues to flare in southern Thailand despite the government 's latest action to ease tension in the Muslim-dominated region , an air drop of millions of paper doves as a gesture of peace .
Police say a bomb explosion in Narathiwat province Monday injured at least one soldier .
A second bomb exploded in the province several hours later , injuring an official .
Arson attacks in the same area on Sunday destroyed a home for teachers and damaged a school .
About 50 Thai air force planes flew over three restive southern provinces Sunday to drop 120 million ( origami ) birds made of folded paper , symbolizing the national wish for peace .
All Thais were asked to take part in the campaign , which also marked the birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej .
Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco says a number of fishing villages in the state 's Cameron Parish have been " erased from the map " by Hurricane Rita .
Search and rescue operations are set to wrap up today in the state 's rural Vermilion Parish , also hard-hit by tidal surges from the storm that made landfall on Saturday .
Many streets and homes are more than one meter under water .
Governor Blanco has asked the federal government for $ 34 billion in recovery aid for her state , which has been hit by two major hurricanes in four weeks .
In New Orleans , Mayor Ray Nagin is calling on residents of one neighborhood , Algiers , to return home and help rebuild the city .
In Texas , thousands of residents are planning to return to Houston Monday .
The nation 's fourth largest city escaped the worst of the storm .
Police in northwest Pakistan say a suicide bomber has struck near a market , killing at least 18 people and wounding more than 30 .
Authorities say the attack happened Wednesday in the town of Kohat .
Police say the bomber blew himself by a passenger bus near Tirah market .
Officials say the bus was headed to nearby Orakzai district .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast .
Meanwhile , a purported spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban has claimed responsibility for a deadly blast that took place Monday during an anti-Taliban meeting .
In that attack , two suicide bombers blew themselves in Mohmand near the Afghanistan border , killing 50 people .
The Pakistani army has been fighting insurgents in the area but has been unable to defeat Taliban and al-Qaida linked groups .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder is traveling to the United States for a meeting with President Bush on Monday .
The two leaders are expected to discuss Iran 's nuclear program and reform of the United Nations .
A White House spokesman says they also intend to focus on how the U.S. and Europe can work together to resolve a broad agenda of global issues .
After his visit with the president , Mr. Schroeder is scheduled to speak to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and to meet with members of Congress .
Mr. Schroeder was a strong critic of the U.S.-led war in Iraq , but tensions between the two countries eased somewhat after a meeting between President Bush and the Chancellor in the German city of Mainz in February .
A former Haitian refugee is being sworn in Tuesday as Canada 's governor general , the representative of Britain 's Queen Elizabeth .
Michaelle Jean will be the first black and only the third woman to hold the position .
At 48 , she is also one of Canada 's youngest governor generals .
She replaces Adrienne Clarkson in the ceremonial role .
Ms. Jean immigrated to Canada 's French-speaking Quebec province as a child , after her parents fled Haiti to escape dictatorial rule .
Critics have accused her of ties to Quebec 's separatist movement , although the former broadcast journalist says she is committed to Canadian federalism .
Canada became a self-governing dominion in 1867 , but retains some ties to the British crown .
Afghanistan 's foreign minister has met with top Pakistani officials in Islamabad to discuss issues that affect both countries ahead of a visit by the new U.S. special envoy .
The Pakistani foreign ministry says visiting Afghan Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta met with his Pakistani counterpart , Shah Mahmood Qureshi , and with Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari .
The ministry says they expressed readiness to strengthen their cross-border cooperation on fighting terrorism and militancy .
The new U.S. envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan , Richard Holbrooke , will visit South Asia next week as the Obama administration reviews its policy on the Afghan conflict .
A statement from Pakistan 's foreign ministry says Qureshi hopes what it called a " military surge " in Afghanistan will be paired with a politically and developmentaly-oriented surge .
The United States says it is boosting its troop strength in Afghanistan by some 30,000 soldiers .
Lebanese opposition leaders have called for a one-day national strike to demand that Beirut 's pro-Syrian government resign .
The strike , set for Monday , would come two weeks after the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
It would also coincide with opposition plans to call for a no-confidence vote against the government .
Opposition leaders blame Beirut and close-ally Syria for the car bombing that killed Mr. Hariri February 14 .
Both Beirut and Damascus deny involvement .
Earlier Wednesday , Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak dispatched his intelligence chief to Damascus , in a move to ease post-assassination tensions between Syria and Lebanon .
A Mubarak spokesman said the mission was also triggered by growing pressure on Syria coming from a U.S.-European summit in Brussels .
President Bush and European leaders are calling for Syria to withdraw its forces from Lebanon , and for a speedy investigation into the Hariri killing .
Acting Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has called a meeting of top military and political officials to discuss the possibility that the radical Hamas movement may make strong gains in upcoming Palestinian elections .
Hamas , whose military wing has claimed scores of attacks against Israel , has called for the destruction of the Jewish state .
Surveys ahead of Wednesday 's polls show a Hamas slate almost even with Fatah candidates .
Sunday , Israeli cabinet minister Tzachi Hanegbi was quoted by Reuters as saying that Hamas ' presence in a post-election Palestinian Authority would have a " tragic impact " on any future peace talks .
Separately , a published report says the United States is providing financial assistance to boost political support for the ruling Fatah movement .
The Washington Post says the U.S. Agency for International Development is using about $ 2 million to promote the Palestinian Authority ahead of the polls .
The U.N. refugee agency says at least 33 migrants trying to reach Yemen have drowned in the Gulf of Aden .
The agency says the drownings occurred after human smugglers forced all 137 passengers off a boat and into deep waters off the Yemeni coast .
It says the boat had sailed from Somalia with 134 Somalis and three Ethiopians on board .
Some of the migrants reached shore , but others are still missing .
The agency says it learned of the tragedy on Saturday , but it was unclear when the incident actually occurred .
Thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to cross the Gulf of Aden each year in hopes of escaping poverty and violence in their homelands .
The U.N. says many of the smugglers are ruthless , beating the migrants or making them swim long distances to shore .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his country is willing to reconsider pulling out of the five-nation Andean Community trade bloc .
Mr. Chavez on Monday said Venezuela would reconsider its decision if Colombia and Peru reconsider their free trade deals with the United States .
Bolivian President Evo Morales has called on Mr. Chavez to reverse his decision , and he also called for a meeting to save the bloc .
Last week , President Chavez said the bloc is " fatally wounded " because Colombia and Peru finalized free trade agreements with the U.S. Advocates say the free trade deals open up markets and create more jobs .
Critics say the pacts leave developing countries at a disadvantage with competition from cheaper U.S. products .
NATO early warning surveillance aircraft will patrol the skies over alliance members Latvia and the Netherlands when President Bush visits the two countries later this week .
An alliance statement Wednesday , says NATO Airborne Early Warning and Control aircraft , commonly called AWACS , will monitor airspace over the two countries from Friday to Sunday at the request of their governments .
Mr. Bush is flying to the Latvian capital , Riga , Friday for talks on Saturday with the presidents of Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania .
He then flies to the Netherlands , where he will meet with Dutch officials and mark the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe with a stop at an American military cemetery in Margraten .
President Bush then travels to Moscow for Monday 's World War II observances in the Russian capital .
Gunmen in Iraq have assassinated a prominent tribal leader in the northern Iraqi city of Tikrit .
Iraqi police said Tuesday Mahmoud al-Nida , the head of Saddam Hussein 's tribe , died following the attack Monday night .
Meanwhile , an influential Shi'ite leader in Iraq said residents should be allowed to form self-defense units to protect themselves against sectarian attacks .
Abdul Aziz al-Hakim , the leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq , told the Washington Post that Iraqis should band together and take up arms to protect their neighborhoods against rampant violence .
The continuing violence comes as Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki met with President Bush Tuesday to discuss ways to end the rising sectarian violence in Baghdad .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has arrived in Jordan for talks with King Abdullah about regional developments .
It is the first stop of her three-day visit to the Middle East .
Ms. Merkel Saturday is expected to discuss with the Jordanian monarch the Arab peace plan for Israel , as well as the situation in Iraq .
The trip will allow Ms. Merkel to continue the European Union 's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East while her country holds the EU 's rotating presidency .
The German chancellor 's trip follows a recent agreement among Arab countries to revise a 2002 peace plan with Israel .
Ms. Merkel acknowledged before her trip that the plan shows some progress , but she also warned that it poses some difficult challenges .
Ms. Merkel also is scheduled to travel to Israel , the Palestinian territories and Lebanon .
The New York Times , among other papers , recently published a new Hubble photograph of distant galaxies colliding .
Of course , astronomers have had pictures of colliding galaxies for quite some time now , but with the vastly improved resolution provided by the Hubble Space Telescope , you can actually see the lawyers rushing to the scene .
An Italian newspaper says Italy 's defense minister has ruled out a troop withdrawal from Afghanistan as demanded by the kidnappers of an Italian photojournalist .
The Italian daily La Stampa reported Thursday that Defense Minister Arturo Parisi says the troops will stay in Afghanistan despite the new demand .
Kidnappers who seized Italian photojournalist Gabriele Torsello in Afghanistan last week issued the demand late Wednesday .
Previously , the abductors said they would release Torsello if Italian authorities returned an Afghan convert to Christianity who was granted asylum in Italy .
Torsello was kidnapped in Helmand province last week .
Authorities blamed the abduction on the Taleban , but the radical Islamist group denies any involvement .
In Rome , the Foreign Ministry said it was working for the release of the photographer .
The U.N. Security Council has unanimously approved a new mission to East Timor to help establish security in the country .
The resolution passed on Friday sends more than 1,600 police and military liaison officers to East Timor for six months .
There will be no military troops in the new mission , but the Australian-led peacekeeping force already in East Timor will remain in place .
Australia sent 1,500 troops and 200 police officers to East Timor in May after weeks of street violence , sparked by a split in the ranks of East Timor 's armed forces .
Another 600 peacekeepers come from Malaysia , New Zealand , and Portugal .
Earlier on Friday , the commander of the peacekeepers , Steve Lancaster , said officers have detained 62 people for questioning in an attack on one of the Australian police officers last week .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan said 20 militants were killed by an airstrike in the Taliban stronghold of Helmand province .
A statement said the airstrike was ordered after Afghan and U.S. led coalition troops were ambushed while on foot patrol in Kajaki district on Wednesday .
The U.S. military said troops made sure there were no civilians in the area before calling in air support .
Southern Afghanistan is the center of a growing Taliban-led insurgency , fueled in part by the illicit opium trade from Helmand 's poppy harvests .
The Obama administration has announced a revised strategy to fight militants in Afghanistan and stabilize neighboring Pakistan .
The new plan includes the deployment of thousands of additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan and more money to train Afghan police and develop tribal areas .
Chinese state media say an explosion at a chemical plant in eastern China has killed at least 14 people and injured 30 others .
The official Xinhua news agency says the blast happened Friday at a chemical plant in Anhui province 's Dangtu County .
It is not immediately clear how many workers were in the plant at the time of the explosion .
Xinhua says the plant produces explosives for civilian uses such as mining .
Health officials in Vietnam say a 23-year-old woman has tested positive for a deadly strain of bird flu .
This is the second human case of bird flu diagnosed in Vietnam this year .
Officials in northern Quand Ninh province say the woman became sick after eating chicken .
Hospital director Nguyen Quoc Hung says the woman has been under treatment for five days .
Last month , an eight-year old girl from northern Thanh Hoa province also tested positive for the H5N1 virus .
On Saturday , animal health authorities confirmed bird flu outbreaks in poultry in three provinces in Vietnam .
The H5N1 strain of avian influenza remains largely a virus in birds , but experts fear it could mutate into a form that is easily transmitted by humans .
The World Health Organization says bird flu has killed 248 people since it resurfaced in Asia in 2003 .
More than 50 of the deaths have been in Vietnam .
Oshkosh Truck Corp. , Oshkosh , Wis. , estimated earnings for its fourth quarter ended Sept. 30 fell 50 % to 75 % below the year-earlier $ 4.5 million , or 51 cents a share .
The truck maker said the significant drop in net income will result in lower earnings for the fiscal year .
In fiscal 1988 , the company earned $ 17.3 million , or $ 1.92 a share , on revenue of $ 352.9 million .
Oshkosh Truck attributed the downturn in its earnings to higher start-up costs of its new chassis division , a softer motor-home market and higher administrative costs of compliance with government contractor regulations .
The company said it is in the process of phasing out John Deere , its current source of production for midsized motor home chassis .
In anticipation of the start-up of its new factory , the company said a larger-than-normal chassis supply has been built to carry it through the transition period .
Palestinian officials say militants have agreed to halt mortar and rocket attacks on Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip that have threatened to derail a three-month cease-fire with Israel .
A Palestinian Interior Ministry spokesman Saturday , said the groups , including Hamas , agreed to stop the attacks after meeting late Thursday with Interior Minister Nasser Youssef .
Hamas unleashed intensive mortar strikes on Jewish settlements earlier in the week after Israeli soldiers killed several militants .
Israel has threatened to use all necessary means to halt the attacks .
Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev has apparently claimed responsibility for last week 's raid on a city in southern Russia .
A statement said to be written by Mr. Basayev posted on a rebel website Monday says he directed last Thursday 's coordinated attacks on Nalchik .
The message says militants from the group Caucasus Front carried out the operation .
More than 100 people were killed in the fighting in Nalchik , the provincial capital of Russia 's Kabardino-Balkaria region .
The province borders the republic of Chechnya where Russian forces have been fighting Muslim separatists for more than a decade .
Shamil Basayev is the most wanted man in Russia .
The Chechen warlord claimed responsibility for the 2004 Beslan school massacre that claimed 330 lives , most of them children .
Insurgents in Iraq launched a wave of suicide attacks against U.S. forces and kidnapped an American contractor Monday .
A spokesman for the U.S. embassy says the contractor was abducted near Baghdad .
Earlier , suicide bombers blew up three vehicles at the entrance to a U.S. base in western Iraq .
Three U.S. Marines and three Iraqi civilians were wounded .
Insurgents in another vehicle opened fire on the base before a U.S. helicopter destroyed their car .
And in Samarra , a suicide car bomber killed three people and wounded 20 others when his vehicle exploded near a U.S. convoy .
Meanwhile , media reports say the U.S. Defense Department may withdraw tens of thousands of troops from Iraq by early next year .
A showdown looms in the U.S. Senate , which has begun debate on one of President Bush 's most contested judicial nominees and a possible rule change strongly opposed by Democrats .
The debate began Wednesday with Republican Majority Leader Bill Frist raising the nomination of Judge Priscilla Owen .
She is one of seven appeals court candidates Democrats have blocked using filibusters , a parliamentary delaying tactic .
Republicans have said that unless Democrats allow votes on all seven , they will try to enact a new rule banning filibusters against judicial nominees .
The minority Democrats , who consider the seven Bush nominees too conservative , accused Republicans of making a power grab .
The dispute has been intensified by the effect the proposed change could have on future Supreme Court nominations .
It is unclear whether Republican leaders have the votes to achieve their goal , known as the " nuclear option . "
A militant in southern Afghanistan has demanded the release of Taleban prisoners in exchange for four Afghan health workers and their driver who were kidnapped Tuesday in Kandahar province .
A man who claimed to be a local Taleban commander called news agencies Thursday , saying the kidnappers are demanding the release of Taleban prisoners in exchange for the five hostages .
He said the medics and their driver were safe .
The demand comes more than a week after the Afghan government released five Taleban prisoners in exchange for an Italian journalist who was abducted and held for two weeks .
The United States strongly criticized the deal , saying that agreeing to the demands of extremists only encourages more kidnappings and violence .
President Bush is holding a news conference Monday , just hours after defending the war in Iraq in a nationally televised speech late Sunday .
Mr. Bush is expected to face questions about his authorization of a secret domestic surveillance program , which has drawn harsh criticism in Congress .
He is also expected to be questioned on Iraq , and about his efforts to renew the Patriot Act , which expanded the government 's search and surveillance powers after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
In Sunday 's speech , Mr. Bush said the United States is winning the war in Iraq and warned against a quick withdrawal .
The president lashed out at opposition Democrats , calling their criticism of his handling of the war " defeatism " , and said it is not justified by the facts .
A suicide bomber blew himself up Sunday in a northern Iraqi cafe , killing at least 13 people and wounding 23 others in the town of Tuz Khurmatu .
Elsewhere , Iraqi officials say gunmen who kidnapped 30 sports officials have freed six of them in Baghdad .
There was no word on the other hostages , including Iraq 's Olympic Committee chief .
Meanwhile , insurgents raided the detention wing of a hospital northeast of Baghdad and freed several wounded comrades .
Four security men were killed in the attack .
In southern Iraq , British officials said gunmen killed a British soldier in Basra - the country 's first military death in Iraq since late May .
Separately , two British soldiers were wounded by a roadside bomb .
In Kirkuk , U.S. and Iraqi forces killed one gunman and captured two after the gunmen ambushed and wounded an Iraqi security officer .
The U.N. Security Council has pushed for full implementation of Ivory Coast peace accords , threatening sanctions against those fail to comply .
In a statement issued Wednesday by its new president , Greek Ambassador Adamantios Vassilakis , the council said those who thwart the peace process face a year-long travel ban and the freezing of their financial assets .
The council president also said the people of Ivory Coast must begin putting their words into action .
Although the war is over , Ivory Coast remains divided between the government and rebel-held territory .
Peace accords to end the conflict have not been fully implemented .
An April deal to begin disarming was ignored and the warring parties returned to negotiations last month .
They recommitted themselves to a new date for disarmament along with other steps that will pave the way for new elections in October .
Lebanon 's prime minister-designate says he will offer his resignation to the Lebanese president , after failing to form a government of national unity .
Omar Karami told reporters Tuesday in Beirut he will inform President Emile Lahoud of his decision when they meet on Wednesday .
The pro-Syrian Mr. Karami first resigned on February 28 , in the face of growing anti-Syrian protests sparked by the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
President Lahoud re-appointed him on March 10 , but he has not been able to bring the opposition into a new government .
Meanwhile , security officials say the pro-Syrian head of military intelligence in Lebanon , General Raymond Azar , will take a month-long leave of absence .
Opposition leaders have called for his resignation , along with those of several other security officials .
A deadly winter storm that swept across the United States this week has left more than people 50 dead and has destroyed nearly $ 1 billion worth of California 's produce industry .
The harsh winter mix of snow , sleet and freezing rain has left more than 300,000 people without power from the southwestern U.S. state of Texas to the northeastern U.S. state of Maine .
A separate bout of icy weather threatens to decimate California 's citrus crop .
On Tuesday , California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency and asked the federal government for disaster aid .
California is the nation 's top producer of fresh citrus fruits , and analysts say they expect some citrus prices to at least double at the wholesale level .
Forecasters say the cold temperatures will continue through Thursday , followed by a warming trend across most of the country .
Authorities in California say lightning strikes have sparked more than 400 fires in the northern part of the state , consuming thousands of hectares and forcing some residents to evacuate .
The office of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger says the fires stretch more than 500 kilometers from south of San Francisco to the border of the neighboring state of Oregon .
The governor has ordered the California National Guard to assist in fighting the blazes .
Meanwhile , much of California is bracing for a fifth straight day of record high temperatures .
Forecasters say temperatures reached above 32 degrees Celsius on Saturday in San Jose , Los Angeles and the state capital of Sacramento .
The heat wave has sent people scurrying to beaches and rivers to cool off , and strained regional power grids as millions of residents turn on air conditioners .
Time zone by time zone , nearly 4,000 cities and towns in 88 countries marked Earth Hour Saturday , by dimming nonessential lights from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m.
From an Antarctic research station , to the Great Pyramids of Egypt and several buildings in Washington , including the Smithsonian Castle , famous structures went dark in a campaign to highlight the threat of climate change .
China participated for the fist time , cutting the lights at Beijing 's Bird 's Nest Stadium and the Water Cube .
In the Chilean capital of Santiago lights were turned off at a number of buildings , including the Presidential Palace where President Michelle Bachelet hosted a dinner by candlelight for U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden .
Earth Hour organizers say there is no uniform way to measure how much energy was saved worldwide .
The event was first organized in Sydney in 2007 .
At the plaza in front of the Western Wall , Israeli police arrest an ultra-Orthodox Israeli Israeli police have prevented right-wing Jewish extremists from staging a rally at a disputed holy site in Jerusalem .
Thousands of Israeli police encircled Jerusalem 's Old City Sunday , stopping cars and setting up roadblocks to prevent an ultranationalist group from entering a disputed holy site .
Authorities say police arrested at least a dozen Israeli right-wing activists , including the leader of an ultranationalist group , Revava .
The group planned to lead thousands of activists into the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound Sunday .
The hilltop compound is the most hotly contested site in Jerusalem , known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount .
Palestinian militants have warned of an uprising if the Jews try to enter the site .
Most elementary school children will be able to tell you that the first American flag was made by Betsy Ross .
What they are not taught was that she was also a social scientist who developed the techniques now used by Gallop and others .
It started when she asked a group of colonists what they thought of the flag she had made .
This was the origin of ... the flag poll .
Italian police say a parcel bomb was found Monday at the Greek embassy in Rome .
Police say the device failed to explode and was defused by bomb disposal experts .
The bomb arrived just days after two similar packages exploded at the Chilean and Swiss embassies in the Italian capital .
Two staffers were wounded in those blasts .
Members of an anarchist group claimed responsibility for last week 's parcel bombs , but there was no immediate claim for Monday 's attempt .
Police across much of Europe have been on heightened alert since a suicide bombing in Stockholm earlier this month killed the suspected bomber and wounded two others .
Last week , 12 terror suspects were arrested in Britain .
Sweden will have the chance to add the Olympic Games women 's curling title to its world and European crowns .
The Swedes reached the tournament final at the Turin Winter Games with a 5-4 semifinal victory over Norway Wednesday .
In the final on Thursday , Sweden will face Switzerland , which was a 7-5 winner over 1998 Olympic champion Canada .
Both Sweden and Switzerland will compete for gold with identical records in Turin .
Each finished the preliminary round with win-loss records of 7-2 in the 10-nation tournament .
Defending Olympic women 's marathon champion Mizuki Noguchi of Japan has withdrawn from the Beijing Games because of a left thigh injury .
The chief of Japan 's Olympic delegation Tomiaki Fukuda made the announcement Tuesday , saying the 30-year-old Noguchi has an injured muscle in her left thigh .
Japan will not send a replacement marathoner for Noguchi , because her substitute also is injured .
No runner has won the women 's marathon gold in two consecutive Olympics .
This year 's field looks wide open , with Noguchi out and British world record holder Paula Radcliffe still attempting to recover from a stress fracture in her left thigh .
Incoming Bolivian President Evo Morales is pledging to launch an investigation into allegations that military officials worked with the United States to destroy shoulder-fired missiles owned by the Bolivian army .
Mr. Morales Wednesday described the move as treason , saying disarming a country and its armed forces is a crime .
He previously filed a legal complaint against outgoing President Eduardo Rodriguez over the order .
President Rodriguez says he authorized the missiles ' destruction , but not their transfer to the United States .
The president Tuesday fired Army chief General Marcelo Antezana over the matter and Defense Minister Gonzalo Mendez resigned .
Washington has previously denied charges of a secret , U.S.-led operation to remove the missiles from Bolivia .
The United States said Wednesday it complied in good faith with a Bolivian government request for assistance in disposing of outdated arms .
With the HIV / AIDS epidemic now 25-years-old , the World Bank has launched a new strategy to combat the disease where it is the most prevalent -- Africa .
Nearly two million have died on the continent and HIV has cost the World Bank $ 1.6 billion .
In Washington this week , World Bank officials said it 's time to move away from an initial " emergency response " to a new four-year action agenda .
Producer Zulima Palacio has the story .
Carol Pearson narrates .
Ethiopia says it has broken off diplomatic relations with Qatar , accusing the Gulf state of supporting armed opposition groups in the Horn of Africa .
In a statement Monday , Ethiopia 's government charged that Qatar is a source of instability in the region .
It alleged that Qatar supports armed opposition groups within Ethiopia as well as Islamic insurgents in Somalia , where Ethiopian troops are supporting the government .
It also cited Qatar 's strong ties with Ethiopia 's rival Eritrea .
There was no immediate response from Qatar .
The Ethiopian government said Qatar has been one of the most important supporters of terrorism and extremism in the region .
The statement said Ethiopia had long observed what it called Qatar 's " hostile behavior " and had been patient before taking Monday 's measure .
Somalia 's transitional government has announced plans to begin relocating to the capital Mogadishu from Kenya February 21 .
The government has been operating from Kenya since its formation last year , fearing continued instability in Somalia .
Officials met Tuesday with clan leaders in Mogadishu who promised to hand over the city 's port and former government buildings .
Somalia 's Prime Minister Mohammed Ali Gedi said today how quickly the relocation takes place depends on the support the new government receives from donor nations .
The government is seeking about $ 77 million to fund its transition .
Tuesday , the African Union authorized the deployment of east African troops to help the new government relocate .
Iran says it wants to continue talks about its nuclear program with the European Union , despite a deadlock over Tehran 's desire to produce nuclear fuel .
Iran 's Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazzi told reporters Thursday that his country will continue the negotiations , provided they lead to a tangible outcome .
Mr. Kharazzi spoke at the United Nations after meeting with Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
In a deal with Britain , France and Germany , Iran agreed late last year to suspend nuclear-fuel activities while the sides tried to negotiate an agreement regarding Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
But Iran recently said it will resume some work relating to enriched uranium , which can be used both as fuel for nuclear power plants and explosive material for atomic bombs .
Washington accuses Tehran of running a secret nuclear weapons program , a charge Iran denies .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has obtained instructions from international smugglers for making nuclear weapons components .
The IAEA accusation is included in a report for presentation to the 35-nation IAEA board Thursday in Vienna .
The report , obtained by Western journalists , also confirms that Tehran has begun renovation work at a key nuclear plant , but has not yet begun actual uranium enrichment work .
European and U.S. officials accuse Iran of seeking high-grade enriched uranium to make an atomic bomb , but Tehran insists it is seeking a lower grade to make electricity .
Tuesday , Britain , the United States , China , Russia and France said the IAEA should refer Iran to the United Nations Security Council for allegedly violating a key nuclear treaty with its atomic program .
However , Iran 's Foreign Minister said U.N. inspectors will be barred from its nuclear facilities starting Saturday if a referral is made .
Israel 's Vice Prime Minister Shimon Peres says Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who said Israel should be wiped off the map , must know that Iran can also be destroyed .
Mr. Peres told the Reuters News Agency that Israel would defend itself under any condition .
He said Iran is not just a threat to Israel , but a danger to the whole world .
He warned of a world arms race if Iran builds a nuclear weapon , saying some bombs could fall into the hands of terrorists .
Mr. Peres also said Iran 's defiance is making a mockery of the world .
He called on the the United Nations Security Council to act or face endangering an important world body .
North Korea has barred border crossings with South Korea for a second straight day Saturday , stranding hundreds of people in the North .
Pyongyang banned border traffic on Friday , preventing more than 400 people who work at a joint industrial complex at Kaesong from returning South .
Seoul 's Unification Ministry says five people were allowed to cross , including four foreigners and a bride-to-be .
Earlier this week , North Korea switched off military military phones to the South to protest annual military exercises being conducted jointly by the United States and South Korea .
North Korea routinely accuses the United States and South Korea of having aggressive intentions when they carry out the joint military drills .
The maneuvers include a U.S. aircraft carrier , 26,000 U.S. troops and more than 30,000 South Korean soldiers .
The drills are expected to conclude on March 20 .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says there is reason for optimism in Afghanistan five years after the fall of the Taleban .
In an opinion piece in Saturday 's Washington Post newspaper , Rumsfeld wrote that despite Afghanistan 's rising opium production and violence in the south , " the trajectory is a hopeful and promising one . "
The secretary cited several improvements including an economy that has tripled in five years , a military that has grown by 1,000 soldiers a month and a 500 percent increase in children attending school .
Rumsfeld also mentioned a few setbacks , including a surge in drug production and rising violence by insurgents .
Pakistani officials say two bombings have killed more than 50 people and wounded nearly 100 others in the country 's northwest tribal area near the Afghan border .
Police said Friday a suicide bomber on a motorcycle detonated explosives outside a government office in the Yakaghund village in Pakistan 's northwest Mohmand tribal region .
They suspected the second explosion was from a car bomb .
The early morning blasts flattened dozens of buildings .
They occurred as officials nearby were distributing wheelchairs and other aid to those in need .
Mohmand is part of Pakistan 's lawless tribal belt where Taliban and al-Qaida militants are believed to be hiding .
The Pakistani army has carried out operations in Mohmand , but it has been unable to extricate the militants .
Pakistan is under pressure from the United States to go after the insurgents , who also have carried out attacks on Western forces in Afghanistan .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says his country is ready to build ties with neighboring Armenia , despite disagreements over decades-old allegations of Turkish genocide against Armenians .
In an interview with the newspaper Milliyet , Mr. Erdogan renewed his call for creation of a joint Turkish-Armenian commission to study the disputed genocide issue .
He said this could coincide with the establishment of political relations between the two neighbors .
The countries share a border , but have no diplomatic ties .
Tuesday , Armenian President Robert Kocharian said his country could take part in a commission , but he first called for improved ties .
Armenia says 1.5 million of its nationals were slaughtered by the Turks during the final years of the Ottoman Empire 90 years ago , characterizing this as genocide .
Turkey says 300,000 Armenians and thousands of Turks were killed during a Russia-backed Armenian uprising against Ottoman rule .
French President Jacques Chirac says the U.S-led invasion of Iraq has destabilized the entire Middle East and boosted the spread of terrorism .
In the latest in a series of speeches marking the New Year , Mr. Chirac Friday called the war in Iraq an American " adventure . "
He said it has increased divisions between Iraqi communities and undermined the integrity of the war-torn country .
The French president also renewed his call for an international conference on the Middle East peace process .
In separate speeches earlier this week , Mr. Chirac addressed the French economy and homelessness in his country .
Although widely seen as unlikely to run for a third term in this year 's presidential elections , the 74-year-old president has not yet announced his intentions for the April balloting .
Iran has attacked President Bush 's planned trip to the Middle East and says it has no plans to normalize relations with the United States .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told a new conference Sunday that Iran sees Mr. Bush 's trip as interference in the countries of the region .
Hosseini also said Iran has no immediate plans to restore ties with America .
Iranian leaders have often said they would not establish ties with the United States unless Washington changes its behavior towards the Islamic Republic .
Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei suggested last Thursday that ties with Washington might one day be possible , although he said it would harm Iran to restore relations now .
The U.S. military in Iraq says seven people have been killed and 20 others wounded in a suicide bombing at a government facility in Baquba .
A U.S. statement says the dead include a U.S. soldier , a U.S. contractor and five Iraqi government workers .
At least 20 others , including nine U.S. personnel , were wounded .
Meanwhile , Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish negotiators are scrambling Tuesday to reach an accord on a new Iraqi constitution , ahead of a parliament vote on the charter set for Thursday .
Officials say issues of federalism and the division of authority between the presidency and parliament remain unresolved .
Majority Shi'ites and the Kurds are seeking a decentralized government that allows significant regional autonomy in the Kurdish north and Shi'ite southern Iraq .
Sunnis want a centralized government seen as protecting their minority interests in central Iraq .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has promoted a diplomat who was thrown out of the United States in retaliation for Venezuela 's expulsion of a U.S. official accused of spying .
President Chavez told reporters Friday in Caracas that Jeny Figueredo Frias has been named deputy foreign minister for Europe .
The president was quoted by Reuters as saying the move is in recognition of Figueredo 's work and what she means for Venezuela .
Figueredo served as chief of staff to the Venezuelan ambassador in Washington when she was ordered to leave the United States .
She was not accused of wrongdoing , but State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the U.S. had been " forced to respond . "
Figueredo was ordered out after Venezuela expelled naval Captain John Correa for spying .
The State Department says none of the military attachés at the U.S. Embassy in Caracas has been involved in any inappropriate activity .
Vice President Dick Cheney says U.S. officials are not concerned that Iraq 's next government will seek to fashion an Islamic state like neighboring Iran .
The vice president was responding a story in the New York Times that said leading Iraqi Shi'ite clerics want Islam to be the guiding principle in Iraq 's new constitution .
Asked about the story on the Fox News Sunday television program , Mr. Cheney said it is premature to say what the clerics are pushing for .
But he said Shi'ite religious leader Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani has made it clear that clerics should not play a direct role in the new government .
He said he thinks a " great many people " involved in Iraq 's political process want a balance between secular beliefs and religion .
Early returns from last Sunday 's Iraqi elections show the main Shi'ite coalition headed for victory .
Gunmen dressed in Iraqi police commando uniforms killed eight people during a raid on a Baghdad electronics store Wednesday .
Three women were among those killed .
Another six people were wounded .
The attack is the latest in the affluent Mansour district and comes after gunmen abducted more than 30 Iraqis in Baghdad this week .
North of the capital , a roadside bomb killed three Iraqi soldiers near Kirkuk .
And the U.S. military said Wednesday three insurgents were killed Tuesday when an unmanned aircraft fired a missile at them while they were planting a roadside bomb near Balad Air Base .
In other violence Tuesday , two U.S. soldiers were killed in separate incidents .
The United Nations Children 's Fund says new initiatives in East Asia and the Pacific are leading the way in fighting the commercial sexual exploitation of children in the region .
Delegates from more than 20 East Asian and Pacific countries met in Thailand this week to discuss new measures to protect children , help victims , and punish exploiters .
They include a memorandum of understanding against trafficking , signed last month by Cambodia , China , Burma , Laos , Thailand , and Vietnam .
UNICEF says despite progress , a lack of reliable information continues to be a major obstacle to implementing effective strategies to stop the sex trade in children .
It says another concern is the exponential rise in child pornography on the Internet .
Philippine President Gloria Arroyo says a Philippine hostage in Iraq has been released after nearly eight months in captivity .
Ms. Arroyo announced Wednesday , that Roberto Tarongoy is in the custody of Philippine diplomats in Baghdad and that arrangements are being made for him to return home .
President Arroyo did not provide further details .
Mr. Tarongoy , who worked for a Saudi firm , was abducted in early November along with an American colleague , Roy Hallums , whose fate remains unknown .
Last year , the Philippines pulled out its small military contingent from Iraq , after a Philippine truck driver was kidnapped .
The truck driver was later released .
North Korea says banning nuclear weapons from the Korean peninsula should be the main goal of the six-party talks that resumed Tuesday in Beijing .
But during the opening session Japan 's chief negotiator , Kenichiro Sasae , raised the issue of North Korea 's abduction of Japanese citizens during the 1970s and 80s , despite objections from South Korea .
Chief U.S. negotiator Christopher Hill said in his opening statement that the United States views North Korea as a sovereign nation and that Washington has " absolutely no intention " of attacking the Stalinist state .
This fourth round of talks involving the two Koreas , the United States , China , Japan and Russia is aimed at convincing Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear ambitions .
North Korea had boycotted the negotiations for more than a year , citing a hostile U.S. policy .
The inhabitants of the area of Oman have long prospered on Indian Ocean trade .
In the late 18th century , a newly established sultanate in Muscat signed the first in a series of friendship treaties with Britain .
Over time , Oman 's dependence on British political and military advisors increased , but it never became a British colony .
In 1970 , QABOOS bin Said Al-Said overthrew the restrictive rule of his father ; he has ruled as sultan ever since .
His extensive modernization program has opened the country to the outside world while preserving the longstanding close ties with the UK .
Oman 's moderate , independent foreign policy has sought to maintain good relations with all Middle Eastern countries .
Inspired by the popular uprisings that swept the Middle East and North Africa in 2010 - 11 , Omanis began staging marches and demonstrations - a small number of which turned violent in clashes with government security forces - to demand economic benefits , an end to corruption , and greater political rights .
In February and March 2011 , in response to protester demands , QABOOS reshuffled his cabinet , pledged to create more government jobs , and promised to implement economic and political reforms , such as granting legislative and regulatory powers to the Council of Oman .
As India prepares to hold next month 's state assembly elections in its part of Kashmir , a trade route has been reopened between the two Kashmirs .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna reports Washington experts see these moves leading to an eventual end to the long-running conflict over the disputed territory .
Google , the world 's largest computer search company , will promote word processing and office software from Sun Microsystems .
Some analysts say the alliance is a step toward challenging Microsoft 's dominance of the software industry .
At a news conference late Tuesday , Sun and Google offered a vision of working together to build the next generation of the Internet , but gave few specific details .
Google is used by 78 million people each month , which could help Sun draw users from Microsoft products .
Currently , products made by software giant Microsoft run the vast majority of personal computers around the world .
The mayor of New Orleans has ordered a mandatory evacuation for most of the residents of his southern U.S. city , as Hurricane Katrina nears with winds of 250 kilometers per hour .
Sunday , the U.S. National Weather Service upgraded Katrina to a rare category 5 storm , the most intense on the Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale .
Forecasters expect Katrina to make landfall in the state of Louisiana sometime Monday , bringing heavy rains and a high storm surge along with the winds .
Officials are especially concerned about New Orleans , most of which sits below sea level and is vulnerable to flooding .
Weather officials have warned a major loss of life is possible unless residents take precautions immediately .
At last report , the hurricane was located about 400 kilometers off the southern Louisiana coast , in the Gulf of Mexico .
President Bush has already declared a federal state of emergency for the state of Louisiana .
A published report says that shareholders in the Russian oil company , Yukos , are taking legal action in an effort to be compensated by the government for the sharp drop in the firm 's market value .
Thursday 's edition of the London-based Financial Times newspaper says the director of Menatep , the group that controls 60 percent of Yukos , has filed a complaint against the Russian government under the Energy Charter signed by Russia designed to protect investors .
The newspaper says Menatep 's legal action is the first aggressive effort made by the oil company 's investors to be compensated for losses incurred as share prices have plummeted since last year .
This sharp drop in Yukos ' value is attributed to taxes imposed on the company by the Russian government .
Observers claim the taxes are politically motivated .
Indonesian officials say a landslide has killed five people on Flores Island .
Local officials said the landslide was triggered by several days of heavy rain .
Floods and landslides are common in Indonesia , especially during the rainy season .
Many landslides are caused by illegal logging or the clearing of farmland that strips away natural barriers .
Flores is an island in the southeastern part of the Indonesian archipelago , about 15 hundred kilometers from the capital , Jakarta .
Pakistan has criticized remarks by a U.S. State Department counter-terrorism official who said Pakistan is not doing enough to remove Taleban and al-Qaida members from its soil .
Henry Crumpton , in Kabul Saturday after talks in Pakistan , praised Pakistan for arresting hundreds of al-Qaida members but added that miliant leaders had found safe haven in Pakistan 's lawless semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's military and government spokesman , Major-General Shaukat Sultan , called Crumpton 's statement irresponsible , saying he did not make the same criticisms during his talks with Pakistani officials .
Pakistan , a key U.S. ally in the war against terrorism , has deployed about 80,000 troops to its tribal regions to root out foreign militants and their local allies .
Pakistani officials say that 324 militants , including 76 foreigners had been killed in the area since last July .
A South African judge is expected to hand down the verdict Monday in a high-profile rape trial involving former deputy president Jacob Zuma .
Zuma is accused of raping a 31-year-old , HIV-positive woman who is a longtime family friend .
He claims the sex was consensual .
The trial has drawn widespread interest across South Africa , focusing attention on the country 's high incidence of rape and HIV infection .
Monday 's verdict is scheduled to be broadcast live on television .
Sunday , the 64-year-old Zuma attended a fundraising concert in the Johannesburg suburb of Soweto , where he thanked thousands of audience members for their support .
The proceeds from the concert went to his legal fund .
Zuma was once considered a strong contender to succeed President Thabo Mbeki , who fired him because of corruption-related accusations last year .
Zuma is due to stand trial on corruption charges in July .
French President Jacques Chirac has completed his four-day visit to China with a tour of archaeological sites in the historic city of Xian .
Mr. Chirac visited an ancient tomb built more than 2,000 years ago for an emperor of China 's Han dynasty .
He expressed a strong admiration for Chinese history and the efforts of archaeologists .
Mr. Chirac earlier traveled to the central Chinese city of Wuhan to lay the foundation stone for a new Peugeot-Citroen auto factory .
The plant is a joint venture with Chinese firm Dongfeng , and is expected to start producing cars in 2009 .
In Beijing Thursday , the French president presided over the signing of 13 deals between French and Chinese businesses .
The highlight was China 's decision to buy 150 Airbus passenger jets , worth about $ 10 billion .
Mr. Chirac also met with Chinese President Hu Jintao Thursday to discuss the nuclear disputes with Iran and North Korea .
The Israeli Housing Ministry is seeking bids to build an additional 228 housing units in West Bank settlements , despite a requirement for a freeze in settlement activity under the international " road map " peace plan .
According to a published tender , the construction plan is to build 150 units in the ultra-orthodox settlement of Beitar Illit and another 78 units in Efrat .
Both settlements are within a few kilometers of East Jerusalem , where Palestinians hope to establish the capital of a future Palestinian state .
The " road map " peace process calls on Israel to halt all settlement activity in occupied territories .
It also calls on the Palestinian Authority to crack down on militants attacking Israelis
Iraqi police say a suicide truck bomb attack has killed at least 22 people and wounded 40 others in a small town in northern Iraq .
Authorities say the blast ripped through a crowded outdoor market Saturday in Emerli , a village north of Baghdad .
On Friday , a car bombing in a Kurdish village killed at least 22 people and wounded about 17 others .
Police said they believe a suicide car bomber was responsible for the attack in the village of Ahmad Maref , northeast of the capital .
The U.S. military Saturday reported the deaths of six American soldiers and an Iraqi interpreter over the past few days , mostly in Baghdad .
Six soldiers were wounded .
In other news , Britain 's defense ministry says a British soldier has died in the southern city of Basra .
A spokesman did not provide details .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital Mogadishu say fighting between rival militias has claimed the lives of at least 15 people since Saturday .
Residents say the clashes resumed Monday after a one-day lull .
The fighting was sparked by a territorial dispute between gunmen loyal to Mogadishu 's Islamic courts and fighters allied with local warlords .
Ten people were killed and 40 wounded in Saturday 's clashes .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew former President Mohamed Siad Barre .
The country 's interim government , set up in 2004 , has been hampered by disputes between political leaders .
The interim parliament is scheduled to hold its first meeting on Somali soil this Sunday after previous meetings in Kenya .
The United States has warned Americans against flying on local airlines in Indonesia because of safety concerns raised by recent accidents .
The U.S. Embassy in Jakarta issued the warning Tuesday .
The statement said the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration downgraded the country 's safety rating from one to two due to serious concerns about oversight and operational systems .
An Indonesian airliner plunged into the sea in January , killing all 102 people on board .
In March , another plane overshot a runway and burst into flames , leaving 21 dead .
Indonesia 's Transportation Minister Hatta Radjasa defended the country 's safety initiatives Tuesday during a lunch with the Jakarta Foreign Correspondents ' Club .
He said enforcement has been stepped up after the recent airplane disasters .
World leaders and diplomats are uniting to condemn Saturday 's deadly suicide bombings on the Indonesian resort island of Bali .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice denounced the attacks and said the United States stands with Indonesia as it works to bring the perpetrators to justice .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says his government is ready to help in any way possible , while Australian Prime Minister John Howard accused the attackers of trying to undermine Indonesia 's moderate government .
A U.N. spokesman says Secretary-General Kofi Annan is " dismayed " that Bali is again the scene of an attack , and he urged authorities to promptly bring the perpetrators of what he called a " cowardly attack " to justice .
Leaders of Japan , the Philippines , New Zealand , Singapore , Germany , France and other nations around the globe have also condemned the attacks .
In Iran , a gunman on a motorcycle has shot dead a judge trying the high-profile case of jailed Iranian journalist Akbar Ganji .
A judiciary spokesman says the judge , Massoud Moghaddasi , was shot Tuesday while he was leaving his office in Tehran .
The judge has been presiding over the case of Mr. Ganji , who has been in jail since 2001 for publishing articles implicating government officials in the murders of prominent dissidents .
Mr. Ganji currently is in custody at a Tehran hospital .
His family says his health is rapidly deteriorating because he has been on a hunger strike for more than 50 days .
Leaders from northern and southern Sudan are holding negotiations on how to run the country after next year 's referendum that will determine if the south becomes an independent state .
Tuesday 's talks are focusing on a range of unresolved issues between the two sides -- including demarcating the border , citizenship and the sharing of oil revenues and Nile water resources .
The semi-autonomous south is scheduled to hold a referendum January 9 on whether to become an independent state .
The vote was a key part of the 2005 agreement ending Sudan 's north-south civil war .
Much of Sudan 's oil wealth is believed to lie along the disputed border .
The oil-rich Abyei region holds a separate referendum January 9 on whether to be part of the north or the south .
The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world 's most heavily trafficked sea routes , between and within the Eastern and Western Hemispheres .
Other economic activity includes the exploitation of natural resources , e.g. , fishing , dredging of aragonite sands ( The Bahamas ) , and production of crude oil and natural gas ( Caribbean Sea , Gulf of Mexico , and North Sea ) .
Following World War I , France acquired a mandate over the northern portion of the former Ottoman Empire province of Syria .
The French administered the area as Syria until granting it independence in 1946 .
The new country lacked political stability , however , and experienced a series of military coups during its first decades .
Syria united with Egypt in February 1958 to form the United Arab Republic .
In September 1961 , the two entities separated , and the Syrian Arab Republic was reestablished .
In November 1970 , Hafiz al-ASAD , a member of the Socialist Ba'th Party and the minority Alawite sect , seized power in a bloodless coup and brought political stability to the country .
In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War , Syria lost the Golan Heights to Israel .
During the 1990s , Syria and Israel held occasional peace talks over its return .
Following the death of President al-ASAD , his son , Bashar al-ASAD , was approved as president by popular referendum in July 2000 .
Syrian troops - stationed in Lebanon since 1976 in an ostensible peacekeeping role - were withdrawn in April 2005 .
During the July-August 2006 conflict between Israel and Hizballah , Syria placed its military forces on alert but did not intervene directly on behalf of its ally Hizballah .
In May 2007 Bashar al-ASAD was elected to his second term as president .
Influenced by major uprisings that began elsewhere in the region , antigovernment protests broke out in the southern province of Da'ra in March 2011 and spread to other Syrian cities .
Protesters called for the repeal of the restrictive Emergency Law allowing arrests without charge , the legalization of political parties , and the removal of corrupt local officials .
The government responded with a mix of force and concessions , including the repeal of the Emergency Law , but as of mid-April 2011 had not succeeded in quelling protests .
The European Union has insisted that Poland restructure the historic Gdansk shipyard , site of protests that led to the formation of the Solidarity labor union .
EU officials said Tuesday that the Gdansk shipyard must streamline its operations or repay hefty state subsidies , to come into line with rules allowing subsidies only for businesses working toward long-term sustainability .
Trade unions object to proposed changes at the shipyard , saying they will eliminate hundreds of jobs .
The Gdansk shipyard is the location where labor leader Lech Walesa led a strike that led to government recognition for the Solidarity labor union , a major development in the eventual collapse of European communism .
About 100 Polish workers demonstrated outside EU headquarters in Brussels last week to protest plans to restructure the shipyard .
It was the 27th anniversary of the ratification of the agreement that led to Solidarity 's creation .
The U.S. military says it has begun a major security operation in Iraq 's western al-Anbar province .
The operation includes an overnight curfew in the provincial capital , Ramadi , and increased security measures in several cities along the Euphrates River , including Hit , Baghdadi , and Hadithah .
Iraqi security forces are said to be assisting with the operation , dubbed Operation River Blitz .
A statement from U.S. Marine Major-General Richard Natonski says the Iraqi government asked for the operation .
Ramadi , located 110 kilometers west of Baghdad , has been a stronghold of insurgents fighting U.S. and Iraqi security forces .
Separately , the U.S. military says a Marine was killed in al-Anbar during a security operation on Saturday .
Insurgents killed at least 40 people in attacks in and around Baghdad on Saturday .
Dominican authorities have quarantined and sacrificed a number of birds after detecting a strain of bird flu last month .
The World Organization for Animal Health said in a report that 130 birds were slaughtered after authorities discovered a case of the virus near the capital , Santo Domingo , and another some 145 kilometers to the east in the village of Higüey .
Officials say the virus is the H5N2 strain , which does not affect humans .
Government livestock director Angel Faxas said officials believe the virus reached the Dominican Republic through birds introduced into the country illegally .
The World Health Organization reports that the more virulent H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed 216 people worldwide since 2003 .
Iranian authorities have shut down two Kurdish language newspapers in northwestern Iran , a day after at least 11 people were killed in that region during a clash between Kurdish demonstrators and Iranian police .
The official Iranian news agency ( IRNA ) quotes the managing editor of the bilingual ( Kurdish and Iranian ) Ashti daily Thursday as saying a provincial court ordered the temporary closure of the paper .
A Kurdish journalist in the region told VOA 's Kurdish service that a second paper , Aso , also was shut down because it reported on the recent wave of anti-Iranian protests in Iran 's northern Kurdish region .
The killing last month of a Kurdish activist by Iranian security forces sparked demonstrations , some of them violent , in several predominantly Kurdish cities in northwestern Iran .
A Turkish court has jailed five suspects pending trial in the killing of three people at a Christian publishing house last week .
No trial date has been set .
The court also released Sunday six other people who were in custody .
It is unclear what charges they faced .
A German citizen and two Turks who had converted to Christianity were killed in the attack in Malatya .
They were found bound to chairs with their throats slit .
At least one of the victims also had several stab wounds .
Representatives of Turkey 's small Protestant community have blamed the killings on growing intolerance towards Christians and missionaries .
The Catholic and Greek Orthodox churches have condemned the attack , as has Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer , who said there can be no justification for it .
Taleban militants have attacked a convoy in southern Afghanistan , killing up to 13 Afghan guards and wounding others who worked for a private security firm .
Officials said Monday that the convoy was attacked late Sunday on the road from the capital , Kabul , to Kandahar .
That is the same road where a group of 23 South Korean Christian evangelicals was abducted on July 19 and where two Germans were kidnapped in a separate incident .
Sunday 's attack led to a long gun battle with insurgents that resulted in the death of five Taleban militants .
The Pakistani Taliban says it is open to holding talks with the country 's newly elected government .
A spokesman for the militant group Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan , Maulvi Omar , says the group is ready to cooperate with the government and bring peace to tribal areas .
However , he urged Pakistani officials to end their cooperation with U.S.-led forces that are fighting an insurgency in neighboring Afghanistan .
On Saturday , Pakistan 's newly-elected Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said that fighting terrorism will be his government 's top priority , but added that he is willing to talk to militants who are ready to lay down their arms .
Pakistan has suffered from a series of recent attacks blamed on al-Qaida and Taliban militants operating in the country 's tribal regions .
The United Nations Security Council is considering a 12-month extension of the peacekeeping force in Haiti .
The council met Monday but did not reach a decision about the force 's mandate , which is due to expire February 15 .
Former U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan had called for a 12-month extension before leaving his post last year .
After Monday 's meeting , Russia 's U.N. ambassador Vitaly Churkin said that some of the council 's 15 members continue to oppose extending the force .
There are almost 8,000 U.N. peacekeepers in Haiti currently working to root out violent gangs .
The peacekeepers were deployed in 2004 after former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was ousted in an uprising .
Luxembourg voters will cast ballots Sunday in a referendum on the European Union 's troubled constitution .
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker , who has been a strong promoter of passage of the constitution , has threatened to resign if Luxembourg voters reject it .
A June opinion poll showed 45 percent of respondents oppose the constitution .
The Luxembourg vote comes despite the postponement of referendums in Britain , Denmark , Portugal , Sweden and Finland .
French and Dutch voters rejected the constitution in referendums , placing the future of the pact in doubt .
EU leaders put the constitution issue on hold at a meeting last month in response to the rejections .
The constitution requires unanimous backing from all 25 member nations .
So far , 11 countries have ratified the document .
Singapore has a highly developed and successful free-market economy .
It enjoys a remarkably open and corruption-free environment , stable prices , and a per capita GDP higher than that of most developed countries .
The economy depends heavily on exports , particularly in consumer electronics , information technology products , pharmaceuticals , and on a growing financial services sector .
Real GDP growth averaged 7.1 % between 2004 and 2007 .
The economy contracted 1.3 % in 2009 as a result of the global financial crisis , but rebounded nearly 14.7 % in 2010 , on the strength of renewed exports .
Over the longer term , the government hopes to establish a new growth path that focuses on raising productivity , which has sunk to 1 % growth per year in the last decade .
Singapore has attracted major investments in pharmaceuticals and medical technology production and will continue efforts to establish Singapore as Southeast Asia 's financial and high-tech hub .
The White House is reported ready to eliminate funding to service the Hubble Space Telescope and has directed the U.S. space agency NASA to focus on de-orbiting the popular spacecraft .
According to a report by the online news service space.com Friday , NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe will announce the decision to scrap the repair mission when he reveals the space agency 's 2006 budget request in February .
The Earth-orbiting observatory has operated continuously for 14 years , providing incredibly sharp celestial images that have made significant contributions to astronomical research .
NASA has been unable to complete the final repair mission for Hubble due to the grounding of the space shuttle fleet following the destruction of the Space Shuttle Columbia in February 2003 .
Sources say lawmakers are likely to try to restore funding to repair the telescope , which has widespread support .
Ethiopia says scores of birds found dead recently have tested negative for the bird flu .
A spokesman for Ethiopia 's Agriculture Ministry , Mulgueta Debalk , says the birds that were tested died of the Newcastle virus , which is common among fowl but harmless to humans .
Ethiopia tested a total of 62 birds after hundreds of pigeons , chickens and other birds were found dead in various parts of the country several weeks ago .
Ethiopia and other African nations have been watching for any sign of the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus .
The virus has killed more than 70 people in Asia since 2003 .
There are fears that migratory birds could carry it to Africa .
The virus has already been found in birds in Europe and the Middle East .
Insurgents in Iraq have launched new attacks Thursday on police and U.S. troops , killing at least 17 people .
In the deadliest blast , witnesses say a suicide bomber , dressed in a police uniform , drove into the compound of the Tikrit police headquarters and detonated his vehicle .
The massive explosion in Saddam Hussein 's hometown killed at least 12 people , wounded 35 , and set a dozen cars on fire .
South of the capital , in Iskandariya , an explosion near a police convoy killed two policemen and at least one civilian .
Despite the continued violence against Iraqi police , nearly 2,000 new recruits , including 46 women , graduated this week from police training courses in Sulaymaniyeh and Baghdad .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says two American soldiers were killed and another two were wounded in separate roadside bombings north of Baghdad .
The word tattoo is most often associated with artwork on someone 's body .
But it also a military tradition dating back to the 17th century of calling soldiers or sailors back to their quarters at night with a drum or bugle .
Each year that tradition is recreated in Washington in a weekly sunset military pageant known as the " Twilight Tattoo " .
VOA 's Jeff Feuer has more on this storied tradition .
A conservative Iranian lawmaker says some senior clerics want President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to reconsider his nomination of three women for his new cabinet .
Lawmaker Mohammad Taqi Rahbar heads the clerical faction in Iran 's conservative-dominated parliament .
He said it is an innovative idea to choose women as ministers , but that there are what he called " religious uncertainties " about women when it comes to management .
He says the government should consider these .
Mr. Ahmadinejad named Fatemah Ajorlu as minister of welfare and social security , Marziyeh Vahid-Dastjerdi as minister of health and Susan Keshavarz as minister of education .
Iranian lawmakers have warned they may challenge President Ahmadinejad 's picks for his new cabinet .
Parliament must approve his nominees .
Mr. Ahmadinejad won a second term as president in an election in June .
His re-election was fiercely disputed , and sparked massive opposition protests that led security forces to detain thousands .
Iran 's new hard-line President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has presented his proposed cabinet to parliament , triggering what is expected to be lengthy debate over the qualifications of the 21 nominees .
In an address Sunday , the president said he has nominated " strong , brave and expert " people .
However , some analysts have questioned whether acting Tehran Mayor Ali Saeedlou has the experience to manage Iran 's Oil Ministry .
Debate is expected to last through much of the week .
Mr. Ahmadinejad also lashed out at Western governments that maintain economic ties with Iran while opposing its nuclear program .
It is widely assumed the president was referring to Britain , France and Germany - key trading partners who called an emergency session of the International Atomic Energy Agency earlier this month over Iran 's plans to restart its nuclear fuel program .
Mediators at peace talks between Sudan 's government and southern rebels say the two sides will sign a permanent cease-fire on Friday .
Negotiators say the deal will be signed at 1200 GMT ( 3:00 p.m. local time ) in the Kenyan town of Naivasha , where peace talks have yielded several partial agreements .
However , mediators say the permanent truce will not be a final deal to end 21 years of civil war .
They say a comprehensive accord will likely be signed in early January .
Both the Sudanese government and the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Army have promised to conclude a final settlement by the end of this year .
Meanwhile , South Africa 's President Thabo Mbeki arrived in the Sudanese capital , Khartoum , Thursday .
He is expected to hold talks with Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir on the peace negotiations .
U.S. President Barack Obama is calling on Congress to pass legislation that will reform the credit card industry and make it more fair and transparent to consumers .
In his weekly address Saturday , Mr. Obama said consumers too often get " ripped off " by credit card companies that impose sudden rate hikes , unfair penalties and hidden fees .
The president says consumers also should not have to fear that any new credit card is going to come with strings attached and need a magnifying glass and reference book to read an application .
President Obama called for lawmakers in Washington to craft a bill that will address what he described as the credit card industry 's " anything goes approach . "
Mr. Obama urged lawmakers to have a bill ready for him to sign by Memorial Day on May 25 .
Kyrgyzstan 's deposed President Askar Akayev says he fled the country two weeks ago in order to prevent civil war .
In a video-taped resignation speech , which was played in the Kyrgyz parliament Thursday , Mr. Akayev said he did not " stain his hands with the blood of his countrymen " and left office with a clear conscience .
The video was recorded earlier this week in Moscow , where a delegation of Kyrgyz lawmakers negotiated Mr. Akayev 's resignation .
The Kyrgyz parliament is due to vote later today to accept the resignation , clearing the way for new presidential election set for June 26 .
Meanwhile , Kyrgyzstan 's Supreme Court annulled one of two criminal convictions against former opposition leader Felix Kulov , and agreed to consider a third conviction against him .
If that verdict is also overturned , Mr. Kulov will be able to run for president .
North Korea has issued a demand for the United States to treat it as a nuclear power awhile accusing Washington of hypocrisy for overlooking Israel 's presumed possession of nuclear weapons .
An editorial published Sunday in the official newspaper Rodong Sinmun said the resolution of the nuclear standoff will be possible only when the United States gives up its unfair and prejudiced double standard .
North Korea says it wants to be treated like Israel , a country widely believed to have nuclear weapons without having signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
North Korea 's statement comes as the six party talks , including both Koreas , China , Russia , Japan and the United States , on Pyongyang 's nuclear program are about to resume .
While no date has been set , the talks are expected to begin in November .
President Bush called Afghan President Hamid Karzai from the White House earlier Thursday to reaffirm the strong relationship shared between the two countries .
According to the White House , the two leaders discussed ongoing security operations against extremist elements .
They also spoke about efforts to implement security , governance , and economic development and reconstruction in war-shattered Afghanistan .
The White House says the issue of counter-narcotics efforts was also raised .
Afghanistan is the world 's number one producer of opium .
The White House said both presidents will continue to work together to build a prosperous Afghanistan and fight the global war on terror .
Mr. Karzai is considered a key ally in the U.S. war against terrorism .
There are some 26,000 U.S. troops currently deployed in Afghanistan , helping NATO fight Taleban militants and work on reconstruction projects .
A Yemeni government Web site says the leader of Yemen 's Zaidi Shi'ite rebels may have been fatally wounded in a recent government airstrike .
A message on a Defense Ministry Web site Sunday says there are increasing reports about the death of Abdul-Malik al-Houthi .
The Web site says there are reports that he was severely wounded and died from his injuries and has already been buried in Jabel Tolan in the northern Malaheeth area .
The rebels did not immediately comment on the report .
Yemen has been intensifying its operations against rebels and suspected al-Qaida terrorists , conducting a series of airstrikes and other raids that it says resulted in militant deaths and arrests .
Yemen 's government and Houthi rebels have been battling sporadically since 2004 .
Australian counter-terrorism officers have raided several homes after an investigation revealed that Islamic extremists were planning attacks in Sydney and Melbourne .
Police officials say security forces conducted raids Wednesday in the two cities .
They gave no other details .
Australian media reports said police raided four houses in Melbourne and two in Sydney after the government 's spy agency uncovered a plot to attack the famed Sydney Opera House and Harbor Bridge .
The reports said six people were detained for questioning .
Australia has had no major terrorist attacks on its soil , but 88 Australians were among the 202 victims of the Bali bombings in Indonesia in 2002 .
Militant groups have also vilified Australia for its support of the U.S.-led invasion in Iraq .
U.S. government agents have arrested two men and detained two others as part of an ongoing terrorism investigation in the western U.S. state of California .
One of those arrested , 22-year-old Hamid Hayat , is accused of training at an al-Qaida camp in Pakistan and then lying about it to FBI agents .
His father , Umer Hayat , is charged with lying about and financing his son 's alleged terrorist activity .
The Los Angeles Times newspaper quotes a family member as denying the charges .
The two men made brief appearances in a U.S. district court on Tuesday .
Both are U.S. citizens who live in the town of Lodi .
Media reports say as part of the investigation , federal agents have also detained two local Islamic leaders , Muhammed Adil Khan and Shabbir Ahmed .
Both are being held for alleged immigration violations .
Venezuela 's largest opposition party , Democratic Action , has pulled out of Sunday 's parliamentary elections , saying the electoral council is biased .
Party leader Henry Ramos Tuesday said election officials favor President Hugo Chavez and can not be trusted to provide a fair vote .
He denied accusations that the opposition is acting in the interests of the U.S. government .
Other opposition parties are also said to be considering pulling out of the election .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel has denied the accusations and insists the elections will be fair .
Electoral officials said this week they will remove fingerprinting machines at polling stations , after opposition leaders suggested they could compromise voter privacy .
Security officials say two Turkish soldiers have died in clashes with Kurdish fighters in southeastern Turkey .
The officials did not release more detail about the fighting in Kurdish-populated areas near the border with Iraq .
Fighting between Turkish soldiers and the Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK has increased in recent months .
In July , Kurdish rebels killed at least 15 Turkish troops in southeastern Turkey .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said then that Turkey had the right to mount an offensive against PKK bases in northern Iraq .
The United States opposes a Turkish raid into Iraq and has urged Turkey to work with the U.S. to address the PKK threat .
The PKK began its battle for autonomy in 1984 .
More than 30,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
The United Nations has advised its aid agencies to avoid political contacts with the Hamas-led Palestinian government .
But U.N. officials say the new policy allows aid to continue flowing to the Palestinians .
The United States and European Union consider Hamas a terrorist organization and have frozen aid until Hamas renounces violence and recognizes Israel 's right to exist .
Russia says that 's a mistake .
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov says stopping aid to the Hamas-led government will further destabilize the region .
He says the only way to ensure that Hamas meets Western demands is to engage its leadership .
Earlier Tuesday , six Palestinian legislators went to Iran on a mission to win financial support for the Palestinians .
The Hamas-led government says it is broke .
In the West Bank Tuesday , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said conditions in the Palestinian territories are deteriorating rapidly as the Western sanctions take hold .
The United Nations mission in Haiti has condemned the kidnapping and murder of a journalist in Port-au-Prince .
In a statement issued Friday , the mission called the murder of reporter Jacques Roche a " brutal and vile " act and an attack on freedom of the press .
Haitian authorities discovered Mr. Roche 's body Thursday , four days after he was abducted at gunpoint .
They said he was burned and tortured and then shot several times .
The journalist worked for Le Matin newspaper and was a commentator at Radio Ibo in the capital .
He also hosted a television show for dozens of civic groups that contributed to President Jean-Bertrand Aristide 's ouster in February of last year .
Haiti has seen a mounting wave of violence as it prepares for elections later this year .
Poor weather conditions have forced postponement of talks between top Georgian officials and representatives of the country 's breakaway region of Abkhazia .
Georgian State Minister for Conflict Resolution Giorgi Khaindrava had planned to travel to Abkhazia 's Gali district for talks with the breakaway region 's Interior Minister Sergei Khamba .
The discussions , which had been expected to focus on security issues in the area , have been rescheduled for next week .
Abkhazia has acted as an independent state since it drove Georgian troops out of the region in the early 1990s .
However , it is not recognized by other countries and Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has pledged to bring it under central government control .
Syrian officials say an Islamic militant blew himself up after being stopped at a crossing on the Lebanese border .
They say the man , Omar Hamra , was the leader of the Islamic militant group al-Tawhid Wal Jihad .
Syrian security officials say they stopped him at the Jdaydet Yabous border point , which he was trying to cross with fake documents .
They say the militant shot at police before blowing himself up .
The incident comes at a time of increased tension between Lebanon 's pro- and anti-Syrian politicians .
The pro-Syrian Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah says it is planning massive demonstrations this week against the country 's government .
Hezbollah postponed the protests last week following Thursday 's assassination of anti-Syrian politician Pierre Gemayel .
Serbian prosecutors say authorities have detained four new suspects in connection with the killing of three American brothers of ethnic Albanian origin during the Kosovo conflict .
Serbian news media identify the suspects as former and serving policemen , including the deputy commander of an elite police unit .
Prosecutors linked the men to the executions of the three Bytyqi brothers ( Illy , Mehmet and Agron ) , American citizens who went to Kosovo in 1999 to help ethnic Albanians fighting Yugoslav and Serbian forces in the province .
Serbian authorities arrested the three on charges of illegally entering the country .
Prosecutors say Serbian police later took the brothers away and executed them , dumping their bodies into a mass grave with other ethnic Albanians .
The remains were found in 2001 .
Two former Serbian policemen are currently on trial for the killings .
U.S. authorities have called on Serbia to punish those responsible .
Bolivian President Evo Morales has declared a national disaster in the Andean country following heavy rains and flooding that have killed at least 50 people in recent weeks .
Mr. Morales issued the decree Tuesday to release government aid to flooded areas .
On Monday , he toured the hard-hit city of Trinidad , where officials have pitched tents to accommodate people fleeing the town 's flooded outskirts .
Officials say the flooding has affected some 45,000 families across Bolivia .
U.S. military officials say five more American troops have died in Iraq , raising the number of U.S. troops killed in Iraq this month to 18 .
U.S. officials in Baghdad said Monday that an American helicopter crashed in northern Iraq , killing two soldiers on board .
A military statement said no enemy fire was observed when the helicopter went down in Salaheddin province .
An investigation into the crash is under way .
The military also reported another three American troops were killed in combat in western Iraq 's Anbar province .
The three Americans - two Marines and one Army soldier - were fatally wounded during fighting Saturday and Sunday .
In other news , the U.S. military says coalition ground troops south of Baghdad Sunday killed an insurgent with links to a senior al-Qaida in Iraq leader .
The U.S. space agency NASA has announced it is going to try to launch the space shuttle Atlantis Friday .
The launch is scheduled for late Friday morning local time at Cape Canaveral , Florida .
Failure to launch the shuttle this week could delay the mission until October .
The Atlantis launch has already been postponed several times , both because of poor weather and for technical reasons .
Astronauts on the mission are expected to attach a 17-ton addition to the International Space Station .
It will include a new set of giant solar energy panels that will reach 80 meters in length when fully unfurled .
Construction on the space station stopped after the shuttle Columbia disaster in February 2003 forced a long moratorium on shuttle flights .
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces , making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk .
The Oak said with a sigh , " I do not care about the blows of the axe aimed at my roots , but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by these wedges made from my own branches . "
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear .
With U.S. legislative elections scheduled for November seventh , both Republicans and Democrats used their weekly radio addresses Saturday to highlight major points in their campaign platforms .
President Bush said the tax cuts put in place by his administration are contributing to the growth of the U.S. economy .
He said Democrats will raise taxes if they gain control of Congress in the upcoming mid-term legislative elections .
Democrat Jim Webb , who is in a tight race for one of Virginia 's U.S. Senate seats , said President Bush 's decisions in Iraq have undercut the fight against terrorism .
He said a Democratic Congress would demand that the president find what he called " the real way forward " in Iraq .
Democrats hope to regain ground in both the House of Representatives and the Senate .
Currently the Republicans control both .
A leading Democratic U.S. Senator said the situation is getting worse in Iraq , where militants have continued to carry out deadly attacks despite Iraqi and U.S. military campaigns against them .
Senator Joe Biden told CBS Television on Sunday that Iraq is becoming a training ground for terrorists .
His opinion was echoed by Republican Senator Chuck Hagel , who told U.S. News and World Report magazine the White House is , in his words , " completely disconnected from reality " about the situation in Iraq .
But Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told Fox News Channel there has been " a lot of progress " in Iraq .
She pointed to the recent arrest of a suspected lieutenant of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , who U.S. officials believe is leading al-Qaida in Iraq .
Mr. Rice also said the growing strength and sophistication of Iraqi security forces will gradually lessen the burden of the U.S.-led coalition .
U.S. and Iraqi troops met sporadic resistance Saturday at the start of a new offensive against insurgents in western Iraq .
The U.S. military says 2,500 U.S. service members and a thousand Iraqi soldiers are participating in the operation , dubbed " Steel Curtain . "
U.S. jets have carried out nine airstrikes on insurgent strong holds , killing an unconfirmed number of suspected al-Qaida in Iraq militants .
There have been no reports of Iraqi or American fatalities .
The military says it is providing temporary shelter , food and security to about 400 displaced residents from the Husaybah area , affected by the offensive .
The operation aims to restore security along the porous Iraqi-Syrian border and destroy the al-Qaida in Iraq network which operates in the Euphrates River Valley .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the new U.S. human rights envoy for North Korea will have the opportunity to highlight the communist country 's pressing rights issues .
Ms. Rice said envoy Jay Lefkowitz will also be able to find out what the United States can do with the rest of the world to improve humanitarian conditions and the rights situation in North Korea .
Ms. Rice made the comments in Washington before meeting with the U.S. envoy .
Also Tuesday , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw met in London with a former North Korean labor camp prisoner and accused Pyongyang of " despicable " human rights abuses .
Mr. Straw said former prisoner Kang Cheol Hwan 's eyewitness accounts of forced labor , public executions , and near-starvation rations show what he called the " outrages " committed by the regime .
Reaction from Pyongyang was not immediately available .
The United States is urging Iran to grant consular access to jailed Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi .
A U.S. State Department spokesman , Gordon Duguid , told reporters on Wednesday that the U.S. is pushing for the access through Swiss diplomats who represent U.S. interests in Tehran .
Iranian authorities arrested Saberi in January , accusing her of working illegally in the country after her press credentials were revoked .
She is being held in Tehran 's Evin prison .
The journalist met with a lawyer in Tehran earlier this month .
The spokesman says State Department officials spoke with Saberi 's father on Wednesday and that he and U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are very concerned about Saberi 's well-being , The Committee to Protect Journalists said Wednesday it was alarmed by a news report in which Saberi was quoted as saying she might remain in prison for " months or even years . "
Israeli troops have killed a senior Islamic Jihad commander in a shoot-out in the West Bank .
Monday 's killing of Luay Saadi and his deputy prompted calls from the militant group for revenge attacks .
Islamic Jihad leaders say the Israeli operation in Tulkarem threatens an agreement by Palestinian militant groups to stop attacks on Israeli targets .
Israel says Mr. Saadi was behind several attacks that have killed at least 10 Israelis since February .
Meanwhile , the Palestinian Authority says it plans to immediately disarm members of another militant group in the West Bank , the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade .
The chief of police in the West Bank , Taher Zaid , says most members of the militant group will be trained to join Palestinian security forces .
But leading al-Aqsa commanders say they doubt their men will turn in their weapons until Israel leaves the West Bank .
Indian officials say a seven-story bulding has collapsed in the financial capital , Mumbai , killing at least 22 people and injured nine others .
Authorities say at least 10 people may still be trapped in the rubble , more than 12 hours after the collapse late Wednesday .
Rescue workers are sifting the debris and using cranes to remove concrete .
The cause of the collapse is not yet known .
The United Nations mission in Congo has confirmed that foreign troops crossed into the eastern part of the country last month .
The U.N. did not say if the troops were Rwandan forces , as the Congolese government alleges , or if the foreign troops are still in Congo .
But in a statement issued late Friday , the mission said U.N. peacekeepers are convinced foreign troops entered Congo the day after Rwanda threatened to invade the country on November 23 .
The United Nations also said that mutinous soldiers in eastern Congo have received arms from outside the country .
Congo accuses Rwanda of backing the rebels , who began fighting with the Congolese army last week in the eastern town of Kanyabayonga .
Rwanda has denied any involvement , but has repeatedly insisted it has the right to send troops into Congo to disarm Hutu fighters responsible for Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
German lawmakers questioned Wednesday government ministers about the CIA abduction of a German citizen who was suspected of being a terrorist .
Lawmakers discussed the case behind closed doors with the Justice , Interior , and Foreign ministers , seeking to determine what the government knew about the incident .
The ministers have denied a German role in the abduction .
Khaled al-Masri says CIA agents kidnapped him in Macedonia in December of 2003 and took him to Afghanistan for questioning .
He says he was tortured there during his five month detention and is suing the CIA .
The CIA is under fire in Europe over reports that it secretly flew terror suspects across the continent , and operated secret prisons in Eastern Europe to house and question the suspects .
The Iranian embassy in Lebanon says four Iranians , including three diplomats , who disappeared in Beirut in 1982 are still alive and are being held in Israel .
An embassy statement called for their release in a statement Thursday marking the 26th anniversary of their disappearance .
It says Iran has information indicating Israel has detained the four .
The son of one of the missing Iranians Thursday said former prisoners in Israel have confirmed seeing the four alive in Israeli jails .
Tehran says militants from the Christian Lebanese Forces kidnapped the four in Beirut during the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon .
The militant group has said they died in Lebanon .
The embassy statement comes a day after the leader of Lebanon 's Hezbollah opposition , Hassan Nasrallah , said Israel would provide the group with information on the fate of the four Iranians as part of a prisoner exchange deal .
Turkish officials say a man fired shots at security guards after being prevented from entering the offices of the head of Turkey 's Higher Education Board .
They say the unidentified assailant tried to enter by force the office of Erdogan Tezic .
The man fled the scene , and there were no reports of injuries .
Tezic , a strict secularist , has been highly critical of Turkey 's ruling AK Party .
The Islamist-rooted party announced Foreign Minister Adbullah Gul as their presidential candidate Tuesday .
Clashes in southern Afghanistan have killed at least 30 Taliban fighters , including one Taliban commander .
The Afghan Defense Ministry says the operation took place Wednesday in southern Helmand province , a region where Taliban militants are highly active .
Afghan officials say a coalition of Afghan and foreign special forces mounted coordinated attacks on insurgent cells in the Musa Qala region .
Authorities say coalition aircraft bombed militant cells during a five-hour battle .
No coalition casualties were reported .
Separately , a roadside bomb in Helmand hit a British patrol , killing one soldier and wounding four others .
China has announced a double-digit increase in military spending and has issued a strong warning to Taiwan .
Jamila Trindle reports from Beijing .
China has announced plans to increase military spending by almost 18 percent , to more than $ 58 billion dollars for 2008 .
National People 's Congress spokesman Jiang Enzhu says most of the increase will cover higher prices and rising salaries .
" China 's military capability is solely for the purpose of safeguarding independence , sovereignty and territorial integrity , and it will not pose a threat to any country , " he said .
Jiang also warned Taiwan against holding a referendum on membership in the United Nations , saying Beijing sees that as a possible step toward independence .
Nigerian officials say gunmen kidnapped the principal of an ExxonMobil-sponsored school and killed her police escort and driver .
A police spokesman said Thursday the attack occurred Wednesday in Eket in the Niger Delta region .
The kidnap victim has been identified as Pegasus School Principal Lakshmi Tombush , an Indian national .
Authorities have not indicated if any ransom demands have been made .
Police are investigating the abduction .
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard .
One day by chance he found a tame Partridge for sale .
He purchased it and brought it home to be reared with his Gamecocks .
When the Partridge was put into the poultry-yard , they struck at it and followed it about , so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a stranger .
Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together and not separating before one had well beaten the other .
He then said to himself , " I shall no longer distress myself at being struck at by these Gamecocks , when I see that they can not even refrain from quarreling with each other . "
An Israeli official says Israel is considering plans to build a nuclear power station in its southern Negev desert .
Israel Army Radio quoted Infrastructure Minister Binyamin Ben-Elizer as saying he has the support of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and that the plan would be considered in coming months .
The construction of a nuclear power plant could draw renewed attention to what is widely believed to be Israel 's nuclear weapons program .
Following a policy that it calls " nuclear ambiguity , " Israel has never admitted nor denied having a nuclear weapons program .
The Pakistani government has imposed a ban on protests in the capital , Islamabad , ahead of a planned demonstration on Sunday against cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad .
The announcement of the ban by Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed follows a violent week of demonstrations in Pakistan .
Five people were killed this week , and at least four people were wounded Saturday when shots were fired during a protest in the town of Cheniot , in central Punjab province .
In a separate demonstration Saturday , thousands of Pakistani women rallied peacefully in Karachi .
In London , at least 10,000 Muslims converged on London 's Trafalgar Square .
The Muslim Action Committee organized Saturday 's protest in the British capital .
The uproar over the satirical cartoons also resulted in the deaths Friday of at least 11 people in Libya and the burning of the Italian consulate in Benghazi .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian presidential candidate Mahmoud Abbas say they are willing to meet .
In an interview with Newsweek Magazine published Sunday , Mr. Sharon said he will meet Mr. Abbas when Palestinian leaders are ready .
In a separate Newsweek interview , Mr. Abbas said he would be willing to meet the Israeli leader after the January ninth Palestinian presidential election .
Mr. Sharon also said he will work with the Palestinians to coordinate Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Abbas said Palestinians are rebuilding their security forces ahead of the Gaza withdrawal , which is slated for next year .
Mr. Abbas is backed by the powerful Fatah political faction and is viewed as a front-runner for the Palestinian presidency .
Arabic broadcaster Al-Jazeera has aired a new video in which al-Qaida 's deputy leader , Ayman al-Zawahri , says U.S. plans to reduce the number of troops in Iraq means victory for Islam .
On the tape , aired Friday , he calls on President Bush to confess that the United States has been defeated in Iraq and Afghanistan .
This is an apparent reference to the recent remarks by U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that the military will soon begin reducing its troop strength in Iraq .
The al-Qaida leader also says the United States will soon be defeated in Palestine , too .
The most recent videotape from al-Zawahri , aired by Al-Jazeera last October , called on Muslims to aid victims of the massive earthquake in Pakistan .
Officials in India Monday say a top U.S. diplomat will visit New Delhi this week to help resolve disputes about a U.S.-India nuclear agreement .
They say U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns will arrive in New Delhi on May 31 for two days of talks .
Critics of the deal in both countries say that their own governments are giving away too much .
The disputes threaten to undermine an agreement that would allow the U.S. to provide civilian nuclear technology to India .
If finalized , the deal would end three decades of sanctions on U.S. nuclear trade with India .
India wants assurances that the U.S. would continue supplying fuel for its nuclear plants even if India conducts another nuclear weapons test .
International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge has urged North and South Korea to form a unified team for the 2008 Olympic Games .
Rogge sent letters to the presidents of both Koreas on June 7 , to let them know he would do his best to help them field a single team for the Beijing Olympics .
It marks the first time the IOC president has asked the leaders of the two nations to cooperate in forming a unified team for the Games .
Inter-Korean sports leaders agreed in principle to field a single team for the 2008 Beijing Olympics in a meeting in March of 2003 .
But the two sides have not yet worked out the details .
Unification Minister Lee Jong-seok said Friday that North and South Korea will discuss the issue in the North Korean border city of Kaesong next Friday .
Health officials in Asia are reporting that the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus is suspected in the deaths of two people .
Hong Kong officials say a 32-year-old man who frequently visited markets where chickens were slaughtered died Thursday in Guangzhou on mainland China after showing symptoms of bird flu .
In Indonesia , officials said Saturday that local tests show a three-year-old boy has died of the deadly H5N1 virus in Central Java province .
Officials in both countries have sent samples to a World Health Organization-sanctioned laboratory in Hong Kong for confirmation that the pair had bird flu .
China has already had eight known deaths from the disease , while 20 people have died from H5N1 in Indonesia .
More than 90 people have died from the disease worldwide .
American terror suspect Jose Padilla was to appear in civil court Thursday to face criminal charges .
Mr. Padilla had been held in a military prison for more than three years without being charged before his transfer Thursday to Miami , Florida .
The Supreme Court agreed this week to let the Bush administration transfer Mr. Padilla , changing his status from what the White House calls " an enemy combatant " to a regular criminal suspect .
Mr. Padilla 's case has been the subject of numerous court rulings and his detention without charge has been condemned by human and civil rights groups .
Mr. Padilla was arrested on suspicion of plotting to set off a radioactive " dirty " bomb within the United States .
The U.S. Justice Department is opening a criminal investigation into the destruction of CIA videotapes of the interrogations of terrorist suspects .
Attorney General Michael Mukasey announced Wednesday that he is appointing federal prosecutor John Durham to conduct the investigation .
CIA director General Michael Hayden said last month that some videotapes of al-Qaida suspect interrogations , made in 2002 , had been destroyed in 2005 to protect the identities of the prosecutors .
Critics of the move accuse the CIA of destroying evidence of torture .
Also Wednesday , Thomas Keane and Lee Hamilton , heads of the U.S. commission that investigated the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States , published an editorial in the New York Times saying CIA officials unlawfully obstructed their investigation by failing to notify them that the videotapes existed .
The World Health Organization is still waiting for China to hand over tissue samples from bird flu outbreaks in poultry .
WHO officials say getting information on China 's 26 reported outbreaks in animals this year could help formulate effective vaccines and other prevention measures .
China has given no clear explanation of why it has not sent WHO the samples .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters Tuesday that China believes in international cooperation to deal with the threat of bird flu .
WHO 's regional director for the Western Pacific , Shigeru Omi says that seeing the tissue samples would allow researchers to know what changes the virus is undergoing , which would be crucial to developing an effective vaccine to contain the spread of the disease .
Tuesday , Turkey and Romania announced new bird flu outbreaks .
President George Bush is urging Congress to work together with him and approve new proposals to reduce America 's dependence on foreign oil and diversify its energy supply .
In his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush said energy policy was an area of great potential for bipartisan cooperation .
Mr. Bush called on Democrats to approve the budget he submitted to Congress earlier this week , which proposes $ 2.7 billion in spending for alternative energy research .
Mr. Bush says the budget is a key step toward reaching his national goal to reduce America 's gasoline consumption by 20 percent over the next 10 years .
On the supply side , Mr. Bush proposes raising mandatory fuel standards to require an increased use of renewable and alternative fuels .
On the demand side , he says he wants to raise fuel economy standards to make cars more energy efficient .
Reports from Japan say at least 100 people have died in snow-related accidents this season .
The toll includes a six-year-old boy who died Monday when snow from the roof of a day-care center fell on him as he played with friends in the facility 's playground .
The death toll is the highest since the winter of 1983 - 1984 when 131 people died in northern Japan .
Officials are warning that avalanches pose a danger as temperatures warm briefly this week .
Some areas are piled with nearly four meters of snow .
Two new reports Friday show the U.S. economy struggling , but perhaps moving toward recovery .
The number of unsold homes fell sharply in March as falling home prices and low interest rates attracted some buyers to the market .
However , the number of newly-built homes sold declined six-tenths of a percent .
A separate report showed U.S. manufacturing declining , but at a slower rate than experts predicted .
Orders for durable goods , expensive manufactured items intended to last several years , fell eight-tenths of a percent in March .
Many economists had predicted an even sharper fall for the month , and some interpret the new figures as a sign the decline is slowing and may turn around later this year .
Nepal says its soldiers backed by helicopters have raided a rebel camp in the remote western part of the country , killing at least 30 Maoist insurgents .
The military says the fighting erupted Wednesday in the mountainous Kailali district after the army , acting on a tip , ambushed the hideout .
Officials say they believe the rebels were about to launch an attack on an army post .
They say at least two soldiers were wounded in the clash , which lasted several hours .
Rebel violence has escalated in Nepal ahead of a January 13 deadline set by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for the insurgents to resume peace talks .
Maoist rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace the country 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
Somalia 's transitional parliament has fired its former speaker and 30 other lawmakers for failing to attend sessions in recent months .
The parliament had warned absent lawmakers in March that they would lose their seats if they did not begin showing up for meetings .
Those fired Tuesday include Sharif Hassan Sheik Aden , who was removed as speaker in January for holding unauthorized negotiations with the government 's Islamist rivals .
Witnesses say about 150 lawmakers approved Tuesday 's decision .
There was no immediate word on how many opposed it .
The parliament has 275 members in all .
It was formed in Kenya in 2004 as part of efforts to establish a new central Somali government .
That government has struggled to assert authority despite the intervention of Ethiopian troops who helped defeat the Islamists late last year .
Somalia has lacked an effective central government since warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
A Washington-based institute says half of the workforce in Los Angeles , California , is made up of immigrants , many of whom are unskilled and speak little English .
The Migration Policy Institute ( MPI ) reports the immigrant workforce lacks the skills needed to replace a large bloc of U.S. workers nearing retirement age , known as the baby boomer generation .
The group 's study also says Los Angeles is at the leading edge of a demographic trend taking place across the United States .
MPI reports that more than one-third of the 9.9 million people who live in Los Angeles County are immigrants .
It recommends more resources be devoted to the integration of immigrants into U.S. classrooms , workplaces and civic life .
The institute says Los Angeles can serve as a policy laboratory for other U.S. communities .
Leaders at a summit of more than 50 Muslim nations have promised to fight religious extremism and crack down on terrorist financing .
The Organization of the Islamic Conference made the pledges in a statement at the end of a two-day summit in the Saudi city of Mecca .
The statement called on Muslim schools to reject extremist ideas , and warned that fatwas , or religious edicts , should not be issued by unauthorized people .
The group also expressed concern at rising hatred against Muslims and Islam around the world .
Founded in 1969 , the conference is based in Saudi Arabia .
China 's President Hu Jintao received a royal welcome from Morocco on Monday , complete with a 21-gun salute and military bands .
Mr. Hu is on a short trip to Africa aimed at obtaining more oil for his country while increasing export opportunities for Chinese manufactured goods .
While in Rabat , the capital of Morocco , Mr. Hu and King Mohammed VI signed a package of accords covering trade , tourism , cultural and scientific cooperation .
Morocco is a significant trading partner for China , worth about $ 150 billion in 2005 .
However , Morocco has expressed concern about a growing trade imbalance , and China 's textile exports have cut into Morocco 's own textile industry .
Mr. Hu is scheduled to travel to Casablanca , Morocco 's commercial capital , on Tuesday before traveling on to Nigeria and Kenya .
A rights group has called on Thailand to investigate the use of lethal force by Thai soldiers against Burmese migrants , allegedly resulting in the deaths of three children .
New York-based Human Rights Watch said in a press release Friday that Thai soldiers fired on a truck carrying 13 undocumented migrant workers from Burma on February 25 after the driver failed to stop for inspection .
The rights group said it had obtained photos showing the truck riddled with bullet holes .
Brad Adams , Asia director at HRW , said the soldiers who fired into the truck , apparently without concern for who could be killed or wounded , need to face the consequences .
HRW also called on the Thai government to provide access for investigators and to ensure none of the survivors are deported to Burma while investigations are conducted .
The White House says President Bush sustained scrapes on his hands and arms after he collided with a local police officer during a bicycle ride at the site of the G-8 summit in Scotland .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters that Mr. Bush slid on a paved surface while cycling at a high speed at the Gleneagles resort on Wednesday .
He said the president required bandaging by his White House physician , but added that the incident did not affect Mr. Bush 's attendance at the official dinner marking the summit 's formal opening .
Mr. McClellan said the police officer was taken to a local hospital for treatment of what the spokesman said might be an ankle injury .
He said President Bush would call the officer to inquire about his condition .
An Uzbek opposition leader says at least 745 people were killed by government troops suppressing widespread unrest , which began last week in the eastern city of Andijan .
The head of the Free Peasants party , Nigara Khidoyatova , said Tuesday her group arrived at the figure by speaking to relatives of those killed , and that the count is continuing .
President Islam Karimov has denied that security forces opened fire on protesters , and blamed the violence on Islamic radicals trying to overthrow the government .
The French News Agency says the Uzbek foreign ministry is planning a visit by journalists and diplomats to the affected areas Wednesday
The United States has condemned the indiscriminate use of force against unarmed civilians in Uzbekistan .
A State Department spokesman said Monday the United States also condemns violence by the demonstrators , who stormed a prison , freeing as many as two thousand inmates , including Muslim extremists convicted of terrorism .
British authorities have started arresting thousands of failed Iraqi asylum seekers with plans to return them to Iraq .
The Home Office in London Tuesday said it is beginning to enforce a policy that was announced last year .
Officials say each deportation will take place on a case-by-case basis , and that no one will be sent back to areas of Iraq that are unstable or where they could face persecution .
Refugee groups say at least 43 Iraqis have been rounded up so far .
The groups say they are appalled at the British policy .
They say all of Iraq is unsafe .
Haiti 's highest court has ruled a Haitian-American businessman may run for president .
Five Supreme Court judges Tuesday unanimously ruled that Dumarsais Simeus could be included on a list of presidential candidates .
This overruled a decision by electoral authorities in September to bar his election run on the grounds that he holds U.S. citizenship .
Mr. Simeus argued that he was born in Haiti and his citizenship should not be an issue .
In an exclusive interview with VOA , Mr. Simeus heralded the Supreme Court 's ruling as a great decision for Haitian people around the world .
He added he was not surprised by the outcome .
Mr. Simeus has lived in the United States for more than 40 years and owns one of the country 's largest black-owned businesses , Texas-based Simeus Foods International .
November 's election will be the first since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide 's ouster in February 2004 .
Researchers say a gel or a cream that allows women to protect themselves from the AIDS virus may be available within the next few years .
Scientists are discussing the possible breakthrough at a conference in Cape Town , South Africa that began Sunday .
The gel or cream would contain microbicides , a product with an ingredient designed to kill the HIV virus during sexual intercourse .
More than a thousand scientists have gathered at the conference to study the progress being made .
Southern Africa has some of the world 's highest HIV infection rates .
The United Nations says HIV infection rates among pregnant women are 20 percent or higher in six southern African countries , including South Africa .
The others are Botswana , Lesotho , Namibia , Swaziland , and Zimbabwe .
Diplomatic sources say that pirates have seized a South Korean cargo ship off the coast of Somalia .
The sources say the ship was carrying at least eight South Korean crew members and a number of foreigners when pirates seized it Wednesday .
Somali pirates have attacked dozens of ships this year and are now believed to be holding 11 ships and their crews hostage .
Somali officials say the large ransoms being paid by ship owners are fueling the piracy .
The Somali government , fighting an Islamist insurgency , lacks the resources or power to stop the pirates .
The International Maritime Bureau advises ships traveling near Somalia to keep more than 200 nautical miles offshore and report any boats that look suspicious .
Cuban leader Fidel Castro , who has not been seen in public in more than 16 months because of ill health , says that he will not obstruct the rise of a new generation of leaders .
In a letter read on Cuban television Monday , Mr. Castro said his elemental duty is not to hold onto positions , or stand in the way of younger people .
It was the first suggestion from the 81-year-old Castro that he might step down permanently from the presidency .
He handed over power to his brother , Raul , in July 2006 to undergo surgery , but said the move was temporary .
He has yet to reclaim presidential powers .
Fidel Castro has since appeared in official photographs and videos and regularly is credited with essays on international themes .
Details of his health have been kept secret by the Cuban government .
The Cuban leader seized power in a 1959 revolution .
James Brown 's body was placed in a crypt March 10 at the Beech Island , South Carolina home of one of his daughters .
The soul great 's friends and family sang and released white balloons at the ceremony , presided over by the Rev. Al Sharpton .
It will not be the final resting place for " The Godfather Of Soul , " who died December 25 at age 73 .
Family members said a public mausoleum is being built , and its location will be announced once it is finished .
Brown 's children used their own money to erect the structure , as his estate has yet to be settled in court .
A French official says one of two mail bombs sent from Yemen last week to addresses in the United States was defused just 17 minutes before it was set to explode .
Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux , speaking Thursday on French television , provided no further details , nor did he say where he got the information about the timing .
But investigators who pulled Chicago-bound packages off cargo planes in Britain and the United Arab Emirates on Friday found bombs that were wired to cell phones , with the communication cards removed .
Separately Thursday , police in the Greek capital conducted a controlled explosion of a parcel bomb addressed to the French embassy .
No injuries were reported .
Pakistan has issued new regulations ordering its controversial madrassas , or Islamic seminaries , to register with the authorities or face closure .
President Pervez Musharraf issued an ordinance in the capital Islamabad on Thursday ordering all madrassas to register with the government before December 31 and submit annual reports and accounts .
The new law also bars Islamic seminaries from teaching or publishing any literature which promotes militancy or spreads religious hatred .
President Musharraf has also promised to expel some 1,400 foreign students from these madrassas .
General Musharraf came under international pressure after it was reported that at least two of the London suicide bombers had visited the Islamic country before the attacks last month and that one may have visited a madrassa .
The commander of U.S. troops in the Middle East has expressed concern about the performance of U.S.-trained Iraqi security forces .
General John Abizaid says the Iraqi forces are " not as mature as they need to be " to ensure security for the country 's January 30 elections .
He expressed special concern about the city of Mosul , where he said foreign fighters and members of the banned Baathist party are cooperating in attacks on police .
The military has ordered another 12,000 U.S. troops to Iraq in a bid to increase security .
General Abizaid made his comments Monday to reporters from the Blooomberg news service and the Washington Post newspaper .
The Post quotes him as saying if the Iraqi forces improve , the United States can think about " reshaping " its own forces , which other officers say may lead to a lower U.S. troop level .
The economy remains critically dependent on exports of shrimp and fish and on a substantial subsidy - about $ 650 million in 2009 - from the Danish Government , which supplies nearly 60 % of government revenues .
The public sector , including publicly owned enterprises and the municipalities , plays the dominant role in Greenland 's economy .
Greenland 's GDP contracted about 2 % in 2009 as a result of the global economic slowdown .
Budget surpluses turned to deficits beginning in 2007 and unemployment has risen .
During the last decade the Greenland Home Rule Government ( GHRG ) pursued conservative fiscal and monetary policies , but public pressure has increased for better schools , health care and retirement systems .
The Greenlandic economy has benefited from increasing catches and exports of shrimp , Greenland halibut and , more recently , crabs .
Due to Greenland 's continued dependence on exports of fish - which account for 82 % of exports - the economy remains very sensitive to foreign developments .
International consortia are increasingly active in exploring for hydrocarbon resources off Greenland 's western coast , and international studies indicate the potential for oil and gas fields in northern and northeastern Greenland .
In May 2007 a US aluminum producer concluded a memorandum of understanding with the Greenland Home Rule Government to build an aluminum smelter and a power generation facility , which takes advantage of Greenland 's abundant hydropower potential .
Within the area of mining , olivine sand continues to be produced and gold production has resumed in south Greenland .
Tourism also offers another avenue of economic growth for Greenland , with increasing numbers of cruise lines now operating in Greenland 's western and southern waters during the peak summer tourism season .
Witnesses in southwestern Somalia say an explosion has killed four Ethiopian troops and triggered gunfire that killed two Somali civilians .
Residents of Baidoa said Tuesday that a roadside bomb killed the Ethiopian soldiers late Monday .
The witnesses said other troops responded to the attack by opening fire , killing two civilian bystanders .
Baidoa is about 250 kilometers west of the capital , Mogadishu , and is the seat of the Somali parliament .
Ethiopian troops supporting Somalia 's government come under frequent attack from Islamist insurgents .
A joint government-Ethiopian offensive drove Islamists from power in southern Somalia in late 2006 .
Separately , officials said 10 people were killed and at least 11 wounded in a land dispute Monday in the southwestern Gedo region .
Disputes between rival clans over land and water are common in Somalia , which has not had a stable central government since 1991 .
The Democratic party used its weekly radio address to praise the accomplishments of the Democratic-led Congress in its first 100 working hours .
A leading member of the House of Representatives , Majority Whip Jim Clyburn , Saturday outlined the measures House members have approved - which include raising the federal minimum wage , lowering interest rates on student loans and expanding stem cell research .
Clyburn said the Democratic leadership in Congress , in his words , " reflects the diverse vision , experience and values of the American people . "
According to Clyburn , Democrats plan to address the Iraq war , global warming and the budget deficit in coming weeks .
In a separate radio address earlier Saturday , President Bush introduced aspects of his administration 's budget proposal .
The president urged Congress to enact wide-ranging reforms to boost the American economy and balance the budget .
Romania , which joined the European Union on 1 January 2007 , began the transition from Communism in 1989 with a largely obsolete industrial base and a pattern of output unsuited to the country 's needs .
The country emerged in 2000 from a punishing three-year recession thanks to strong demand in EU export markets .
Domestic consumption and investment have fueled strong GDP growth in recent years , but have led to large current account imbalances .
Romania 's macroeconomic gains have only recently started to spur creation of a middle class and address Romania 's widespread poverty .
Corruption and red tape continue to handicap its business environment .
Inflation rose in 2007 - 08 , driven in part by strong consumer demand and high wage growth , rising energy costs , a nation-wide drought affecting food prices , and a relaxation of fiscal discipline .
Romania 's GDP contracted markedly in the last quarter of 2008 as the country began to feel the effects of a global downturn in financial markets and trade , and GDP fell more than 7 % in 2009 , prompting Bucharest to seek a $ 26 billion emergency assistance package from the IMF , the EU , and other international lenders .
Drastic austerity measures , as part of Romania 's IMF-led agreement led to a further 1.9 % GDP contraction in 2010 .
The economy is expected to return to positive growth in 2011 .
The White House is denying Albanian media reports that an enthusiastic souvenir hunter stole President Bush 's watch from his wrist during a sea of handshaking Sunday near Tirana .
Dozens of Albanians shook the president 's hands and grabbed his arms during a stop in a town north of the capital .
Albanian television pictures show Mr. Bush wearing his watch as one man grasped his arm and seemed to grab at the timepiece .
Seconds later , the watch was gone .
Albanian newspapers and other media reports say the watch was stolen .
But the White House says the president paused for a moment to slip the watch in his pocket before plunging his hands back into the crowd .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson says U.S. financial regulations need modernization to match the growing size and complexity of financial institutions .
In a speech in Washington Monday , he suggested giving the U.S. central bank ( known as the Federal Reserve ) a larger role in stabilizing the economy , and more authority to demand information from banks and other institutions in exchange for government help during a crisis .
He also proposed a " prudential financial regulator " to watch over banks and insurance firms , and a " conduct of business " regulator to protect investors and consumers .
Paulson 's plan calls for consolidating regulatory agencies with the goal of simplifying and improving oversight of the financial system .
The proposals come as that system faces its most severe credit crisis in decades .
The new rules must be approved by Congress , and Paulson says they will generate " controversy and healthy debate . "
The leader of the U.S. opposition Democratic party says he believes the Republicans are going to make illegal immigration an issue in the 2006 midterm elections .
Howard Dean spoke Saturday in Phoenix , Arizona at a Democratic National Committee meeting , where he criticized President Bush 's approach to the issue .
A spokesman for the Republican National Committee , Tucker Bounds , responded by saying the Democrats are out of touch with voters on border security .
President Bush this past week addressed the issue of illegal immigration .
Mr. Bush said that while immigrants are important to the United States , the country must control its borders and enforce immigration law .
Gunners Football Club has moved to the top of Zimbabwe 's Premier Soccer League , displacing Dynamos which had headed the league table for some seeks .
But Gunners with 41 points is just one up on Dynamos with 40 .
Gunners Coach Moses “ Bambo ” Chunga told reporter Marvellous Mhlanga-Nyahuye of VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe that his team will do all it can to capture the title .
More reports from VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe ...
South Korea 's president says Tokyo must follow up on apologies for its wartime atrocities in the past with actions that reflect true contrition .
In a meeting with visiting Japanese members of Parliament Friday , President Roh Moo-hyun said Japan has " nullified " its previous apologies for World War II era atrocities by its recent actions .
His comments referred to Tokyo 's approval of a school textbook that minimizes Japan 's record of wartime aggression , as well as controversial visits by Mr. Koizumi and other political figures to the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo , widely seen as a symbol of Japanese militarism .
As long as such actions recur , Mr. Roh says , Seoul will find it hard to accept the sincerity of Japan 's words .
The Philippine military says government troops have captured two camps belonging to the Islamist Moro National Liberation Front , killing eight Muslim rebels .
Military officials say the raid took place on the southern island of Jolo in retaliation for an attack on a marine outpost near the town of Panamao Friday night , which left two soldiers and a child dead .
The officials say Sunday 's raid aimed to capture the Front 's commander Habier Malik and his followers .
Malik escaped to the jungles , but the military says he is now isolated and on his own .
Malik embarrassed the army in February when he held government and military leaders hostage .
The hostages were released unharmed .
The MNLF signed a truce with the government in 1996 , but relations have remained tense .
Some members of the MNLF are considered sympathetic to Abu Sayyaf , an al-Qaida-linked group active on Jolo island .
Nigerian authorities say four American hostages were released Wednesday after three weeks in captivity .
Gunmen captured the four contractors on May 9 in the country 's oil-producing Niger Delta region .
The men are employed by the U.S. oil company Chevron , which operates in the area .
Earlier this week , kidnappers released a Polish oil worker who was abducted near the southern Nigerian city of Warri .
Nearly 20 other foreigners remain in captivity in the Niger Delta .
Some kidnappings have been carried out by criminal gangs , while others are the work of militants who want impoverished local villages to get more of the region 's oil wealth .
More than 100 foreign oil workers have been kidnapped in the Niger Delta this year .
Most have been released unharmed , often after their employers paid a ransom .
Nigeria 's oil exports are down nearly 25 percent since last February because of the unrest .
Afghan officials say Afghan and NATO forces killed or wounded more than 50 Taliban insurgents in a large operation in southern Afghanistan Sunday .
The Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement Monday , that the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force backed up the Afghan National Army during the battle in Baluch village in Uruzgan province .
The ministry said 13 other militants were captured .
In southern Afghanistan , officials say a suicide bomber killed three people Monday , when he detonated himself near a police convoy .
Police say the attack took place in Lashkar Gah , capital of troubled Helmand Province .
A police official said at least five people were wounded in the attack .
Helmand province , the biggest opium producing region of Afghanistan , has endured a wave of Taliban-led violence this year .
Polish parliament has honored a 97-year-old Warsaw woman for saving the lives of 2,500 Jews during the Holocaust .
Polish senators Wednesday unanimously approved a resolution honoring Irena Sendler and the Polish Underground Council for assisting Jews .
President Lech Kaczynski told senators that Sendler was a great hero deserving of the Nobel Prize .
Sendler led a group that smuggled Jewish children out of the Warsaw Ghetto to safety until the Nazis arrested her in 1943 .
Israel 's Yad Vashem Holocaust Remembrance authority honored Sendler in 1965 awarding her one of its first medals for people who saved Jews During World War II .
The Nazis forced hundreds of thousands of Jews into the Warsaw Ghetto after they invaded Poland in 1939 .
They summarily executed people who were caught helping those held there .
The U.N. mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo says fighting resumed Thursday between dissident soldiers and government troops in the country 's east .
U.N. officials say troops loyal to dissident general Laurent Nkunda were battling government soldiers in North Kivu province .
The U.N. says clashes in the same area Wednesday killed at least 18 people .
Officials say the unrest has displaced thousands of local residents .
Congo 's government is struggling to rebuild following a civil war in which some four million people died , mostly from hunger and disease .
Despite a ceasefire in 2003 , violence has continued in the east of the country .
The United Nations has about 17,000 troops in Congo to assist the government and maintain peace .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez travels to Cuba late Thursday to accept an award for the preservation of native culture .
Mr. Chavez is accepting an award from UNESCO , the United Nations educational and cultural organization .
The Jose Marti International Award , named for the Cuban writer and patriot , is awarded annually to a person or group for their work preserving and promoting Latin American and Caribbean culture .
While in Cuba , the Venezuelan leader will attend Cuba 's annual International Book Fair , which focuses this year on Venezuela .
President Chavez and Cuban President Fidel Castro are close allies , and often denounce the United States and its policies in the hemisphere .
Cuban state media said the visit will strengthen ties between the two governments .
Felipe Calderon is a career politician who served as energy secretary under Mexican President Vicente Fox .
Like his father Luis , who helped found the National Action Party , Calderon has been an influential member of the party , serving as its president .
During this year 's presidential election campaign , Calderon won the support of Mexico 's business leaders .
A Harvard-educated lawyer , he has pledged to continue Mr. Fox 's conservative economic policies .
He also has pledged to battle crime and attract new investments that would create jobs and help resolve social issues .
During the campaign , he criticized political rival Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , accusing him of having ties to leftist Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
Although election officials banned Calderon 's advertisements describing Lopez Obrador as a danger to Mexico , the allegations still dogged his rival .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court is still hearing a legal challenge to last month 's presidential election even after clearing the way for Viktor Yushchenko 's inauguration .
The court Tuesday ruled that the December 26 election results can be printed in two government newspapers on Thursday , making it official .
The decision allows Mr. Yushchenko to be sworn in as president as soon as parliament sets a date .
Yushchenko aides say they expect the lawmakers to set the inauguration for Saturday .
But the court will continue hearing former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych 's claim that the election was fraudulent .
It has already dismissed a number of other Yanukovych challenges .
Separately , an aide to Mr. Yushchenko says the president-elect will travel to the European parliament next week to promote Ukraine 's bid to join the European Union .
Coal mining , tourism , and international research are the major revenue sources on Svalbard .
Coal mining is the dominant economic activity and a treaty of 9 February 1920 gave the 41 signatories equal rights to exploit mineral deposits , subject to Norwegian regulation .
Although US , UK , Dutch , and Swedish coal companies have mined in the past , the only companies still engaging in this are Norwegian and Russian .
The settlements on Svalbard are essentially company towns .
The Norwegian state-owned coal company employs nearly 60 % of the Norwegian population on the island , runs many of the local services , and provides most of the local infrastructure .
There is also some hunting of seal , reindeer , and fox .
The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by the Portuguese in the 15th century ; Cape Verde subsequently became a trading center for African slaves and later an important coaling and resupply stop for whaling and transatlantic shipping .
Following independence in 1975 , and a tentative interest in unification with Guinea-Bissau , a one-party system was established and maintained until multi-party elections were held in 1990 .
Cape Verde continues to exhibit one of Africa 's most stable democratic governments .
Repeated droughts during the second half of the 20th century caused significant hardship and prompted heavy emigration .
As a result , Cape Verde 's expatriate population is greater than its domestic one .
Most Cape Verdeans have both African and Portuguese antecedents .
Iran 's constitutional overseers have disqualified nearly all pro-reform candidates in next month 's presidential election .
Members of the hardline Guardian Council rejected more than 1,000 candidates who had registered to run in the June 17 election .
The only pro-reform candidate to receive the council 's approval is Mehdi Karroubi , a former speaker of parliament .
Among those rejected was Mustafa Moin , the only candidate of Iran 's largest reformist party , the Islamic Iran Participation Front .
Iran 's Guardian Council is a group of 12 individuals that supervises elections and makes sure the laws passed by parliament conform to Islamic doctrine .
Last year , hard-liners took control of Iran 's parliament after the Guardian Council disqualified more than 2,400 reformists from running for office .
The head of ASEAN says a draft version of the group 's first charter of standards - set to be released next week - will " pressure " military-ruled Burma to improve its human rights record .
Speaking with reporters in Singapore on Monday , Secretary-General Ong Keng Yong said the charter will stress " responsibility and obligation " of membership in the Association for South East Asian Nations .
Burma has long been a problem for the 10-nation group because of its poor human rights record and its detention of activists , including Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi .
A draft of the new charter will be presented to ASEAN members next week when they meet in the Philippines .
Thousands of Bangladeshi opposition activists have gathered in cities and urban centers to form a 900-kilometer human chain to demonstrate no-confidence in the government .
The so-called " human wall " is planned to stretch hand-in-hand Saturday from Teknaf in the southeast to Tentulia in the northwest .
The demonstration by the Awami League and its allies is calling for the resignation of the government and early elections .
The government , which holds a strong parliamentary majority , has consistently rejected the opposition 's demands .
The Bangladeshi government has called out the country 's Rapid Action Battalion units , police and paramilitary forces to keep a watch on the demonstrators .
Both peacekeepers and insurgents say fighting in Somalia is set to increase during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
A spokesman for the African Union peacekeeping force in Mogadishu , Major Ba-Hoku Barigye , says troops are preparing for a surge in attacks from militants over the next thirty days .
The prediction comes as authorities in Kenya say they have arrested dozens of non-Somalis over the last two months suspected of attempting to cross the border to join insurgent fighters .
Hizbul Islam , one of the groups fighting AU forces and soldiers from the Somali transitional government , has vowed to step up its assaults during the holy month .
A militia group fighting the insurgents , Ahlu-Summa Wal-Jama , says it will increase its own attacks .
Ramadan begins Wednesday for Somalia 's mostly Sunni Muslims .
Observers refrain from eating , drinking and sexual relations between daybreak and sunset .
The U.S. military says coalition forces have killed six suspected terrorists and detained 22 others during operations to disrupt terrorist networks in central and northern Iraq .
A statement says coalition troops southwest of Mosul killed four suspects Friday in an operation targeting a man believed responsible for al-Qaida in Iraq security functions .
It says troops discovered grenades and other weapons in a vehicle used by the suspects .
In another operation , the military says coalition forces killed two suspected terrorists and wounded another in Mosul Thursday .
Separately , the military says one U.S. soldier was killed and another four wounded when their convoy in southern Baghdad was struck Thursday by an armor-piercing bomb .
Elsewhere , Iraqi police say a roadside bomb killed two policemen and wounded three others north of the city of Diwaniya .
The economy is based on service activities connected with the country 's strategic location and status as a free trade zone in the Horn of Africa .
Two-thirds of Djibouti 's inhabitants live in the capital city ; the remainder are mostly nomadic herders .
Scanty rainfall limits crop production to fruits and vegetables , and most food must be imported .
Djibouti provides services as both a transit port for the region and an international transshipment and refueling center .
Imports and exports from landlocked neighbor Ethiopia represent 70 % of port activity at Djibouti 's container terminal .
Djibouti has few natural resources and little industry .
The nation is , therefore , heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help support its balance of payments and to finance development projects .
An unemployment rate of nearly 60 % in urban areas continues to be a major problem .
While inflation is not a concern , due to the fixed tie of the Djiboutian franc to the US dollar , the artificially high value of the Djiboutian franc adversely affects Djibouti 's balance of payments .
Per capita consumption dropped an estimated 35 % between 1999 and 2006 because of recession , civil war , and a high population growth rate ( including immigrants and refugees ) .
Djibouti has experienced relatively minimal impact from the global economic downturn , but its reliance on diesel-generated electricity and imported food leave average consumers vulnerable to global price shocks .
The Israeli army says Palestinian militants fired two homemade rockets into an army base near the Gaza border Wednesday , wounding 12 people , many of them soldiers .
The army said two other rockets landed earlier near the southern Israeli town of Sderot , but did not cause any casualties .
Palestinian militants in northern Gaza have stepped up rocket fire in recent weeks , prompting the Israeli army to launch new operations in the area to halt such attacks .
Meanwhile , the United States is preparing to send an official observer mission to Sunday 's Palestinian election .
The State Department says the delegation will be led by Senators John Sununu and Joseph Biden and will include prominent Palestinian-Americans .
The State Department says successful elections will require close cooperation between Israel and the Palestinians .
Presidential candidate Barack Obama has addressed issues important to women , as he tries to appeal to a critical voting bloc .
The Democratic senator told a crowd in Florida on Saturday that it is an outrage that women still make 77 cents for every dollar that men make in the United States .
He said his Republican opponent , John McCain , has opposed legislation to help women get equal pay .
He also outlined his support for abortion rights , and promised a plan to provide health insurance for all Americans .
Both Obama and McCain are trying to appeal to women voters , particularly those who supported Senator Hillary Clinton during her run for the Democratic Party presidential nomination .
Lawyers for two jailed Hamas Cabinet ministers and a Palestinian legislator Monday said an Israeli military court has ordered the three men held without trial for six months .
An Israeli military spokesman says the three men , Minister of State Wasfi Kabha , Education Minister Naser al-Deen al-Shaer and legislator Abdel-Rahman Zeidan , were ordered held until December fourth because their release would pose a " clear and present danger " to Israel .
The military court did not release the specific charges against the three men , who were detained last month along with more than 30 others .
Israel 's use of lengthy administrative detention without specific charges being filed has prompted criticism from Palestinian officials , the U.S. State Department and some human rights groups .
The former Hurricane Otis has weakened to a tropical storm as it drifts toward the west coast of Mexico .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the center of Otis was 195 kilometers southwest of the Baja California peninsula early Sunday .
The storm is moving north slowly , with sustained winds of 115 kilometers per hour .
Heavy rains fell in parts of Baja California Saturday , leading authorities to issue evacuation orders for the Cabo San Lucas resort and nearby low-lying areas .
Meanwhile , Tropical Storm Stan has made landfall over eastern Mexico 's Yucatan peninsula .
Maximum sustained winds are 65 kilometers per hour .
Weather forecasters say Stan will likely weaken to a tropical depression as it passes over Yucatan , but could regain strength when it moves over the Gulf Of Mexico Monday .
China 's minister for Taiwan affairs arrives in Washington Tuesday for talks with U.S. officials .
A U.S. State Department spokesman says Chen Yunlin will meet with Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage and other officials for talks on a variety of issues between China and Taiwan , including China 's proposed anti-secessionist law .
China says the sole purpose of the legislation , to be considered by the country 's parliament in March , is to contain Taiwan 's separatist forces and promote peace and stability in the region .
Taiwan says the measure is aimed at suppressing the island .
China considers Taiwan part of its territory and has threatened to take the island by force if it makes moves toward independence .
The sister of a Buddhist monk imprisoned by Burma 's military rulers for pro-democracy activities says her brother is on a hunger strike .
Khin Thu Htay tells VOA Burmese service that monk Ashin Gambira began the hunger strike 10 days ago after prison authorities blocked him from seeing her and other family members .
She says the family tried to visit him at a prison in the central region of Mandalay .
The sister says Burmese authorities told her that several days later , Gambira was transferred to another prison Hkamti in a remote part of the northwestern Sagaing region .
Courts in military-run Burma sentenced the monk last year to 68 years in prison for leading pro-democracy protests in 2007 .
Burmese citizens began weeks of mass protests against the military in June 2007 before authorities crushed the demonstrations .
The United Nations says at least 31 people were killed and thousands more were detained in the crackdown .
Brazil has agreed not to break a pharmaceutical patent on a crucial AIDS drug after a U.S. drug manufacturer agreed to significantly reduce the price of the drug .
The agreements were announced late Friday after 10 days of talks between Brazil 's government and Abbott Laboratories .
The drug manufacturer will cut prices , saving Brazil 's Ministry of Health over $ 259 million over the next six years .
Abbott also agreed to a technology transfer allowing Brazil 's state-run pharmaceutical labs to begin producing the drug Kaletra in 2009 .
Brazil had accused the U.S. drug maker with exorbitant pricing , and said the government planned to locally produce a cheaper generic copy of the patented drug .
Abbott denied the overpricing charges , and said Brazil 's plans were illegal .
Ukrainian opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko says she believes Viktor Yushchenko will nominate her as prime minister .
Ms. Tymoshenko , a top ally of the president-elect , said in Kiev Saturday that a written agreement with Mr. Yushchenko last year promised her the post .
She was a central figure in last year 's massive protests in Kiev against a flawed November presidential run-off vote .
Election officials had declared then-Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the winner of that balloting , but the Supreme Court threw out the results because of fraud and it ordered a December re-run .
Several other people have been named as possible candidates for prime minister , including parliamentarian Petro Poroshenko .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court begins hearings Monday on an election challenge by Mr. Yanukovych , who is alleging fraud in the December 26 re-run vote .
A LION who had caught a Mouse was about to kill him , when the Mouse said :
" If you will spare my life , I will do as much for you some day . "
The Lion , good-naturedly let him go .
It happened shortly afterwards that the Lion was caught by some hunters and bound with cords .
The Mouse , passing that way , and seeing that his benefactor was helpless , gnawed off his tail .
The presidents of South Africa and Nigeria have arrived in Ivory Coast in another effort to resolve a standoff over the selection of a new prime minister .
Thabo Mbeki and Olusegun Obasanjo plan to hold talks with President Laurent Gbagbo , opposition leaders and rebels who control the northern half of Ivory Coast .
The parties have been unable to agree on a new prime minister who would run a caretaker government until elections scheduled for October 2006 .
Mr. Gbagbo canceled elections scheduled for October of this year and vowed to remain in office another 12 months , sparking anger among rebels and opposition leaders .
The Nigerian and South African leaders traveled Sunday from Mali , where they attended the France-Africa summit .
The president of Niger , Mamadou Tandja , is scheduled to join them for the talks in Abidjan .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has told a forum of Arab leaders in Qatar to enact economic and political reforms or face increased unrest and extremism .
Clinton spoke Thursday in the capital , Doha , as she wrapped up a four-nation tour of the Persian Gulf .
The top U.S. diplomat said if leaders do not offer young people " meaningful ways to contribute , " then others are ready to fill the void .
Clinton said extremists and terrorist groups " who would prey on desperation and poverty " are already appealing for influence .
She also called for an end to corruption and for increased economic opportunities for women and minorities .
Clinton said the " new and dynamic Middle East " needs a firmer foundation in order to grow .
Her tour also included stops in Oman , Yemen and the United Arab Emirates .
The prime ministers of Ireland and Britain have presented Catholic leaders meeting in Dublin and Protestant leaders in London a blueprint aimed at breaking the deadlock on Northern Ireland power-sharing .
The plan offered Wednesday by British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern includes a commitment by the Irish Republican Army to permit Catholic and Protestant clerics to witness the organization 's disarmament .
The IRA proposal falls short of the detailed arms inventory sought by hard-line Protestants but opposed by the Catholic Sinn Fein party .
The two prime ministers have given the Northern Ireland adversaries one week to respond in a first step toward a return to the power-sharing arrangement created under the 1998 Good Friday peace accord .
That agreement was abandoned two years ago after Protestant lawmakers accused their Sinn Fein counterparts of spying .
A legal group representing a detainee who committed suicide at Guantanamo Naval Base earlier this month is expressing concern that the Bush administration may intentionally dispose of evidence related to the case .
The New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights this week sought court protection of evidence related to the death of its client , Ali Abdullah Ahmed al-Salami .
It said the Bush administration has failed to provide a death certificate or autopsy report since three Guantanamo inmates were found dead in their cells June 10 .
The motion also asks for an independent investigation into the suicides .
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman told VOA that preservation of evidence is standard military practice and , in his words , " a vital part " of such an investigation .
But he said such evidence is not likely to be made public before the inquiry is complete .
Celebrations of the New Year 2005 were muted around the world as people remembered the tens of thousands of people killed or still suffering as a result of the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster .
Thailand and Turkey canceled traditional fireworks displays and parties .
Malaysians and Indonesians took part in prayer services .
Most New Year 's Eve celebration 's that were held included a moment of silence for the victims as well as fund raising efforts for disaster relief .
Some reports also suggest as many as 10,000 visitors from outside Asia are still missing in the disaster zone .
Many Europeans were on Christmas holiday vacations at south Asian beach resorts and nearly 3,600 Swedes , 1,000 Germans and 700 Italians are still missing .
U.S. officials believe about 3,000 Americans were in south Asia but it is not clear how many of them were in dangerous areas .
President Bush is to host Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas October 20 at the White House .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said in a statement Friday that Mr. Bush looks forward to discussing Palestinian efforts to improve governance , revive the economy , institute security reform , and fight terror .
Mr. McClellan said the leaders will discuss a wide range of other bilateral and regional issues .
The United States is making public and diplomatic appeals to Israel and the Palestinians to end the violence that has sent regional tensions soaring only weeks after Israel 's Gaza withdrawal .
Hurricane Paula has strengthened as it threatens the Gulf Coast of Mexico and parts of Central America , forcing officials to call for the evacuation of many coastal areas .
At last report ( 1745 UTC ) , forecasters at the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Paula 's maximum sustained winds had increased from 120 kilometers to 160 kilometers an hour .
Further strengthening is expected .
The storm is about 220 kilometers southeast of the Mexican resort island of Cozumel , where hurricane warnings are in effect .
It is expected to approach the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula late Tuesday and Wednesday .
Hurricane Paula could dump eight to 15 centimeters of rain over western and central Cuba , the Yucatan Peninsula and northern Belize , with some isolated areas receiving more than 25 centimeters .
Forecasters say the heavy rains could trigger flash flooding and mudslides in the region , especially in mountainous parts of Nicaragua and Honduras .
Business owners in parts of the devastated city of New Orleans are being allowed back into the area to start clean-up and begin readying for re-opening .
New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has called on business owners to return to the French Quarter and some other parts of the city -- but other officials are warning there may be limited or no electricity or clean running water .
Some residents will also be allowed to return to their homes Monday .
Less than half of New Orleans remains flooded , but dangers from downed power lines , natural gas leaks , toxic debris and other hazards remain .
Hurricane Katrina ravaged the U.S. Gulf Coast on August 29 .
The death toll in five states is now more than 800 .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has rejected charges he made anti-Semitic remarks last month .
Speaking to the Venezuelan parliament Friday , President Chavez said a call for an apology by the U.S.-based Simon Wiesenthal Center is part of what he called an " imperialist campaign . "
The Wiesenthal Center had asked Mr. Chavez to apologize for comments he made in a Christmas Eve speech regarding , " descendants of those who crucified Christ " and those who " took the world 's riches for themselves . "
A group of Venezuelan Jewish leaders on Friday defended the president and criticized the Wiesenthal Center for speaking out without consulting the Venezuelan Jewish community .
The group says Mr. Chavez did not specifically target Jews in his speech .
The group also said the world 's Jews must learn to work together .
Syria 's ruling Baath party has endorsed political and security reforms that include relaxing the country 's long-standing state of emergency laws .
Other recommendations include allowing greater media freedoms , more political parties and provisions for addressing grievances of the country 's Kurdish community , which has long complained of discrimination .
The party recommendations were broadcast Thursday on Syrian state news media .
They are expected to be voted on by the full party congress later today , but are still a long way from being implemented by parliament .
Analysts say it could take more than a year for the recommendations to take effect , and that they could be changed before then .
The Baath Party has held power since 1963 , and comes under frequent criticism for alleged human rights violations and repressive emergency laws .
A United Nations spokesman has condemned the use of violence in the run-up to the Democratic Republic of Congo 's elections .
Spokesman Jean-Tobie Okala in Kinshasa says at least four people died Monday , including one National Army soldier , when heavily armed gunmen opened fire on a political rally in Congo 's North Kivu province .
At least six people were seriously injured in the attack .
The identity of the gunmen is unknown .
Speaking to VOA , Okala said the U.N. condemns the use of violence to , " push people around ahead of the election . "
Many opposition groups have accused the government of incumbent president Joseph Kabila of trying to gain an unfair advantage in the July 30 polls .
Some international election monitors warn the government is threatening the fairness of the electoral process through unjustified arrests and intimidation .
Egyptian security officials say the number of people killed by a rockslide in Cairo earlier this month is at least 95 , as the search continues for more bodies in the rubble .
The previous death toll was at least 80 , after giant rocks fell from the cliff above the impoverished Manshiyet Nasr neighborhood September sixth .
Angry residents have clashed with rescue workers over what they consider an inadequate response to the disaster .
Rescuers have had to work mostly by hand to remove debris because streets in the neighborhood are too narrow for large machinery .
Officials say rockslides are frequent in the area .
Families living there have appealed to authorities for safer housing .
China 's official news agency says 96 miners are missing following an explosion at a coal mine in the country 's northern province of Hebei .
In the country 's latest mine accident , Xinhua said some 123 people were underground when the blast occurred , but 27 later escaped .
Overall , at least 171 people have died in Chinese mine accidents in the last two weeks .
At a coal mine in Henan province , officials said divers would search flooded mine shafts for 42 workers missing since Friday when a nearby river overflowed .
Attempts to pump water out of the mine have been unsuccessful .
China 's mines are the deadliest in the world , with thousands of miners killed each year .
The recent series of deadly accidents .
Major oil companies have been reporting sharp increases in profits this week , sparking calls from some U.S. politicians for an investigation , a possible tax hike on profits , and new refinery construction to ease supply problems that boosted energy prices to record levels .
The latest third quarter profit report came from Chevron on Friday , showing a $ 3.6 billion net income , and a 12-percent hike in profit .
Earlier , oil giant ExxonMobil showed a 75 percent profit hike and a nearly $ 10 billion net .
U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist , a Republican , has asked colleagues to question top oil company executives at congressional hearings .
Democratic Senator Hillary Clinton criticized Republicans for opposing a plan to help the poor pay heating bills , and urged oil companies to invest in new energy technologies .
India says it would like the dispute over Iran 's nuclear program to be resolved through negotiations at the International Atomic Energy Agency , not the United Nations Security Council .
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told reporters in New Delhi Wednesday that the matter should be resolved through diplomacy and dialogue .
The five permanent members of the Security Council have agreed to bring Iran before the powerful body .
But some other key nations have indicated they want to avoid going to the Council .
Mr. Singh declined to specify India 's stand on a possible Security Council referral .
He said he will review the issue in the " national interest . "
In September , New Delhi voted with the United States on an earlier IAEA resolution that could have led to Iran 's referral to the Council .
But the Indian government was severely criticized for that by its left-wing political allies at home .
U.S. and Afghan forces report killing eight insurgents during fighting in southeastern Afghanistan and say they thwarted an attempted suicide bombing at a U.S. base .
Authorities in Zabul province say coalition forces raided a Taleban hideout Saturday , sparking a gunbattle during which eight militants were killed and three captured .
In Khost province Saturday , coalition forces detained a man outside a U.S. base after a grenade he was carrying failed to detonate .
A military statement says the assailant had several explosives hidden on his body when he approached Camp Salerno .
In central Uruzgan province Saturday , Afghan and U.S. troops killed one insurgent and captured six others .
The Taleban has stepped up attacks ahead of parliamentary elections next month .
A Chilean appeals court has ruled former dictator Augusto Pinochet can not avoid prosecution for alleged human rights violations on health grounds .
In a unanimous ruling , the judges concluded that recent medical exams do not disqualify Pinochet , who is 90 years old , from standing trial .
The ruling clears the way for Pinochet to be brought to trial in connection with the murder of leftwing dissidents during his 17-year military rule from 1973 to 1990 .
The specific case relates to a campaign , known as " Operation Colombo , " in which 119 dissidents disappeared in 1975 and were believed killed .
It is one of several human rights cases brought against the retired general .
He and members of his family also have been charged with tax evasion and fraud stemming from his years in power .
Saturday , March 8th is International Women 's Day , a day to celebrate the economic , political and social achievements of women .
One woman who has been an inspiration for women in Afghanistan is Massouda Jalal , who ran for the nation 's highest office in its first presidential election in October 2004 .
Although Jalal attracted enthusiastic and widespread support , Afghanistan 's current President Hamid Karzai ultimately defeated her .
Now a new documentary film called " Frontrunner " is re-examining Massouda Jalal 's presidential run .
As VOA 's George Dwyer reports the film is offering viewers some important insights , about personal courage and political transformation .
Jim Bertel narrates .
The Indian cricket board has delayed the departure of its team for a test and limited-over series in Bangladesh , after a little-known militant group threatened to kill the Indian players .
In a letter mailed Thursday , a group calling itself Harkat-Ul-Zihad threatened to kill the Indians to avenge the deaths of Muslims killed during communal riots in the Indian state of Gujarat in 2002 .
Indian cricket board president Ranbir Singh Mahendra said Sunday that the team , which had been scheduled to leave Tuesday , would not leave before Wednesday after receiving an advisory from the government .
He said the government is taking the threat seriously and the tour 's fate will be decided by the security delegation , which arrives in Dhaka on Monday .
The Indian cricketers had been slated to depart from the eastern city of Calcutta for Bangladesh on Tuesday to play two tests and three one-dayers .
Iraqi police say a suicide attack in the northern city of Baiji has killed at least seven people and wounded at least 13 .
Police say the bomber rammed a vehicle into a police building in a residential area Saturday .
Baiji , about 250 kilometers north of Baghdad , has the country 's largest oil refinery and is a key export point for crude oil .
Also , a possible rocket or bomb attack has killed a local leader of the movement of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
Iraqi authorities say Uday Hamid and his wife and two children were killed in an explosion at their home south of Baghdad , in Numaniya .
In other news , the U.S. military says coalition forces killed 12 terrorists and detained 13 suspects in operations today targeting al-Qaida in Iraq networks in central and northern Iraq .
Philippine Senator Benigno Aquino III has been formally declared the winner of the country 's presidential election .
A joint session of the upper and lower chambers of Congress formally proclaimed Mr. Aquino the Philippine 's 15th president Wednesday .
The president-elect won the May 10 automated elections in a landslide , garnering more than 15 million votes , while his closest challenger , ex-President Joseph Estrada , got only 9.4 million votes .
Mr. Aquino will take office on June 30 , succeeding President Gloria Arroyo , whose nine-year tenure has been marred by allegations of corruption and election fraud .
He campaigned on a platform of eliminating corruption and poverty .
Mr. Aquino is the son of the late President Corazon Aquino and Senator Benigno Aquino , Jr. , who was assassinated in 1983 at the Manila airport after returning from exile in the United States to challenge the dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos .
A Kenyan minister personally intervened to help police rescue five singers who say they were being held against their will in a Nairobi nightclub .
Kenyan police say Immigration Minister Jebii Kilimo received a text message about the women on her mobile phone , and alerted police , who raided the nightclub late Tuesday and rescued the singers .
The five Indian women claimed their travel documents had been confiscated when they arrived in Kenya .
They say they were forced to sing in the club , and were locked up during the day .
Authorities say Ms. Kilimo took the women to an unknown destination for safe custody .
Kenyan police are investigating the incident .
India 's Tata Motors has begun removing equipment from its " cheapest car " factory in eastern India , after no resolution in a land dispute .
A Tata spokesman would not comment Wednesday , but there are reports that the equipment is being moved from the Singur plant in West Bengal state to Tata 's existing facility in the northern state of Uttarakhand .
The Tata plant was set to manufacture what is being called the world 's cheapest car - the " Nano . "
Work has been shut down for several weeks after deadly protests by the West Bengal 's opposition party , which says that local villagers were unfairly compensated for their land , that was used to build the factory .
Efforts to resolve the standoff have failed , with protesters recently rejecting a government offer to return 30 hectares of land .
Tata officials have said they are considering moving the plant out of West Bengal .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard is brushing off criticism over a deal his government has reached with China that opens the door to a potential free trade agreement between the two nations .
Canberra granted Beijing market economy status on Monday as part of the agreement to begin free trade talks .
But a spokesman for Australia 's opposition Labor Party says Mr. Howard gave away Australia 's strongest bargaining chip in the talks .
Mr. Howard says the Labor Party is simply complaining because it has no ideas of its own to promote .
The prime minister says a new deal will not be reached until sometime next year , adding that there was goodwill on both sides , but " not that good . "
A PIGEON , oppressed by excessive thirst , saw a goblet of water painted on a signboard .
Not supposing it to be only a picture , she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed against the signboard , jarring herself terribly .
Having broken her wings by the blow , she fell to the ground , and was caught by one of the bystanders .
Zeal should not outrun discretion .
Up to 140 people are feared dead in the Democratic Republic of Congo , after a crowded river boat overturned .
Officials said Thursday that the accident occurred on the Congo River in the western province of Bandundu .
Information Minister Lambert Mende said at least 80 people are confirmed dead , while local officials put the death toll higher .
About 200 people were believed to be on the boat , which was also carrying merchandise from Bandundu to the capital , Kinshasa .
Officials say the boat was overloaded and unable to navigate through rough waters .
Mende said rescuers are looking for more survivors .
Fatal boat accidents are common in the DRC , where a lack of paved roads and the high cost of air travel forces many people to travel by boat , even if they do not know how to swim .
The river vessels are often overcrowded and poorly maintained .
Christmas was over .
Santa and his reindeer finally had a chance to rest .
And they deserved it .
They had done a good job .
Rudolph had a chance to do something he had wanted to do for a long time .
He made an appointment with a plastic surgeon because he was so sensitive about his looks .
However it was n't his glowing proboscis that he wanted changed .
He was proud of his nose and the help he had given Santa because of it .
No , he was sensitive about his long ears which were much more prominent than the ears of the average reindeer , or bear for that matter .
So one week after Christmas , he let the good doctor do the pinna reconstructive surgery procedure , and since that time , January 1st has been celebrated as ... New Ears Day .
Pope Benedict XVI has extended greetings to Orthodox Christians as they celebrate Christmas Eve on the Julian calendar .
The pontiff made his comment Friday to thousands of pilgrims gathered in Saint Peter 's Square as Roman Catholics celebrated the feast of the Epiphany saying the light of Christianity continues to spread .
In Moscow , the head of the Russian Orthodox Church , Patriarch Alexy , urged believers to mark Christmas with good deeds .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says he urged the faithful to pool their efforts to allow the joy of Christmas to enter every home .
Russia 's Orthodox Church did not accept the " new " calendar introduced by Pope Gregory XII in 1582 , and celebrates Christmas about two weeks later than most Christians .
Russian President Vladimir Putin attended a Christmas Eve service at a cathedral in the Siberian city of Yakutsk .
United Airlines , the second largest carrier in the United States , is cutting additional jobs , grounding airplanes that use the most fuel , and slashing domestic flights to offset record fuel prices .
United Airlines announced Wednesday it will cut an extra 900 to 1,100 jobs by the end of the year .
The layoffs are in addition to 500 job cuts the carrier announced previously .
United is also grounding 100 of its least fuel-efficient aircraft , 94 Boeing 737s and six 747 airplanes .
The carrier will also slash domestic flights 17 percent by the end of the year .
Last month , American Airlines , the largest carrier in the United States , announced similar measures to offset the high cost of fuel .
American Airlines said it would cut an undetermined number of jobs and slash domestic flights by up to 12 percent .
Pakistan 's finance chief says the International Monetary Fund has agreed to provide a $ 7.6 billion loan to help the country stabilize its economy .
Top economic advisor Shaukat Tareen says the loan will prevent Pakistan from defaulting on its foreign debt .
Tareen told reporters in Karachi Saturday that Pakistan will formally apply for the loan next week , but that the IMF has agreed to the deal .
Tareen says Pakistan expects its first IMF loan disbursements this year .
12-year-old Jeff Maier reached out and caught a fly ball at the Yankees-Orioles game , causing Baltimore to lose the first game of the playoffs .
This means that Maier has already caught more fly balls than the entire Mets outfield ...
In U.S. politics , there are mounting calls for Senator Hillary Clinton to end her campaign for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination .
Mathematically , observers say Clinton can not catch up with rival Senator Barack Obama in pledged delegates .
And prominent Democratic Party officials fear that an acrimonious fight between Clinton and Obama could lead to depressed turnout among Democratic voters in the general election .
But Clinton finds a strong defense from women 's rights activists who do not want her to quit the race .
VOA 's Leta Hong Fincher has more .
Zimbabwe has condemned opposition activists for stamping protest messages on the country 's bank notes .
Deputy Finance Minister David Chapfika warned Wednesday the government would punish those behind the vandalism .
No group has claimed responsibility for printing the words " enough " and " get up , stand up " on some bank notes found in circulation in Zimbabwe .
Last year , officials blamed an underground rights group known as " Enough " ( Zvakwana ) for a similar campaign in which messages were printed on condom packages .
Opposition groups say the government of President Robert Mugabe has launched a new crackdown ahead of key parliamentary elections due later this year .
Leaders of rival Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas have opened talks in Saudi Arabia in efforts to end a deadly power struggle and form a unity government .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah , Hamas ' exiled political chief Khaled Mashaal and Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh are meeting in the Muslim holy city of Mecca .
Tuesday , the rival Palestinian leaders met separately with Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah .
The Saudi monarch says he hopes the Palestinians will reach an agreement to " stop the bloodshed . "
Fighting between Hamas and Fatah erupted in December .
More than 90 Palestinians have been killed in street battles since then .
Fatah and Hamas have been locked in a power struggle since parliamentary elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip brought Hamas to power last year .
A British security firm says four of its employees have been killed and 15 others wounded in an attack in Baghdad 's heavily fortified " Green Zone , " which houses the Iraqi government and the U.S.-led coalition .
A spokesman for the " Global Risk Strategies " firm declined to say Friday what kind of attack occurred , but said the incident took place on Thursday .
The development came as Iraqi authorities said an Iraqi policeman was killed and three others wounded when insurgents attacked a police station late Thursday in Rashad , southwest of the northern city of Kirkuk .
Also Friday , the U.S. military said Marines have cleared more than half the houses of weapons in the restive city of Fallujah , after mounting an offensive to crush the city 's rebels .
On Thursday , a large cache of weapons and an apparent chemical weapons laboratory was discovered in Fallujah .
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the seashore .
Standing on a projecting rock , he played several tunes in the hope that the fish , attracted by his melody , would of their own accord dance into his net , which he had placed below .
At last , having long waited in vain , he laid aside his flute , and casting his net into the sea , made an excellent haul of fish .
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said : " O you most perverse creatures , when I piped you would not dance , but now that I have ceased you do so merrily . "
The leader of Venezuela 's ruling party is claiming victory in Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Willian Lara says President Hugo Chavez 's Fifth Republic Movement won 114 seats in the 167-seat National Assembly .
Mr. Lara also says the rest of the Assembly 's contested seats will go to parties supportive of Mr. Chavez .
Official results have yet to be announced .
Venezuela 's election chief estimates voter turnout at just 25 percent .
Most opposition parties boycotted the election , accusing electoral officials of manipulating electronic voting machines and favoring the president .
Mr. Chavez is accusing the United States of orchestrating the boycott .
Washington denies the charges .
Meanwhile , officials say an explosion that damaged an oil pipeline in western Venezuelan state of Zulia late Saturday was an attempt to disrupt the elections .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for expansion of ties between his country and Iraq following a meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Iran 's state news agency ( IRNA ) reports that President Ahmadinejad said stronger relations between the two nations will help Iraq 's development and stability .
The two leaders met late Sunday as part of Mr. Maliki 's state visit to Iran , his third since he became prime minister .
President Ahmadinejad made a landmark visit to Iraq in March .
Earlier today , the Iraqi prime minister met with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and he assured Tehran that a proposed U.S.-Iraq security agreement will not harm Iran .
The comment comes as U.S. and Iraqi officials discuss a security deal that would allow American forces to remain in Iraq beyond December 31st , when their U.N. mandate expires .
Iran opposes such an agreement .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has canceled a scheduled trip to China for the opening of the Olympic games .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Sadiq confirmed the cancellation Wednesday , but did not give an explanation .
President Musharraf had planned to attend the opening ceremony in Beijing and meet with Chinese leaders .
The change in plans comes as leaders of Pakistan 's ruling coalition met to discuss a number of issues , including the possible impeachment of Mr. Musharraf .
Pakistani People 's Party leader Asif Ali Zardari and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif spoke Tuesday , and also discussed restoring the country 's judiciary .
They are scheduled to meet again today .
Mr. Musharraf declared a state of emergency last November and purged the Supreme Court , in order to halt any legal challenges to his presidency .
China has raised its estimate for economic growth in 2005 to 9.8 percent .
That is an increase of .4 percent from the government 's previous figure .
The new number was released Sunday by Ou Xinqian , vice minister of China 's National Development and Reform Commission .
The official Xinhua News Agency says the Commission adjusted its growth estimate because recent data shows China 's economy in 2004 was much bigger than previously thought .
Last month , the government raised its national output figure for 2004 by 16.8 percent over the original estimate .
Officials said service industries accounted for most of the revision .
The new growth estimate from Mr. Ou is the latest in a series of economic data released by Chinese officials .
China 's National Bureau of Statistics is expected to announce the final figures for 2005 in the coming weeks .
A spokesman for the African Union says all 38 peacekeepers who were kidnapped in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have been released .
The spokesman said the hostages were released on Monday following a shootout between rival groups .
The peacekeepers were abducted Sunday in the town of Tine near Sudan 's border with Chad .
A dissident faction of Darfur 's rebel Justice and Equality Movement has been blamed for the kidnappings .
The kidnappings took place a day after two AU peacekeepers and two civilian contractors were killed in an ambush blamed on the main Darfur rebel group , the Sudan Liberation Army .
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan says attacks by rebels groups and criminal activity in Darfur have created a very dangerous situation for humanitarian workers .
He warned the government and rebels continued violence will impede humanitarian aid .
Croatian General Ante Gotovina pleaded not guilty Tuesday to four new charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity linked to the murders of Croatian Serbs in 1995 .
Prosecutors at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal in the Hague have charged Gotovina and two other Croatian officers , Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac , with the crimes .
Gotovina was arrested a year ago on Spain 's Canary Islands and remains in custody .
He had pleaded not guilty to earlier charges .
Cermak and Markac have been released to await their trial .
They appeared at Tuesday 's hearing via a video link , and also pleaded not guilty to new charges .
The Hague war crimes tribunal indicted General Gotovina in 2001 for his role in the deaths of civilians during a 1995 offensive through a Serb-held area of the country .
Ecuador 's president , Rafael Correa , is set to travel to Saudi Arabia this week for the upcoming OPEC summit , 15 years after the country left the international oil cartel .
OPEC countries ' heads of states will meet in the Saudi capital , Riyadh , on Saturday November 17 for the two-day summit .
Ecuador left OPEC in 1992 , but officials announced last month the country would officially rejoin the cartel at its next summit .
Ecuador produces more than 500,000 barrels of crude oil a day , making it the fifth largest producer in South America .
Venezuela is the only other Latin American country in OPEC .
U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman says the United States will offer incentives to spur companies to construct six nuclear power plants .
Bodman Friday announced a plan that will provide risk insurance coverage against bureaucratic and legal issues that make construction of the plants more expensive .
The plan would provide up to $ 500 million in coverage for the first two plants built , and up to $ 250 million more for the next four plants .
The United States has 103 nuclear power plants in 31 states .
But a new plant has not been built since 1973 , and a partial meltdown at Pennsylvania 's Three Mile Island plant in 1979 ended plans to construct new ones .
The leader of Cyprus ' Orthodox Church has warned clerics critical of an upcoming visit by Pope Benedict that they must show the pontiff respect .
Archbishop Chrysostomos said Tuesday that freedom of expression is allowed in the Orthodox Church , but that clerics must not offend a guest like the Pope .
Pope Benedict XVI is scheduled to visit Cyprus in early June at the invitation of Cypriot President Dimitris Christofias .
Several clerics have threatened to boycott the Pope 's visit .
One bishop told a Cypriot newspaper that the pope is a heretic and that it would be better if he did not visit .
Most Greek Cypriots are followers of the Greek Orthodox Church , which split with the Roman Catholic Church in the 11th century , but the island has a small Catholic community .
The so-called " peace bridge " linking Indian and Pakistani portions of Kashmir has been reopened after parts badly damaged in last month 's earthquake were repaired .
An Indian army spokesman says the reopening has enabled faster delivery of relief supplies to villages on the Pakistani side that were flattened by the earthquake .
He said the final stretch of the road -- between the town of Uri in India and the Kaman Post crossing point on the military Line of Control -- was cleared Thursday .
Last month , India and Pakistan decided to open five check points along the de~facto border , including at Kaman Post , to hasten relief efforts for quake victims .
As part of an ongoing peace process between the two arch-rivals , the highway was re-opened six months ago after nearly 60 years to relaunch a bus service connecting the two Kashmiri capitals , Srinagar and Muzaffarabad .
Pakistani officials say a U.S. missile strike has killed at least 10 militants in a tribal region of northwest Pakistan .
Officials say a drone attack Tuesday destroyed a militant compound in the Datta Khel region of North Waziristan .
The United States has regularly launched attacks by the unmanned planes on the district , which is a stronghold of al-Qaida and the Taliban .
Meanwhile , Pakistani police say an anti-Taliban militia in Kurram , another tribal region along the Afghan border , killed 10 Taliban fighters Tuesday .
The militia attacked the Taliban fighters after they attempted to kidnap one of its members .
Last week , Pakistani intelligence officials said two suspected U.S. drone strikes killed at least 12 people in the North Waziristan village of Mizarkhel .
Such attacks have killed senior members of al-Qaida and the Taliban , but have sparked criticism from Pakistan 's government .
Russian news reports say a court ruled Monday that Mikhail Khodorkovsky and his business partner are guilty of embezzling property .
The verdict means the two have been found guilty of stealing oil from Khodorkovsky 's now-defunct company Yukos .
The judge has yet to announce a sentence .
Former chief executive of Yukos , Khodorkovsky - once Russia 's richest man - and his partner , Platon Lebedev , are accused of embezzling 350 million tons of oil and laundering about $ 25 billion in proceeds .
Both defendants deny the charges , saying they were framed for opposing Kremlin policies .
Khodorkovsky is currently nearing the end of an 8-year sentence for fraud and tax evasion .
The only African-American member of the United States Senate has begun a two-week tour of Africa .
On Sunday , Senator Barack Obama visited the South African island where Nelson Mandela was imprisioned during his long fight against apartheid .
Obama said the visit to Robben Island made him realize that everyday worries in the U.S. are " fairly trivial " compared to the struggle Mandela and other inmates went through .
Monday , Obama met with another anti-apartheid hero , South African archbishop Desmond Tutu , in Cape Town .
Obama is due to visit his father 's home country of Kenya as well as Congo and Chad during the trip .
He told reporters today that he will probably get an HIV test while in Kenya , in order to promote AIDS-prevention awareness .
Obama was elected to the U.S. Senate in November 2004 , representing the U.S. state of Illinois .
Fifty-one people are believed to have killed in a fiery bus crash in China 's mountainous southwest .
China 's official Xinhua news agency reported the bus left the road and plunged 100 meters into a valley in Sichuan province .
Witnesses say they heard an explosion and saw black smoke rising from the crash site .
Xinhua says Sichuan 's provincial governor , Jiang Jufeng , was on his way to supervise rescue and recovery efforts .
There are no reports of any survivors .
The bus was on its way from Sichuan to Ningbo , a coastal city south of Shanghai in eastern Zhejiang province China 's roads are among the most dangerous in the world with accidents often caused by reckless driving , poor road conditions and overloaded vehicles .
The widow of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl has sued al-Qaida , other radical groups and one of Pakistan 's largest banks , blaming them for the torture and murder of her husband .
In her lawsuit , Mariane Pearl alleges Habib Bank Limited knowingly provided financial services to charities linked to extremist groups .
It says with the bank 's backing , terrorists kidnapped , tortured and beheaded Daniel Pearl and broadcast the images .
The suit seeks an unspecified amount of money .
Daniel Pearl was the South Asia bureau chief of the Journal when he was kidnapped in the Pakistani city of Karachi in January 2002 while seeking an interview with suspected Islamist militants .
A videotape of Pearl 's killing was sent to the U.S. embassy in Karachi .
British-born militant Omar Sheikh and three other men have been convicted of his murder .
The White House says President Bush will return to the stricken Gulf Coast Sunday - this time for an overnight visit in Louisiana .
Mr. Bush has received increasing criticism for the government response to the national disaster wrought by Hurricane Katrina .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Friday the president is still looking at ideas for a federal " czar " to coordinate relief efforts .
Mr. Bush thanked 100 countries around the world for their offers of assistance and support , singling out Afghanistan and Sri Lanka .
In New Orleans , authorities are stepping up pressure on residents who have refused to leave the devastated city to get out now .
Thousands of police and National Guard troops are going from house to house , trying to make everyone leave and marking homes where they find bodies .
An estimate 5,000 to 10,000 residents remain in New Orleans , despite contaminated floodwaters and several raging fires .
The U.S. military says American and Iraqi forces have killed nine insurgents , including five suspected Syrians , in a village northwest of Baghdad .
U.S. military officials say the insurgents had fired rocket-propelled grenades and small arms at a U.S. and Iraqi patrol in Cykla .
The officials did not say when the clash occurred .
Washington and the Iraqi government say many insurgents in Iraq come from neighboring Arab countries .
On Thursday , insurgents killed seven people , including six Iraqi soldiers , in coordinated attacks in and around the capital .
The attacks came a day after Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terrorist group ( al-Qaida in Iraq ) claimed to have murdered two kidnapped Algerian diplomats .
Every year , millions of tourists visit Washington 's National Mall .
Many come to participate in events that take place in the U.S. capital .
But the Mall , the 4 kilometer-long green space stretching from the Lincoln Memorial to the domed Capitol Building , is in trouble .
Producer Zulima Palacio has the story , narrated by Jim Bertel , about the Mall 's decay and the urgent need for repair .
The U.S. Senate Thursday confirmed General David Petraeus as the country 's top military commander in the Middle East .
Lawmakers voted 95 - 2 to make General Petraeus the new leader of the U.S. Central Command , which oversees American forces in the Middle East , East Africa and Central Asia .
The Senate is expected to approve the nomination of Lt. General Raymond Odierno to replace Petraeus as the top U.S. commander in Iraq .
General Petraeus helped quell growing disapproval of the war in Iraq by providing Congress with progress reports and warning that the sudden withdrawal of U.S. troops could plunge Iraq into chaos and reverse progress that had been made .
During his confirmation hearings in May , General Petraeus said he expected to recommend further troop withdrawals before leaving his post in September .
The recommendation would follow a 45-day assessment period over coming months .
Nepal 's government says it has detained 43 people , top political leaders and other activists , for their " own personal safety " as well as to maintain law and order .
A Home Ministry statement Wednesday says 25 of the detainees are being held in government centers and the rest , under house arrest .
Tuesday , nine United Nations human rights investigators called on Nepal 's King Gyanendra to restore democracy in the country .
The King dissolved the constitutional government , seized power , and declared a nationwide state of emergency on February first .
The monarch and his hand-picked government curtailed most civil rights , including criticism of security forces , and banned protest rallies .
Nepal 's human rights groups say they plan to defy the ban by holding a protest demonstration on Thursday .
A South African court says two farm workers accused of killing a white supremacist leader will remain in custody until at least next month .
Court officials said Wednesday that a bail hearing for suspect Chris Mahlangu has been postponed until May 10 at the request of the man 's lawyer .
Meanwhile , the French News Agency says the lawyer for an unidentified 15-year-old suspect has withdrawn a bail application .
Authorities have charged the two workers , both of them black , with murdering Afrikaner Resistance Movement founder Eugene Terre'Blanche .
Terre'Blanche was found bludgeoned to death on his farm west of Johannesburg earlier this month .
Police say the killing may have stemmed from a pay dispute .
The incident has heightened racial tensions in South Africa .
President Jacob Zuma has appealed for calm .
India 's economy is growing at an unprecedented rate , prompting far-reaching changes that are rapidly transforming the country .
Among the most visible signs of the new India is a housing boom that targets the country 's growing middle class .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Anguilla has few natural resources , and the economy depends heavily on luxury tourism , offshore banking , lobster fishing , and remittances from emigrants .
Increased activity in the tourism industry has spurred the growth of the construction sector contributing to economic growth .
Anguillan officials have put substantial effort into developing the offshore financial sector , which is small but growing .
In the medium term , prospects for the economy will depend largely on the tourism sector and , therefore , on revived income growth in the industrialized nations as well as on favorable weather conditions .
Germany 's defense ministry says it is investigating photos published by a popular newspaper that appear to show German troops in Afghanistan posing with a skull .
The daily Bildnewspaper says the pictures were taken near Afghanistan 's capital , Kabul , in 2003 .
The paper says it does not know where the soldiers obtained the skull or how old it was .
German Defense Minister Josef Jung called the pictures disgusting and incomprehensible .
He said such behavior by German soldiers will not be tolerated .
Germany has about 2,800 troops in Afghanistan as part of the NATO peacekeeping mission .
Germany 's parliament voted last month to extend their deployment for another year .
The photos show the soldiers holding the skull up and fastening it to a vehicle like a hood ornament .
Another soldier is shown exposing himself next to the skull .
The newspaper did not say how it obtained the photos .
Niue 's remoteness , as well as cultural and linguistic differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest of the Cook Islands , have caused it to be separately administered .
The population of the island continues to drop ( from a peak of 5,200 in 1966 to an estimated 1,311 in 2011 ) with substantial emigration to New Zealand 2,400 km to the southwest .
Colombian security forces say they are investigating an alleged attempt to kill President Alvaro Uribe after an explosion in a building close to an airport , shortly before the president 's arrival there .
Officials say the blast occurred Thursday in the city Neiva about 230 kilometers south of Bogota .
They found what appeared to be a homemade rocket and two grenades .
The officials believe the devices exploded prematurely and suspect the rebel Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , FARC , may be behind the alleged plot .
President Uribe later arrived safely at the airport .
With the support of the United States , Mr. Uribe is waging a campaign against armed insurgents in Colombia .
U.S. Senator Al Franken says Laotian officials restricted his access to 4,500 Hmong refugees who were forcibly repatriated from Thailand last year .
The lawmaker traveled to Laos on Tuesday to observe the living conditions of the refugees .
He says he spoke with a group of 150 Hmong at village being built for them by the government , and took an aerial tour by helicopter .
Franken told reporters after his visit that he was " unhappy " with the amount of access he was granted .
He says he was accompanied by a high-ranking military official throughout his visit .
The Democratic senator represents Minnesota , which has one of the largest Hmong expatriate communities in the United States .
The senator traveled to Laos as part of a three-member delegation traveling to Vietnam this week , including Tom Harkin of Iowa and independent Bernie Sanders of Vermont .
Pope John Paul II will miss the re-enactment of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ , the first time he has not physically attended the ceremony in his 26-year pontificate .
Vatican officials say the 84-year-old pontiff may participate in the Way of the Cross procession at the Colosseum through a video link depending on his health .
The pope was hospitalized twice within the past month and had a tube inserted in his throat to relieve breathing difficulties .
He has delegated other Church officials to preside over ceremonies leading up to Easter , including Friday 's Good Friday events .
Vatican officials say they expect the pope to deliver his Urbi et Orbi blessing on Easter Sunday , when Christians celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ .
Pakistani authorities say they have arrested at least 27 suspected Taleban insurgents after a raid on a private hospital in southwestern Baluchistan province .
Local officials say initial investigation showed that the militants were brought from neighboring Afghanistan to the hospital in the provincial capital , Quetta .
They say several Taleban were being treated for wounds sustained in fighting in southern Afghanistan .
Last month , authorities in the restive Pakistani province arrested more than 200 Afghan nationals suspected of having links with Taleban militants .
Among those caught was a former commander of Taleban forces in southern Afghanistan .
The raids follow months of pressure from the Afghan government , the U.S.-led coalition and NATO forces in neighboring Afghanistan , who want Islamabad to act more forcefully against the Taleban remnants hiding in Pakistan .
A Jordanian military court has sentenced to jail 10 Islamic militants for plotting attacks on U.S. forces in Jordan and Iraq .
The court handed out prison terms of two to five years .
At least one of those found guilty has been linked to al-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
Ten other suspects , including a Syrian national , were found not-guilty .
The 17 were rounded up in 2005 .
They faced several charges , including plotting to attack U.S. troops who were training Iraqi forces in Jordan at the time .
They were also accused of plotting activity to undermine Jordan 's relations with another country .
The head of the U.S. central bank says banks must be smarter about the ways they pay their executives , and government must find better ways to cope with the failure of large financial firms .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke Friday to a group of community bankers in Phoenix in the western U.S. state of Arizona .
He said " poorly designed " compensation policies can create the wrong incentives and jeopardize the bank 's health .
Bernanke urged bankers to find ways to align executive pay with the long-term interests of the bank .
Bernanke spoke after $ 165 million in bonus payments to executives of the troubled AIG insurance company - which has been propped up with billions of dollars in taxpayers ' money - caused a huge political upheaval .
He also said the government must find a safer way to shut down large financial firms outside the banking sector without disrupting the entire financial system .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is calling for presidential elections to be held four months earlier than an election date set by the country 's Independent Election Commission .
President Karzai issued a decree Saturday noting the constitution requires the vote to be held 30 to 60 days before his five-year term expires on May 21 .
The Independent Election Commission announced last month that it rescheduled the election for August 20 to give incoming U.S. forces time to stabilize the country .
The commission also said it needed time to work out logistical issues and wanted to avoid holding the vote during Afghanistan 's harsh winter weather .
Opposition leaders have insisted that President Karzai step down when his term expires in May and install a caretaker government .
U.S. support for the embattled president came into question after the Obama administration openly accused Mr. Karzai of failing to crack down on government corruption .
Witnesses say gunmen have opened fire on the motorcade of Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh .
Palestinian officials say Mr. Haniyeh was not hurt in the attack Friday in Gaza .
The incident comes amid a power struggle between the ruling group Hamas of Prime Minister Haniyeh and the more moderate Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
The Associated Press reported that disgruntled relatives of a Fatah activist killed in recent fighting with Hamas were responsible for the attack .
Iran says it will sign a deal next week with Russia under which Moscow will provide fuel to Iran 's Bushehr nuclear power plant .
Iranian state television quotes a deputy head of Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization , Asadollah Sabouri , as saying a pact , which obligates Tehran to return spent nuclear fuel to Russia , will be signed February 26 .
Under the deal , Mr. Sabouri says Russia will provide the Bushehr plant with nuclear fuel for the next 10 years .
Moscow and Tehran have been locked in negotiations over the final disposition of spent fuel .
Russia had refused further assistance in developing the Bushehr plant until Tehran agreed to return the spent fuel , which can be used in the development of nuclear weapons .
The United States says it suspects Iran is trying to develop such weaponry , despite Tehran 's assertions its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
President Bush is calling on U.S. lawmakers to pass legislation that will limit jury awards in medical malpractice lawsuits .
During a speech in Illinois Wednesday , Mr. Bush promoted legislation that would limit damages awarded for pain and suffering to $ 250,000 .
The president says the bill is necessary to put a stop to lawsuits he calls " frivolous . "
The president says excessive jury awards from malpractice lawsuits are forcing doctors out of medicine , because they can not afford the rising costs of malpractice insurance premiums .
But critics say Mr. Bush 's bill favors big insurance companies and drug makers , and does nothing about the rising costs of prescription drugs and insurance premiums .
Mr. Bush made the issue one of the central themes during his re-election campaign .
Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri says Islamabad is willing to seal its border with Afghanistan by building a fence to stop militants from infiltrating into Afghan territory .
Kasuri made the remark during Sunday talks with his Dutch counterpart , Bernard Bot , who suggested sealing the border during his visit in the Afghan capital , Kabul , a day earlier .
He also said that the fenced border should be jointly monitored by both Pakistani and Afghan security forces .
A Foreign Ministry statement says Bot welcomed Pakistan 's readiness to seal the Afghan-Pakistani border and told Kasuri he would discuss this with other NATO partners .
Afghan officials say Taleban leaders frequently find shelter in Pakistan .
Islamabad denies those accusations , saying it has deployed 80,000 troops in the rugged border region to hunt down Taleban and al-Qaida fugitives .
The United Nations mission in Liberia says it will respond strongly after threatening text messages were sent to the chief of the electoral commission .
National Elections Commission head Frances Johnson-Morris has told news organizations she laughed when she received two recent messages sent to her mobile phone .
But the U.N. mission in Liberia says it is taking the threats seriously , describing them as a serious impediment to the consolidation of peace and stability in Liberia .
The United Nations also says it will respond " robustly " to any threats of violence against individuals involved in the election process .
Liberians have been widely praised for holding peaceful and transparent elections on October 11 , the nation 's first post-war poll .
A presidential run-off vote is expected in November between the two top vote-getters , former football ( soccer ) star George Weah and former cabinet minister and World Bank economist Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf .
Israel 's top general has announced the military will investigate allegations that Israeli soldiers abused and photographed the bodies of Palestinian suicide bombers and those killed during Israeli military operations .
Lieutenant General Moshe Yaalon made the announcement Friday , responding to abuse charges in Israel 's largest selling newspaper , Yediot Aharonot .
General Yaalon condemned the alleged abuses and said maintaining the army 's ethical strength is as important as sustaining its military power .
The newspaper 's report included soldiers ' accounts of several incidents , including one in which troops put a cigarette in the mouth of a dead suicide bomber and then posed for photographs with the corpse .
Another incident details the shooting death of an apparently unarmed Palestinian man , whose remains were then strapped to the hood of a jeep and driven back to base .
British prime minister says it wants other allies - not including the United States - to send another 5,000 troops as well .
In National Football League action Monday night , Denver 's Mike Anderson scored on a 44-yard touchdown run and Rod Smith reached a career milestone as the host Broncos rolled over the Kansas City Chiefs 30-10 .
Smith , who caught a touchdown , finished with seven catches for 80 yards , putting him over 10,000 receiving yards for his career .
He is the 24th player in league history to reach the mark and first undrafted player to do so .
Denver quarterback Jake Plummer also scored on a one-yard touchdown run and kicker Jason Elam kicked three field goals .
Kansas City 's lone touchdown came with two minutes to go , a pass from quarterback Trent Green to receiver Samie Parker .
It was Green 's first touchdown pass of the season .
A suicide bomb attack on a convoy of Canadian troops in southern Afghanistan has killed three civilians , including a Canadian official .
Hospital sources in Kandahar city say another 12 people , including three Canadian soldiers , were wounded in Sunday 's blast .
Witnesses say the bomber slammed his explosive-laden vehicle into the convoy .
Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin confirmed the Canadian casualties during an election campaign appearance in Quebec .
He offered condolences to the victim 's family , and described Canada 's presence in Afghanistan as essential to establishing peace and security there .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban claimed responsibility for the attack .
The Taleban has also claimed responsibility for Saturday 's killing in Kandahar of a former Taleban intelligence chief who renounced the group after it was ousted from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001 .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say monsoon rains have caused a house to collapse south of Srinagar , killing six members of a family .
One person was rescued from the debris .
Local officials say heavy rains also forced authorities to close the Himalayan region 's main highways , leaving thousands of motorists stranded .
Military units are on standby for flood relief operations .
Monsoon rains sweep through South Asia every year from June to September , killing hundreds of people .
They bring misery to millions of people , but are also crucial for the farm-dependent economies .
Conservative Muslim candidates have swept elections in Saudi Arabia 's first nationwide municipal vote , giving rise to complaints that they had an unfair advantage because of religious endorsements .
Thursday 's voting in the western part of the kingdom completed the three-phase vote , which began in February .
Western region winners were announced Saturday .
In the holy city of Medina , as well as in the ultra-conservative town of Buraydah , cleric-supported candidates swept the vote .
In Jeddah , long considered one of the country 's most liberal cities , voters also chose conservatives .
Saudi men over age 21 voted for half the members of the kingdom 's municipal councils .
The government will appoint the remaining half .
U.S. military officials have announced they are delaying the trial of an Australian man accused of fighting for Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime .
The presiding officer , Colonel Peter Brownback , granted the delay Wednesday to allow for what he called a full and fair trial of Australian David Hicks .
Mr. Hicks has been detained at Guantanamo Bay since he was captured in late 2001 .
Officials said the trial has been moved to March 15 from its originally scheduled date of January 10 .
David Hicks was among the first of the detainees at Guantanamo to be arraigned before a military tribunal .
He has pleaded not guilty to charges of aiding the enemy , conspiracy to commit war crimes and attempted murder while fighting alongside the Taleban .
Mr. Hicks ' father , Terry , welcomed the delay , saying the defense needs more time to plan its case .
North Korea released a South Korean fishing boat and its seven-man crew Tuesday , after asking South Korea for a shipment of rice , cement and heavy equipment to help it recover from recent flooding .
Pyongyang announced on Monday that it would free the squid-fishing boat and its crew of four South Koreans and three Chinese seized a month ago for alleged illegal fishing .
North Korea called the release a " humanitarian " gesture .
South Korean media said Tuesday that freeing the ship and its crew was a step toward receiving food aid .
The North 's aid request came after Seoul offered last week to provide $ 8.5 million in emergency aid , including food , relief materials and first aid kits .
That offer did not include rice or construction equipment and supplies .
The Unification Ministry said Tuesday that the South Korean government is reviewing the request .
A former British colony , Cyprus became independent in 1960 following years of resistance to British rule .
Tensions between the Greek Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head in December 1963 , when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia .
Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964 , sporadic intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into enclaves throughout the island .
In 1974 , a Greek Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by military intervention from Turkey , which soon controlled more than a third of the island .
In 1983 , the Turkish Cypriot-occupied area declared itself the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus " ( " TRNC " ) , but it is recognized only by Turkey .
The election of a new Cypriot president in 2008 served as the impetus for the UN to encourage both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities to reopen unification negotiations .
In September 2008 , the leaders of the two communities began negotiations under UN auspices aimed at reuniting the divided island ; the talks remain ongoing .
The entire island entered the EU on 1 May 2004 , although the EU acquis - the body of common rights and obligations - applies only to the areas under the internationally recognized government , and is suspended in the areas administered by Turkish Cypriots .
However , individual Turkish Cypriots able to document their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus citizenship legally enjoy the same rights accorded to other citizens of European Union states .
A slimy Justin Timberlake emerged victorious at the 20th annual Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice Awards .
Making good on his promise to make this year 's edition the messiest ever , the singer - who also hosted the show - was both dispenser and recipient of the signature green goo .
He took honors for Best Male Singer .
Other winners included Adam Sandler as favorite male movie star ; Dakota Fanning as favorite female movie star , and Ben Stiller , who took the evening 's top honor , the Wannabe Award .
It signifies the celebrity the youthful voters most want to emulate .
Nickelodeon says the lighthearted Kids ' Choice Awards last year received 25 million online votes .
The Palestinian parliament has approved the government proposed by Hamas , clearing the way for the Islamic militant group to take office .
Lawmakers voted on the Cabinet Tuesday , one day after Prime Minister-designate Ismail Haniyeh presented his government .
The approval was expected because Hamas holds a majority in the parliament .
On Monday , Mr. Haniyeh called on the Quartet of mediators - the United States , the European Union , Russia and the United Nations - to help reach peace in the Middle East .
But he added his militant group will not disarm or recognize Israel .
U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack says Hamas must take those steps before it can take part in talks .
Tuvalu consists of a densely populated , scattered group of nine coral atolls with poor soil .
The country has no known mineral resources and few exports and is almost entirely dependent upon imported food and fuel .
Subsistence farming and fishing are the primary economic activities .
Fewer than 1,000 tourists , on average , visit Tuvalu annually .
Job opportunities are scarce and public sector workers make up most of those employed .
About 15 % of the adult male population work as seamen on merchant ships abroad , and remittances are a vital source of income contributing around $ 2 million in 2007 .
Substantial income is received annually from the Tuvalu Trust Fund ( TTF ) an international trust fund established in 1987 by Australia , NZ , and the UK and supported also by Japan and South Korea .
Thanks to wise investments and conservative withdrawals , this fund grew from an initial $ 17 million to an estimated value of $ 77 million in 2006 .
The TTF contributed nearly $ 9 million towards the government budget in 2006 and is an important cushion for meeting shortfalls in the government 's budget .
The US Government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu because of payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries .
In an effort to ensure financial stability and sustainability , the government is pursuing public sector reforms , including privatization of some government functions and personnel cuts .
Tuvalu also derives royalties from the lease of its " .tv " Internet domain name with revenue of more than $ 2 million in 2006 .
A minor source of government revenue comes from the sale of stamps and coins .
With merchandise exports only a fraction of merchandise imports , continued reliance must be placed on fishing and telecommunications license fees , remittances from overseas workers , official transfers , and income from overseas investments .
Growing income disparities and the vulnerability of the country to climatic change are among leading concerns for the nation .
The head of Cuba 's parliament is offering to support Iran in its fight to develop nuclear energy within Iranian borders .
Speaker of parliament Ricardo Alarcon voiced solidarity Thursday in a meeting with the visiting speaker of Iran 's parliament , Gholam Ali Haddad Adel .
Iran resumed enrichment of uranium for nuclear fuel earlier this week , despite international pressure against the move .
Haddad Adel is on a two-day visit to Cuba after spending Wednesday in Venezuela , where he thanked the government for its support on nuclear issues .
Before leaving Cuba , he is expected to meet with Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque and Vice President Carlos Lage .
Venezuela and Cuba have both opposed a move by the U.N. nuclear agency to report Iran as noncompliant with atomic energy regulations .
The Zambian government says President Levy Mwanawasa has suffered a stroke .
The president was hospitalized Sunday in the Egyptian resort of Sharm El Sheikh , where he was preparing to attend Monday 's summit of African Union leaders .
Zambian Vice President Rupiah Banda says in a statement Monday that Mr. Mwanawasa is being attended to by doctors and his condition is stable .
The Zambian president fell ill on Sunday after attending an AU committee meeting on United Nations reform .
An initial statement from Zambia 's foreign minister had described his ailment as a consequence of high blood pressure .
The AU summit has so far focused largely on the political crisis in Zimbabwe .
Mr. Mwanawasa is known as a critic of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe , but has said he will not comment on the current situation before AU leaders discuss the matter .
India 's government plans to spend nearly $ 13 million to create a special force to protect the endangered tiger population .
Finance Minister P. Chidambaram announced to parliament Friday that the money will be used to raise , arm and deploy a special tiger protection force .
A recent survey found India 's tiger population has declined to just over 1,400 from 3,600 in 2002 .
Chidambaram said the number should ring an alarm bell and that the tiger is under grave threat .
India 's government last month pledged to spend $ 150 million to create new tiger reserves and shift villages and tribal communities out of tiger habitats .
Officials have also opened a national wildlife crime bureau to counter the poaching of tigers and other endangered animals .
Tiger hunting is illegal worldwide .
Poachers often sell tiger skins and other body parts to China for use in traditional medicine .
Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian Empire , Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in World War I .
Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945 , Austria 's status remained unclear for a decade .
A State Treaty signed in 1955 ended the occupation , recognized Austria 's independence , and forbade unification with Germany .
A constitutional law that same year declared the country 's " perpetual neutrality " as a condition for Soviet military withdrawal .
The Soviet Union 's collapse in 1991 and Austria 's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the meaning of this neutrality .
A prosperous , democratic country , Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999 .
A Russian rights group says at least 2.5 million children in Russia are homeless .
The chairman of the group - known as " The Children are Russia 's Future " told reporters Wednesday over 30,000 children and teenagers go missing every year in Russia .
He also said over the past five years Russian authorities have uncovered 190 networks trafficking children .
U.S. Marines fighting in Fallujah say they have found the mutilated body of what appears to be a Caucasian woman .
A Marine patrol found the unidentified body in a street of the violence-torn Iraqi city .
Two Western women who also have Iraqi citizenship are known to have been kidnapped in Iraq .
Both have been missing since separate abductions last month .
They are British aid worker Margaret Hassan and Teresa Borcz , a native of Poland .
The new head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has told employees to expect more changes in the agency 's organization and personnel .
CIA Director Porter Goss sent out an e-mail message Monday , a few hours after two top CIA officials resigned .
The officials , Deputy Director for Operations Stephen Kappes and his deputy Michael Sulik , had reportedly clashed with aides that Mr. Goss brought with him from Congress , where he chaired the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee .
Two other top CIA officials announced their resignations last week .
In his e-mail , Mr. Goss appeared to rebut charges from Democrats that he has a partisan agenda favoring President Bush .
He told employees to " let the facts alone speak to the policymakers . "
The president named Mr. Goss to head the CIA in August , in part to reform the agency many have criticized as ill equipped to fight the war on terror .
Afghan officials say a NATO airstrike has killed 13 Taleban militants after the insurgents attacked a government building near the Pakistan border .
Authorities said Saturday the militants attacked the district government headquarters in Alishar in southeastern Khost province late Friday .
A gun battle broke out with Afghan police , who called for NATO air support .
Five policemen were wounded .
Khost Governor Arsala Jamal says the Taleban militants were killed as they retreated .
On Friday , the governor of southern Ghazni province , Mirajuddin Patan told VOA that 100 Afghan troops drove the Taleban from Giro District a day after the militants had taken control of the area .
Over the past year , a resurgent Taleban movement carried out the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban government in November 2001 .
A Chechen militant website says Shamil Basayev , who is wanted in Russia for leading numerous terrorist attacks , has been named second-in-command of the separatist Chechen government A statement on the kavkazcenter.com web site says Mr. Basayev was named first deputy prime minister and put in charge of the armed forces .
The statement was attributed to Abdul-Khalim Sadulayev , who succeeded Aslan Maskhadov as president of Chechnya 's breakaway government when the Chechen leader was killed in March .
Mr. Basayev left Chechnya 's administration in 2002 under pressure from Mr. Maskhadov for being too violent .
Mr. Basayev claims responsibility for last year 's school seizure in Beslan , a town in southern Russia , in which more than 330 people were killed .
Chechnya has been rocked by about a decade of fighting between separatist forces and Russian federal government troops .
At least 60 people are confirmed dead and more than 400 remain missing after the Shadi Kor dam ruptured in southwestern Pakistan Thursday .
More than 1,500 people have been rescued from the floodwaters after the two-year-old dam failed .
Primarily used for irrigation , the 25-meter-high , 150-meter-long dam was destroyed by a wall of water after a week of heavy rain and snow that has caused over 120 storm-related deaths in the region .
Members of Pakistan 's army , navy and coast guard are leading relief efforts at the disaster site in Baluchistan Province .
An estimated 50,000 people in the province have been affected with the loss of roads , bridges , houses , crops and telecommunications , much of which remains under water .
Several more days of severe , wet weather are expected .
China says the next round of six-party talks on North Korean 's nuclear program will last for three days .
The official news agency , Xinhua , says the talks will begin Wednesday at the Diaoyu State Guest House in Beijing and last through Friday .
This is the fifth round of talks involving China , the two Koreas , the United States , Russia and Japan .
All sides have agreed that North Korea would scrap its nuclear programs in exchange for energy assistance and other benefits .
However , sharp differences among the parties remain .
After the previous round ended in September , Pyongyang said it will not disarm unless it is first given a civilian ( light-water ) nuclear reactor to generate electricity .
U.S. officials said the demand is not acceptable .
" SEE these valuable golden eggs , " said a Man that owned a Goose .
" Surely a Goose which can lay such eggs as those must have a gold mine inside her . "
So he killed the Goose and cut her open , but found that she was just like any other goose .
Moreover , on examining the eggs that she had laid he found they were just like any other eggs .
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter is resting comfortably after being hospitalized in the midwestern U.S. city of Cleveland , Ohio .
A statement from the Carter Center in the southeastern city of Atlanta , Georgia , says the former president developed an upset stomach during a flight to Cleveland Tuesday .
A spokeswoman at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport says rescue crews met Mr. Carter 's plane at the airport and took him to the hospital .
The former president was in Cleveland to sign his new book , White House Diary .
The Carter Center says he is expected to resume his book tour later this week .
Mr. Carter is 85-years-old and served as U.S. president from 1977 to 1981 .
U.S. President Barack Obama said he plans to call Mr. Carter to check on his condition .
The International Atomic Energy Agency was set up by the United Nations in 1957 as the so-called " Atoms for Peace " program , to promote the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy .
Since 1970 , its tasks have included verifying compliance with the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
With headquarters in Vienna , Austria , the agency employs a staff of more than 2,200 people from 90 countries .
The IAEA 's main decisions are made by two policy-making bodies - the General Conference of all 138 member states ; and an elected board of governors , whose 35 members serve a one-year term .
The agency not only deals with current issues such as Iran 's and North Korea 's nuclear programs , but it also helps countries with their nuclear safety arrangements and offers assistance to countries wishing to upgrade civilian nuclear safety .
Iraqi police say five people have been killed in a bomb blast near a funeral tent in the capital .
Authorities say another 28 people were wounded in Wednesday 's blast in Baghdad 's mostly Shi'ite slum of Sadr City .
Elsewhere in the country Wednesday , Iraqi officials say a car bomb blast killed six people , including two traffic police officers , in western Anbar province .
Authorities say a police checkpoint in the provincial capital , Ramadi , was the target of the attack .
Sixteen people were wounded in the explosion .
Iraq has seen multiple deadly attacks in the two weeks since U.S. combat troops withdrew from Iraqi cities .
The U.S. military says it has filed charges against two U.S. soldiers in the killing of an Iraqi civilian last February .
The military said Sunday Specialist Nathan B. Lynn was charged with voluntary manslaughter for allegedly shooting an unarmed man February 15 .
The military says Lynn and Sergeant Milton Ortiz were charged with obstruction of justice for allegedly conspiring with another soldier who has been accused of placing an AK-47 near the body of the mortally wounded man .
Ortiz has also been charged with assault in a separate incident in March .
The U.S. military has come under scrutiny concerning a number of incidents of abuse of Iraqis since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 .
Travel for this year 's Thanksgiving holiday in the United States is expected to reach levels not seen since the September 11 terrorist attacks three years ago .
A leading U.S. travel association , the American Automobile Association , predicts that some 37 million Americans will venture at least 80 kilometers from home .
It says about 4.6 million travelers will go by plane and endure the long security procedures put in place after the terror attacks carried out by 19 al-Qaida skyjackers .
Another 30 million Americans are expected to travel by car , leading to long traffic jams around major cities .
Elections officials in Afghanistan have disqualified dozens of candidates from the country 's upcoming parliamentary elections because of alleged links to militias .
A commissioner of the U.N.-backed Electoral Complaints Commission , Ahmad Zia Rafat , said Wednesday that 36 names were removed from the list of final candidates .
The ECC said the candidates were given a chance to fight their disqualification , but they failed to prove their eligibility to run in the September election .
Afghanistan 's election laws prohibit any members of illegal armed groups from seeking office .
Afghan election officials have said they are determined to hold a fair parliamentary election , after fraud allegations marred last year 's presidential vote .
The ECC found there were massive irregularities in those ballots , and threw out a third of the votes cast for President Hamid Karzai .
Authorities in Greece have sent riot police to a top tourist attraction after striking government workers shut down the Acropolis for a second day .
Police were stationed outside the entrance to the site Thursday , where workers have blockaded the gate .
The culture ministry employees are protesting the dismissal of workers whose contracts expire at the end of the month .
They are also demanding the government provide months of unpaid salaries .
Dozens of tourists were also outside the site Thursday .
The Acropolis is a UNESCO World Heritage site that holds the ruins of several ancient Greek temples , including the famed Parthenon .
The World Health Organization has confirmed that a one-year-old girl has become the 23rd person in Indonesia to die of the H5N1 bird flu virus .
WHO officials say the girl died about a week ago at a Jakarta hospital .
Indonesia has seen more deaths from the virus than any other nation except Vietnam .
Meanwhile , health officials in Jordan Friday confirmed that nation 's first human case of bird flu .
They say a 31-year-old Egyptian worker is being treated and is in good condition .
On Thursday , health authorities in Afghanistan began investigating the deaths of three children from the same family on suspicion they might have died of bird flu .
The deadly form of bird flu has killed more than 100 people since 2003 , mostly in East Asia .
It has recently spread to Europe , Africa and the Middle East .
Israel 's Security Cabinet has decided to continue military strikes against Palestinian militants firing rockets from Gaza into Israel .
The cabinet said it based the decision on the relative decrease in rocket attacks since Israeli airstrikes started almost two weeks ago .
Israel has also conducted a limited number of ground raids against the militants .
A statement from the office of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert added that Israel is not involved in any cease-fire talks with the militants .
Earlier Wednesday , an Israeli airstrike killed two Hamas militants in a northern Gaza refugee camp .
About 50 Palestinians , mostly militants , have been killed in the Israeli attacks .
Palestinian rockets have killed two Israelis since mid-May .
India has released 24 Pakistani prisoners detained for border violations .
The men , who spent between six months and 15 years in Indian jails for straying into Indian territory , were handed over to Pakistani authorities at the Wagah border crossing Thursday .
The handover comes ahead of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf 's visit to New Delhi to watch the final cricket match between Indian and Pakistani cricket teams .
The visit is part of efforts to improve relations between the two nuclear neighbors and establish a lasting peace in the region .
India and Pakistan often arrest villagers and fishermen for illegally entering each other 's territory and territorial waters .
During peace talks , which started last year , the two countries agreed to expedite the release of such prisoners .
Israeli forces have killed three Palestinians in a pair of operations in the Gaza Strip .
Military officials said troops shot and killed a man walking near the Israeli border in central Gaza Saturday .
Earlier , Israeli tanks backed by helicopters raided the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun .
Israeli officials said two men were killed in a shoot-out between troops and Palestinian gunmen .
Israeli forces have been operating in Gaza since militants abducted an Israeli soldier in June .
An Egyptian newspaper , Al-Ahram , quoted President Hosni Mubarak as saying negotiations were under way to free the soldier .
Meanwhile , tens of thousands of Palestinian teachers and other government employees went on strike in the West Bank and Gaza Strip to demand unpaid salaries .
Fatah gunmen surrounded schools to enforce the strike , while Hamas militiamen tried to keep schools open .
President Bush is on his way to Canada for a two-day trip that will mark his first official visit to America 's northern neighbor .
The visit is widely seen as an effort to repair relations damaged by trade issues and Canada 's refusal to send troops to Iraq .
Tuesday , Mr. Bush will meet with Prime Minister Paul Martin in the Canadian capital , Ottawa .
The White House says the two leaders will likely discuss at least one of the main trade disputes - U.S. restrictions on the import of Canadian beef .
Anti-Bush protesters are expected to rally in both Ottawa and the coastal city of Halifax , which the president will visit on Wednesday .
Mr. Bush is going to Halifax to thank people who housed air travelers diverted during the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks .
Supporters of Pakistan 's suspended chief justice have taken to the streets in a show of solidarity .
Supporters of Judge Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry chanted slogans Saturday demanding the resignation of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
They rallied as the chief justice traveled from Islamabad to the eastern city of Faisalabad .
General Musharraf fired Chaudhry in March , accusing him of abuse of power .
The judge denies the charges and has challenged the president 's decision in the Supreme Court .
His dismissal has fueled the biggest opposition to President Musharraf since the general seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999 .
Tens of thousands of people have rallied in support of the judge as he traveled to various rallies across the country since he was fired .
India says it would consider granting autonomy to the disputed region of Kashmir to help make peace with Pakistan , but added it will not redraw its borders .
India 's Foreign Minister Natwar Singh said at a news conference Thursday , that as far as regional autonomy is concerned , " the sky is the limit . "
Mr. Singh also said a solution based on autonomy in Kashmir would require " a great deal of hard work , goodwill and trust " between the two sides and would not happen overnight .
The Indian minister said he presented this option to Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , who ended a visit to New Delhi on Wednesday .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has also said India would never agree to redraw its borders to resolve the dispute over Kashmir .
But Pakistan insists it can not accept the military Line of Control in the region as an international border .
A United Nations official has said Liberia is meeting benchmarks that would end Security Council sanctions on Liberian diamonds and timber .
U.N. Sanctions chief Ellen Loj told reporters Saturday in Monrovia that Liberia has more work to do , but is working diligently to meet the conditions set for the lifting of the trade sanctions .
A ban on Liberian diamonds was imposed in 2001 by the U.N. Security Council after a British investigation found former Liberian President Charles Taylor was trading the diamonds for weapons for rebels in neighboring Sierra Leone .
The timber sanctions were imposed in 2003 when the Security Council said Taylor was using timber proceeds to fund war at home and in Sierra Leone .
Ellen Loj said the Security Council will meet in June to review the sanctions .
Philippine officials say heavy rain in mountainous provinces in the north of the country have triggered landslides , killing more than 90 people .
The northern Philippines has been pounded by heavy rain since Typhoon Parma hit the country on Saturday .
Forecasters say Parma was still lingering off the northeastern coast of the Philippines , as it began moving across the South China Sea toward Vietnam .
Parma is the second major storm to hit the country in two weeks .
Officials say the landslides have pushed the overall death toll from two weeks of devastating storms on the islands past 450 .
Meanwhile in Japan , a separate powerful typhoon tore through the main island Thursday , peeling roofs off houses , and cutting off electricity to hundreds of thousands .
The storm has killed at least four people .
The U.S. military says it has released more than 11,000 Iraqis from military detention centers this year .
In a statement issued Saturday coalition forces said the prisoners who were once considered a security threat , have completed their detainment and can go on to lead productive lives .
American military spokesman Major Neal Fisher says less than one percent of those released have been detained again .
He also said at the current rate , the U.S. military expects to reach its goal of having released more than 12,000 detainees by mid-September .
Iraq 's ambassador to the United Nations is calling for the lifting of all remaining sanctions imposed on the ousted regime of Saddam Hussein .
Ambassador Samir Sumaidaie made the appeal Tuesday - two days after his country voted in landmark elections .
He said all sanctions placed on the previous regime are inappropriate now since Iraq has clearly shown the world that it is a new country and wants to be at peace with its neighbors .
The Iraqi diplomat said it is also time to begin phasing out the use of oil proceeds to compensate victims of Iraq 's 1990 invasion of Kuwait , and lift the arms embargo imposed shortly after that invasion .
Meanwhile , more than 200 workers at Iraq 's election headquarters in Baghdad are compiling results from Sunday 's historic vote .
A U.S. congressman in the Democratic Party says the recently unveiled shortfalls in care at a Washington , D.C. military hospital indicate a " catastrophic failure of leadership " by the Bush administration .
Congressman Harry Mitchell of the southwestern state of Arizona said in the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday , that problems similar to those found at Walter Reed military hospital are being uncovered elsewhere in the military medical care system .
He said it is a problem that can not be fixed simply with drywall and paint .
Mitchell said voters should hold the Bush administration accountable for those shortfalls because it did not provide adequate funding .
He said Democrats have added $ 3.5 billion for veterans ' care to the president 's budget request for war funding .
Congress has not voted yet to approve this year 's budget .
" Undercover Brother " may be good at karate , but his driving needs improvement .
Comedian Eddie Griffin crashed a Ferrari Enzo sportscar worth an estimated $ 1.5 million .
The March 26 accident occurred at Irwindale Speedway in California , when the movie comic drove too fast around a curve .
He was practicing for a charity race to promote his upcoming movie Redline .
Eddie Griffin , whose film credits include Undercover Brother and two Deuce Bigalow movies , walked away unhurt from the crash .
The car belonged to Redline executive producer Daniel Sadek , whose exotic car collection is featured in the movie .
Ferrari produced a total of 400 Enzos between 2002 and 2004 .
Police say Ms. Chang , who wrote about the Japanese occupation of China and the history of Chinese immigrants in the United States , was found dead in her car along a road south of San Francisco .
The official cause of death has not been officially determined , but investigators believe the 36-year-old writer died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound .
Ms. Chang 's best-known work was the 1997 bestseller " The Rape of Nanking , " which described the rape , torture and killings of Chinese civilians at the hands of Japanese troops in the 1930s .
Ms. Chang also wrote " The Chinese in America , " which looked at the history of Chinese immigrants and their descendants in the United States .
A group of climate researchers says there is evidence that global warming is causing the Antarctic ice cap to melt more quickly than it did 10 years ago .
The scientists said Monday they used satellite data to monitor the Antarctic coastline .
They found the ice sheet on the Earth 's southern pole lost 59 percent more ice in 2006 than it did in 1996 .
The researchers say western antarctica lost 132 billion tons of ice in 2006 , enough to raise worldwide sea levels by 0.5 millimeter .
The team 's leader , Eric Rignot of NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory , said warmer temperatures appear to be accelerating the movement of coastal Antarctic glaciers into the sea .
The researchers say their findings may cause scientists to revise their predictions about rising sea levels around the world .
A car bomb explosion in Iraq has killed five people , including four police officers who were on patrol .
Officials say a civilian was also among the dead in the town of Khan Bani Saad , near Baquba , just north of Baghdad .
At least three other people were injured .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military reported Saturday , that a Marine was killed in action Friday , in the western city of Ramadi .
In political news , the Iraqi National Assembly is scheduled to meet Sunday to finally elect a speaker .
But politicians say Shi'ite and Sunni leaders are still not able to agree on a Sunni candidate for the post .
The impasse has delayed formation of the new government .
Vote counting in Iraq 's constitutional referendum continued Sunday , with spot checks of preliminary results suggesting the U.S.-backed charter may have passed .
The Associated Press says an early vote count in crucial Diyala province showed 70 percent of voters saying " yes " to the constitution .
And with most ballots counted in Ninevah province , AP reports " yes " votes were outnumbering " no " nearly four to one .
Diyala and Ninevah are two of four key provinces where Sunni Arab opponents were relying on residents to defeat the constitution .
The charter will pass with a simple majority , but will fail if two-thirds of voters in any three provinces reject it .
More results are expected later today and Monday .
The U.S. military says that five American soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in the mostly Sunni city of Ramadi during voting on Saturday , but otherwise said the day was relatively peaceful .
German officials say the German woman who was taken hostage in Iraq last month has been freed and appears to be in good health .
Germany 's foreign minister ( Frank-Walter Steinmeier ) says archaeologist Susanne Osthoff is now in the German embassy in Baghdad .
He gave no information on her release , saying only that she is no longer in the hands of the kidnappers .
Ms. Osthoff and her driver disappeared on November 25 in the Nineveh region of northwest Iraq .
She had been working in Iraq more than ten years .
Hong Kong 's interim leader says he will ask China to interpret the section of the territory 's Basic Law that covers the term length for its chief executive .
Donald Tsang says he is making the request to avoid legal challenges that could derail the July 10 election to pick a successor to Tung Chee-hwa , who resigned last month with two years remaining on his five-year term .
The Hong Kong government says Mr. Tung 's successor will only serve out those two years , but pro-democracy activists say that violates the city 's Basic Law , which says each elected chief executive will serve a full five-year term .
The opposition fears that Beijing 's involvement could compromise the territory 's autonomy .
Mr. Tsang is expected to win the July vote .
U.S. Navy helicopters will begin airlifting survivors from remote areas of Indonesia 's tsunami-devastated Aceh province , a move the United Nations calls vital to rescue operations in the region .
U.S. , Australian and Indonesian military helicopters are also dropping food and supplies to hungry people left stranded in isolated western areas of the province .
Large areas of Aceh province remain inaccessible to emergency crews on the ground one week after the area was battered by massive waves triggered by a 9.0 magnitude earthquake near its coast .
The tsunami pounded coastlines in a dozen Indian Ocean countries , leaving 127,000 people known dead .
Millions more people are now homeless and in need of emergency assistance .
Aid is being rushed to the region , but logistical bottlenecks , destroyed infrastructure , and bad weather are hindering distribution .
Relief agencies warn it may take weeks to get aid to some needy people .
The Afghan government has rejected any conditions for peace talks with the Taleban , after the Islamist militants demanded the withdrawal of all foreign troops from the country .
Presidential spokesman Homayun Hamidzada said Tuesday the Afghan government is not open to any negotiations with preconditions .
He added that the only promise the government will make is for the safety of rebel negotiators .
A Taleban spokesman told Reuters News agency that the group is sticking to its demands .
Last week , the Taleban expressed a willingness for negotiations only if all of the 50,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan leave the country .
The Taleban was ousted from power in Afghanistan by a U.S.-led offensive in late 2001 .
Militant attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan have escalated over the past 19 months , marking the bloodiest period since the beginning of the war .
Australia 's Qantas Airways resumed limited superjumbo flights Saturday , with the take-off of a fully-loaded Airbus A380 from Singapore .
Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce joined the first leg of the flight to London via Singapore .
Joyce told reporters that he was 100 percent comfortable with the operation of the aircraft .
The airline grounded its six A380s after a superjumbo 's engine blew up midair on November 4 , forcing an emergency landing in Singapore .
Inspections showed problems with several of Qantas Airways ' Rolls Royce Trent 900 engines that required turbines to be replaced or modified .
Qantas is putting just two of its A380s back in service while modifications are made on engines on other aircraft .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says his country and the United States will send a team to Iraq to reassess the security situation there .
In a televised interview Sunday , Mr. Blair said the team will focus only on security .
He added that it was crucial to strengthen Iraqi security forces so that they can take over .
Meanwhile , Britain 's Telegraph newspaper reports London will announce this week that it is sending 650 additional troops to Iraq to boost security ahead of the January 30 elections .
Speaking on the television network ABC , U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell expressed concern about the future of Iraq following the elections , but said the vote is the necessary next step .
Pakistani officials say a U.S. missile strike in Pakistan 's tribal region Saturday killed two suspected militants .
Security officials said the strike targeted a house in the town of Mir Ali in North Waziristan .
The region is considered a base for Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents accused of attacking NATO troops across the border in Afghanistan .
U.S. President Barack Obama has increased the use of drone strikes to target hideouts in Pakistan , causing friction between Washington and Islamabad .
Pakistan 's government has objected to the attacks , saying they violate its sovereignty .
The United States will host a two-day international conference on the avian ( bird ) flu virus in Washington beginning Thursday .
U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack Wednesday said more than 65 countries and international organizations concerned about preventing a global bird flu pandemic will be participating .
He said U.S. officials leading the meeting will focus on a set of core principles regarding the H5N1 virus unveiled by Washington at last month 's U.N. World Summit .
He said the program principles include quick and accurate reporting of outbreaks of the virus , donor support for countries affected by the disease and a pledge to work with the World Health Organization .
Many participants have already signed on to the U.S.-led program .
About 60 people have died after being exposed to birds with the virus .
Experts warn the virus could mutate into a form passed easily among humans and cause a global pandemic .
A top Israeli official says Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has approved the final placement of a barrier around Jerusalem that would encompass a controversial Jewish settlement on Palestinian-claimed land .
Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Israeli radio Mr. Sharon approved the plan late Sunday after meeting with top officials .
The enclosed Israeli area would include the largest Israeli settlement in the West Bank - Maaleh Adumim .
Israel says the wall will help keep out militants .
Palestinians say Israel has used the barrier issue as an excuse to grab land .
The approval comes as U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan meets with Israeli and Palestinian officials to encourage peace talks between the two sides .
Meanwhile , Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs are preparing for more talks on the Israeli handover of five West Bank towns to Palestinian security control .
Israel 's Supreme Court has ruled that Palestinian residents of the West Bank and Gaza can sue Israel for damages caused by the Israeli military in non-combat operations .
The court nullified a law passed by the Israeli parliament last year that granted the state immunity from all Palestinian damage lawsuits against the Israeli military .
Israel 's government applied the law retroactively to the start of the current Palestinian uprising in 2000 .
Several human rights groups petitioned the Supreme Court about the law , arguing Israel is responsible for the well-being of Palestinians as an occupying power .
The court partially agreed with the petition , but ruled that Palestinians can not sue for damages caused by Israeli forces during combat operations .
The judges also ruled that citizens of an enemy state and members of terrorist groups are not eligible for any compensation from Israel .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan calls Iraqi voters courageous , and says the world must support them .
Speaking in Nigeria , Mr. Annan described Sunday 's election as the first step in a democratic process in Iraq .
He said Iraqis know they are voting for their country 's future and for the day " when they will take their destiny in their own hands . "
The secretary-general also appealed for an end to election-day violence .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has criticized Syria for creating instability in Lebanon , where a second politician was killed Tuesday .
Ms. Rice said she does not know who is responsible for the attack that killed George Hawi in Beirut , but she called on Syria to end destabilizing activities there .
Ms. Rice spoke to reporters aboard a plane to Brussels , where she is to attend a conference aimed at gathering international support for Iraq 's new government .
The conference will also include Iraqi leaders , officials from more than 80 nations and United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
Monday , Ms. Rice visited Saudi Arabia for the last stop of a Middle East trip , where she renewed a call for democratic reform .
Tens of thousands of people rallied across Taiwan Sunday as political parties stepped up campaigning ahead of next Saturday 's parliamentary election .
In Taipei , supporters of the pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union , an ally of President Chen Shui-bian 's party , waved placards of their candidates and chanted independence slogans .
Nearby , thousands of backers of the opposition Nationalists marched for improved ties with mainland China .
President Chen is hoping to achieve a majority in the 225-seat legislature so he can push though what he calls needed constitutional reforms .
The Nationalist Party and its coalition partner , the People First Party , currently hold a slim majority .
Beijing has denounced the planned constitutional amendments , saying they are a pretext for declaring formal independence , an act China says will trigger a war .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says a U.S. Navy attache accused of spying has been ordered out of the country .
Mr. Chavez said Thursday that naval Captain John Correa must leave Venezuela immediately .
Correa has been named in connection with accusations that several Venezuelan military officers had passed information to the U.S. military through the U.S. embassy in Caracas .
Mr. Chavez on Monday accused U.S. officers at the embassy of spying .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel said last week that several low-level Venezuelan officers had been caught passing information to the U.S. military .
U.S. State Department spokesman , Adam Ereli would not comment specifically on the charges of espionage .
But in remarks earlier this week , the official said the United States has had good relations with the Venezuelan military in the past and hopes that can continue .
Burma has reported an outbreak of bird flu among chickens in the country 's eastern Shan state .
The official " New Light of Myanmar " newspaper said Saturday that authorities confirmed the outbreak of the deadly H5N1 virus on Thursday , after an unspecified number of chickens had died in Yankham village .
Officials said they determined that the virus was spread to the area from Kengtung Township , where bird flu broke out in December 18 .
Burma and the World Health Organization had earlier confirmed the country 's first human bird flu case , when a seven-year-old girl was hospitalized in late November .
The girl survived the disease and was discharged in early December .
Seven countries in East Asia have reported human cases of the potentially deadly virus .
The two with the greatest number of cases are Indonesia and Vietnam .
More than 200 people in 13 countries have died from the disease since 2003 .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved a new treatment for late-stage cervical cancer .
The treatment is a combination of the drugs Hycamtin and Cisplatin , and is approved for women with incurable , recurrent or persistent cancer of the cervix that has spread to other organs .
The combination is the first time a treatment has been recommended for late-stage cervical cancer .
The FDA originally approved Hycamtin in 1996 for treating ovarian cancer and in 1998 for small-cell lung cancer .
FDA officials say the drug therapy is not a cure , but a potentially life-prolonging option for thousands of women .
Earlier this month , the FDA approved the first vaccine to protect women and girls from contracting the disease .
Each year , about 10,000 new cases of cervical cancer are diagnosed in American women and there are 3,700 related deaths .
Some 300,000 women die of the disease each year worldwide .
Sudan has approved the deployment of 105 armored personnel carriers to aid African Union peacekeeping forces in the war-torn western region of Darfur .
The Sudanese decision follows recent rebel attacks on AU peacekeepers in Darfur .
In one of the attacks , five AU soldiers and civilian personnel were killed when rebels with the Sudan Liberation Movement ambushed a convoy .
Separately , a faction of the rebel Justice and Equality Movement abducted and held hostage 38 AU personnel .
They were later released .
The Canadian-donated armored personnel vehicles are expected to begin arriving on Friday .
Ongoing violence in Darfur has forced aid agencies to evacuate relief workers .
Some 7,000 AU peacekeepers are in Darfur , where fighting between rebels and government-backed Arab militia has killed tens of thousands of people over the past two years .
More than two million others have been driven from their homes .
Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader says his government will take every measure to bring to justice those responsible for the Monday night attack on a leading investigative journalist .
The Croatian news agency Hina says Mr. Sanader made his comments as he met in Zagreb with leaders of Croatia 's Journalists Association after the attack on Dusan Miljus , a reporter for the Jutarnji List daily .
Miljus is known for his reports on organized crime activities
The journalist suffered a concussion and broken arm when masked attackers assaulted him with baseball bats in front of his Zagreb home .
The incident followed a series of death threats against Miljus .
Organized crime groups in Croatia have repeatedly targeted journalists who had probed their activities .
The Anheuser-Busch brewing company - bottler of Budweiser beer - will continue to sponsor the FIFA World Cup tournament through 2014 .
Anheuser-Busch and the International Football Federation signed a contract extension agreement Thursday , meaning Budweiser also will have global sponsorship rights for the Confederations Cup tournament in 2009 and 2013 .
FIFA President Sepp Blatter said the agreement is testimony to the immense appeal of football .
A spokesman for Anheuser-Busch said the deal will allow the company to connect its brand with millions of adult beer drinkers and football fans .
Anheuser-Busch , based in St. Louis , Missouri the United States , has the exclusive beer contract for this year 's World Cup in Germany .
By 2014 , the brewer will have sponsored eight World Cup tournaments .
Islamic militants have fired volleys of Katyusha-type rockets in response to a Lebanese army bombardment of their positions inside a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
The army says the rockets caused some damage but no casualties several kilometers away from the refugee camp .
Lebanese artillery and tanks continued to pound Fatah al-Islam militants inside the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp near the city of Tripoli .
At least 10 soldiers have died in fighting since Thursday when the army began an artillery barrage on the camp .
Last month , Lebanese officials claimed victory in the fighting , but daily firefights have continued since then .
More than 170 people , including more than 90 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
Nearly all of the Palestinian refugees living in the camp have fled .
Britain has requested the extradition of a man arrested in Pakistan in the alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners over the Atlantic .
A Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokeswoman says Monday authorities are considering the request for extradition of Rashid Rauf .
She said he was being investigated for possible links to the al-Qaida terrorist network .
British authorities have identified Rauf , a British citizen of Pakistani descent , as a key suspect in the bombing plot .
British authorities arrested more than two dozen suspects earlier this month in connection with the plot , which prosecutors said was in an advanced stage of planning .
Authorities said plotters sought to bomb as many as 10 airliners .
Last week , British prosecutors said they had seized bomb-making materials , suicide notes and martyrdom videos in the probe .
Authorities also referred to data from 400 computers and 20 cell phones .
Preparations for the inauguration of Barack Obama as the next president have been going on for weeks in Washington .
The viewing stands at the Capitol have been constructed , the parade route is being readied , and people in the city are in a mood of anticipation .
Here 's a look at those preparations and what people are talking about now that Inauguration Day , January 20 , is near .
For more , click on video link .
The U.S. military has announced charges against eight service members in connection with the death of an Iraqi civilian .
Marine Colonel Stewart Navarre said Wednesday the eight face charges including kidnapping , murder and conspiracy .
The seven Marines and a Navy corpsman are suspected of killing an Iraqi man without provocation in the village of Hamdania in April .
They have been held since May at Camp Pendleton , California .
Four other Marines not being held remain under investigation .
The investigation is separate from the probe of the events of Haditha in November 2005 , in which Marines are alleged to have killed 24 Iraqi civilians after a roadside bomb blast in the town killed a fellow Marine .
Elephants in tsunami-devastated Thailand have joined the country 's massive recovery work , one week after another group of elephants staged a dramatic rescue operation .
Thai officials say six jumbo elephants are now helping to tow heavy objects and pull away debris that heavy machinery can not reach .
Elephants also played a crucial role before the tsunami hit .
Reuters news agency says eight elephants used for tourist rides at the Khao Lak beach resort became agitated last Sunday , more than an hour before the tsunami came ashore .
The beasts began crying , or " trumpeting , " and finally broke free of their chains , heading for a nearby hill .
Their trainers followed .
As the elephants fled , they lifted tourists onto their backs with their trunks , taking them to safety .
Scientists note animals often appear to sense the coming of natural calamities .
In Lebanon , hundreds of thousands of Shi'ite Muslims marched through southern Beirut Thursday to commemorate the death of a revered leader and to protest cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
The march is an annual event to mark Ashura , when Shi'ites mourn the death of the prophet 's grandson , Imam Hussain , more than 1,300 years ago .
Shi'ite mourners dressed in black chanted slogans of allegiance to the Prophet Muhammad , and carried placards denouncing cartoon depictions of him .
There were no reports of violence .
Less than a week ago , a Beirut protest against publication of the cartoons in Denmark and other European countries turned into a rampage that left the Danish embassy in flames and dozens injured .
President Bush and Jordan 's King Abdullah have called on foreign governments to end the deadly rioting that has spread across the Muslim world after the cartoons .
A U.S. court has sentenced a former CIA contractor to more than eight years in prison for assaulting an Afghan prisoner who later died .
The court in North Carolina sentenced David Passaro Tuesday to eight years and four months in jail for the assault of Afghan detainee Abdul Wali in 2003 .
Prosecutors accused Passaro of beating the detainee during an interrogation at a U.S. military base in Afghanistan .
Wali died of his injuries two days after the incident .
U.S. officials said Wali was a suspect in frequent rocket attacks on the base .
Passaro is the first U.S. civilian to be charged with abusing a detainee during the U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Serbia 's special war crimes prosecutor has announced the indictment of another suspect in the 1991 massacre of more than 200 Croat civilians outside the Croatian city of Vukovar .
Authorities arrested Sasa Radak last month in Montenegro .
He joins 17 other suspects on trial before a special court in connection with the deaths at the Ovcara pig farm outside Vukovar .
Prosecutors say Yugoslav troops took the 200 patients from Vukovar hospital after capturing the Croatian city in November 1991 .
They say the bodies were later discovered at the farm .
The Hague war crimes tribunal has indicted three Yugoslav army officers for their role in the deaths .
Tribunal prosecutors have now suggested that their cases be transferred to local courts either in Croatia or Serbia .
A U.S. military investigation has concluded that a suicide bomber wearing an Iraqi uniform carried out the deadly attack in a dining tent at an American base in Mosul last December , killing 22 people .
Major General David Rodriguez Friday said the bomber apparently entered the base at an unguarded point on its perimeter .
He said investigators did not know if the attacker was a member of the Iraqi security forces , or was wearing a stolen or counterfeit uniform .
General Rodriguez said the bomber was believed to be a member of the Ansar al-Sunna terrorist group , which claimed responsibility for the December 21 attack - the deadliest on U.S. forces since the U.S.-led invasion in March , 2003 .
The group has also claimed responsibility for several other large profile attacks , including this month 's roadside bombing south of Haditha that killed 14 U.S. Marines .
A court in London has remanded into custody a man charged with attempting to bomb the London transport system in July .
Ethiopian-born Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussain , made his first court appearance Friday , a day after being extradited to Britain from Italy .
His next court date is December 8 .
Hamdi Issac was arrested immediately after his arrival in Britain Thursday .
He is facing charges including attempted murder and illegal possession of explosives .
Italian police arrested the British citizen in Rome a week after the failed July 21 attacks in London .
Those attacks caused no fatalities but brought chaos to London two weeks after suicide bombers killed 52 people in the British capital .
Hamdi Issac has admitted taking part in the second set of attacks but has said the action was meant to scare people , not kill them .
The U.S. trade deficit surged to an all-time record high of nearly $ 726 billion in 2005 .
That is a nearly 18 percent increase over the previous year and the fourth consecutive year the gap has hit a record .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department also says the trade deficit with China was the largest with any U.S. trading partner , rising sharply to a record yearly total of nearly $ 202 billion .
The politically sensitive China trade issue has prompted some members of the U.S. Congress to accuse Beijing of keeping the value of its currency artificially low , giving its exports a price advantage on world markets .
India 's Health Ministry has cast doubt on a study by an environmental group that showed that soft drinks produced locally by two U.S. giants PepsiCo and Coca-Cola contained high levels of pesticides .
A committee appointed by the ministry said the residue data reported by the New Delhi-based Center for Science and Environment , or CSE , failed to prove its claims .
It also said the group 's sampling methods lacked a scientific and statistically valid basis .
The CSE has slammed the committee 's findings , saying it should not rely on data provided by the two companies .
The study by the CSE sparked an uproar and triggered a ban in six Indian states on the sale of beverages locally produced by the two companies .
PepsiCo and Coca-Cola say their soft drinks manufactured in India comply with stringent international and national standards .
Slovenia 's Katarina Srebotnik has overcome a leg injury to win both the singles and doubles titles at the ASB Classic women 's tennis tournament in Auckland , New Zealand .
Srebotnik received treatment for a thigh injury to beat fourth-seeded Japanese player Shinboue Asagoe in the final in three sets , 5-7 , 7-5 , 6-4 .
Earlier , the Slovene player took two and a half hours to beat fifth seed Marion Bartoli of France in the semifinals , 7-5 , 2-6 , 7-5 .
Srebotnik later teamed with Asagoe to take the tournament doubles title over Leanne Baker of New Zealand and Francesca Lubiani of Italy , 6-3 , 6-3 .
The win was Srebotnik 's seventh doubles title on the WTA tour .
The singles title was Srebotnik 's third in five years .
The 23-year-old Slovene came into the tournament ranked 87th in the world .
Last minute holiday shoppers are taking advantage of massive discounts as retailers launch a last desperate attempt to generate revenue .
With holiday sales shaping up to be the weakest in years , retailers are scrambling to stay ahead of the struggling U.S. economy .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out a series of attacks Sunday , killing two American soldiers and at least five Iraqis .
U.S. officials said the two Americans were killed by bombs in the Iraqi capital .
South of Baghdad , a mortar attack killed two Iraqis , and gunmen killed a policeman in Mosul .
Two civilians died in separate incidents in the northern city of Kirkuk .
Meanwhile , demonstrations were held in several Iraqi cities by Sunni Arabs , who have complained of fraud in the recent parliamentary vote .
Shi'ite Arabs in Baghdad also marched Sunday to show support for Shi'ite candidates .
Initial results showed a key Shi'ite coalition was leading the vote .
In northern Iraq , Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani said Iraq 's new government should include all of Iraq 's religious and ethnic groups .
India and South America 's Mercosur trading bloc have signed an agreement slashing tariffs on more than 900 products in a trade boosting measure .
Under the agreement signed Saturday , India is cutting or eliminating tariffs on 450 products while the South American trading bloc is taking similar action on 452 products .
Trade between India and Mercosur reached $ 1.5 billion last year .
Mercosur comprises Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay .
Chile and Bolivia are associate members of the bloc .
India 's main exports to Mercosur nations included pharmaceutical and chemical products .
Imports included edible oils and non-electrical machinery .
The United Nations says Iran has refused to allow nuclear inspectors to revisit a suspect military site .
In a report to the International Atomic Energy Agency Friday in Vienna , inspectors say Iran recently refused to grant them access to its Parchin military base , where Washington says Tehran is simulating atomic weapons tests .
Deputy Director General for Safeguards Pierre Goldschmidt said Iranian officials claimed the previous visit in January had fulfilled inspectors ' demands .
He said the country also had delayed reporting an extensive tunnel system under construction beneath a uranium conversion plant in the central city of Isfahan .
Mr. Goldschmidt also said Iran continues to build a heavy water reactor which can produce plutonium , despite requests to cease construction .
Iran 's representative at the IAEA meeting said Tehran intends to keep producing nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes .
The US military says one US soldier and an Afghan interpreter have been killed in a gunfight in southern Afghanistan , as the war-ravaged country continues its bloody countdown to parliamentary polls .
A military statement says they were moving into position for a daylight offensive operation south of Dai Chopan in Zabul province when the gun battle occurred .
U.S. and Afghan government forces have mounted a series of operations in the south and east in recent months , aimed at flushing out militants and ensuring security for September 18th parliamentary elections .
The U.S. military said two Taleban were later killed in the attack including one identified as a sub-commander .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban confirmed the local-level commander , known as Tor Mullah Abdul Manan , had been killed in a battle in the restive Zabul province .
Former Venezuelan President Rafael Caldera died early Thursday at the age of 93 .
He had suffered from Parkinson 's disease for many years .
Mr. Caldera served two terms as president - the first between 1969 and 1974 , and again from 1994 to 1999 .
He entered politics in the 1930s , and helped to found the Social-Christian Copei party in 1946 .
In 1994 , he pardoned current President Hugo Chavez , who was in prison at the time for leading a coup two years earlier .
Mr. Chavez succeeded Mr. Caldera as president in 1999 .
Mr. Caldera 's son said the funeral will take place Saturday and that the family " will not accept any homage from the government of Hugo Chavez . "
A U.S.-funded radio station says its correspondent in Iraq has been killed .
Radio Free Iraq said Friday Khamail Khalaf was found dead in Baghdad Thursday .
She had been missing for two days amid fears she had been kidnapped .
More than 150 members of the news media have been killed in Iraq since the war began in 2003 .
U.S. military officials in Iraq have reduced the death toll from a suicide bombing Friday from 27 to 12 .
Police said a suicide bomber driving a truck with chlorine gas detonated his vehicle in Ramadi , the capital of volatile al-Anbar province .
A military statement says 43 people were wounded .
The military also says the Iraqi army called in air strikes Saturday against armed militia men in Diwaniyah , south of Baghdad , one day after U.S. and Iraqi forces detained 27 suspects and killed three insurgents in the city .
A U.S. military court has sentenced an Army sergeant to death for murdering two of his comrades and wounding 14 others in a grenade and rifle attack two years ago in Kuwait .
The 15-member military jury in Fort Bragg , in the U.S. state of North Carolina ruled Thursday Sergeant Hasan Akbar , a member of the Army 's 101st Airborne Division , should be executed for ambushing the troops as they slept in tents at the start of the Iraq war .
His death sentence will be automatically appealed .
If Akbar is put to death , it would be by lethal injection .
His military lawyers claimed that constant ridicule over his being a black Muslim caused him to snap , triggering the attack .
The NATO-led international force in Afghanistan is preparing to build a helipad near the site of last week 's crash of an Afghan airliner that killed all 104 people onboard .
A spokesman says the aim is to speed up the investigation and the recovery of bodies from the crash site , which is at an altitude of nearly 3,000 meters on a mountain near Kabul .
Bad weather so far has hampered efforts to search for the black box and retrieve bodies from the wreckage .
The Boeing 737 , operated by private Afghan airline Kam Air , vanished from the radar screen last Thursday as it was approaching Kabul airport during a blizzard .
The French News Agency , AFP , says the United Nations has grounded another Boeing 737 hired from Kam Air .
European Union lawmakers have rejected a controversial budget deal reached at an EU summit last month and have called for further talks on the issue .
At a plenary session Wednesday in Strasbourg , France , the European Parliament voted overwhelmingly , 541 to 76 against the $ 1 trillion EU budget for 2007 - 2013 .
Lawmakers critical of the deal said it fell short of the budget proposed by the European Parliament last June .
Austria 's Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , said there is room to maneuver so a compromise can be reached .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair , who presided over last month 's EU summit , had called the proposed budget a fair deal .
Some of the lawmakers insisted the budget does not provide sufficient aid for EU members .
Israeli troops have killed two Palestinian gunmen who attacked a border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Israel .
Israeli army officials say the gunmen infiltrated into Israel early Thursday through the Erez border crossing and threw hand grenades at the checkpoint before being killed .
The Popular Resistance Committees and Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades claimed joint responsibility for the attack .
The Erez checkpoint is the main crossing for thousands of Palestinian workers with jobs in Israel .
Israel routinely closes the crossing after violent incidents .
Separately , the Palestinian militant group Hamas has warned Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas not to make changes to the government without its approval .
In Cairo , Hamas political leader Khaled Mashaal also vowed that the militant group , which swept parliamentary elections last month , will not renounce violence against Israel .
Azerbaijan 's high economic growth during 2006 - 08 was attributable to large and growing oil exports , but some non-export sectors also featured double-digit growth , spurred by growth in the construction , banking , and real estate sectors .
In 2009 , economic growth remained above 9 % even as oil prices moderated and growth in the construction sector cooled .
In 2010 , economic growth slowed to 3.7 % , although the impact of the global financial crisis was less severe than in many other countries in the region .
The current global economic slowdown presents some challenges for the Azerbaijani economy as oil prices remain below their mid-2008 highs , highlighting Azerbaijan 's reliance on energy exports and lackluster attempts to diversify its economy .
Azerbaijan 's oil production increased dramatically in 1997 , when Azerbaijan signed the first production-sharing arrangement ( PSA ) with the Azerbaijan International Operating Company .
Oil exports through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline remain the main economic driver while efforts to boost Azerbaijan 's gas production are underway .
However , Azerbaijan has made only limited progress on instituting market-based economic reforms .
Pervasive public and private sector corruption and structural economic inefficiencies remain a drag on long-term growth , particularly in non-energy sectors .
Several other obstacles impede Azerbaijan 's economic progress : the need for stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector and the continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region .
Trade with Russia and the other former Soviet republics is declining in importance , while trade is building with Turkey and the nations of Europe .
Long-term prospects will depend on world oil prices , the location of new oil and gas pipelines in the region , and Azerbaijan 's ability to manage its energy wealth to promote sustainable growth in non-energy sectors of the economy and spur employment .
Private donations to help victims of the Asian tsunami are soaring in Europe , rivaling and in some cases exceeding government contributions .
In Sweden , a series of telethons Saturday pushed private donations above the $ 60-million mark .
Relief agencies called it a record for the nation , which may have lost more citizens in the disaster than any other in Europe .
The British public had contributed about $ 115 million by Saturday - nearly $ 20 million more than its government .
Private donations in Germany were running above $ 40 million - more than the German government has pledged so far .
An aid official told the French news agency , AFP , it was one of the largest donations of its type in Germany .
US Government assistance is the mainstay of this tiny island economy .
The Marshall Islands received more than $ 1 billion in aid from the US from 1986 - 2002 .
Agricultural production , primarily subsistence , is concentrated on small farms ; the most important commercial crops are coconuts and breadfruit .
Small-scale industry is limited to handicrafts , tuna processing , and copra .
The tourist industry , now a small source of foreign exchange employing less than 10 % of the labor force , remains the best hope for future added income .
The islands have few natural resources , and imports far exceed exports .
Under the terms of the Amended Compact of Free Association , the US will provide millions of dollars per year to the Marshall Islands ( RMI ) through 2023 , at which time a Trust Fund made up of US and RMI contributions will begin perpetual annual payouts .
Government downsizing , drought , a drop in construction , the decline in tourism , and less income from the renewal of fishing vessel licenses have held GDP growth to an average of 1 % over the past decade .
Former Cuban president Fidel Castro has appeared at a special session of parliament for the first time since 2006 , when he ceded power to his younger brother , Raul .
Cheering legislators gave the elder Castro a standing ovation as he entered the legislative chamber in an event broadcast on Cuban television Saturday .
The 83-year-old former president was wearing an olive-green military style shirt and waved to the crowd .
Mr. Castro spoke about the international situation and how growing tensions between the United States and Iran could lead to nuclear war .
Mr. Castro turns 84 later this month , and has recently increased his public appearances following a long period of seclusion , resulting from an illness suffered in 2006 .
Fidel Castro underwent intestinal surgery that year and turned over power on a provisional basis to his brother , who formally assumed the presidency in February 2008 .
The Israeli military says its forces have killed two Palestinian militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
The military said Thursday that Israeli aircraft and tanks fired at the militants near a border fence .
It said Israeli soldiers later recovered the bodies of two armed men in the area .
The military identified the men as members of the Islamic Jihad organization .
No Palestinian militant groups have commented on the incident .
Pope John Paul has called for better integration among peoples as the Roman Catholic Church marks the World Day of Migrants and Refugees .
In remarks at the Vatican Sunday , the pontiff said better integration among peoples requires a fair balance between the affirmation of one 's own identity and recognition of that of others .
The 84-year-old pope greeted all migrants and said he wishes that sympathy and understanding among cultures can grow through dialogue .
U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery , the final resting place of his slain brothers - President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert Kennedy .
More than 300,000 people , including veterans from all the nation 's wars , two former presidents , prominent explorers and other historical figures , are buried at the cemetery , located just a short distance from Washington D.C.
At the site of President Kennedy 's grave is the eternal flame where three other Kennedys are buried : the president 's wife Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis , their infant son and a stillborn daughter .
Robert Kennedy is buried nearby .
Prior to be being laid to rest , Edward Kennedy will lie in repose at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston .
A funeral will take place at Boston 's Our Lady of Perpetual Help Basilica .
Mexican authorities say huge mudslides , flooding and torrential rains from Hurricane Stan 's recent onslaught have killed at least 130 people in Central America and Mexico .
Stan came ashore along Mexico 's Gulf Coast on Tuesday , knocking down trees and ripping the roofs off houses with winds of 130 kilometers per hour .
Rivers also burst their banks in southern Mexico , washing away bridges and ripping apart houses and buildings .
Additionally , Stan has been blamed for at least 50 deaths in both El Salvador and Guatemala , where mudslides buried houses .
Forecasters say the storm is now a tropical depression and dissipating over the mountains of southeastern Mexico , but they warn it is still capable of producing additional heavy rains and flooding .
A prominent human rights group has called on the United Nations and the Democratic Republic of Congo to disarm rebel Rwandan armed groups in eastern Congo .
In a report Wednesday , the New York-based Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) also said that the safety of civilians must be ensured during the operations .
The rights group said efforts to disarm the rebels , mostly ethnic Hutus , in early November failed after they refused to cooperate .
The rebels , generally called Ex-FAR ( members of the former Rwandan army ) and Interahamwe , are mostly responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed about 800,000 people during a three-month period .
Human Rights Watch 's senior Africa advisor , Alison Des Forges , says disarming Rwandan rebel groups is crucial for regional stability .
Rwanda has threatened to go after the rebels if they are not disarmed .
Australia says it will investigate a botched military operation in Afghanistan in 2002 that killed 11 civilians .
The Australian / New Zealand edition of Time magazine says the incident was sparked when Australian soldiers on a U.S.-led patrol shot and killed two villagers they mistakenly believed were Afghan militants .
Other tribesmen began shooting , and a rival tribe which thought it was being attacked also opened fire .
The patrol called for support , and U.S. warplanes were sent to bomb the area .
Sixteen other civilians were also wounded in the fighting .
The magazine says one of the Australian soldiers removed a turban and a gun from one of the civilians killed in the firefight .
Rwandan police have arrested a journalist accused of comparing President Paul Kagame to Nazi Germany 's leader Adolf Hitler .
Saidati Mukakibibi is the second journalist from the independent newspaper Umurabyo arrested in the past week .
The Reuters news agency quotes a police spokesman as saying Mukakibibi wrote articles comparing the president with Hitler .
He said the articles were accompanied by a photo of Mr. Kagame in front of a Nazi swastika that the publishers had inserted in the picture .
Last week , authorities arrested Umurabyo editor Agnes Uwimana on allegations of civil disobedience .
Rights groups say the arrests are an attempt by the Rwandan government to clamp down on independent media ahead of next month 's elections .
The government denies the allegations .
Burma 's largest opposition party is marking the 15th anniversary of its landslide election victory , which the military government never recognized .
National League for Democracy party officials invited diplomats and journalists to Friday 's commemoration in Rangoon .
However , NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi is not able to attend the ceremony .
The Nobel Laureate has been under house arrest for two years following a violent ambush by a pro-junta mob .
Her party won 392 of 485 seats in the 1990 election .
But the military junta refused to recognize the balloting , which was widely seen as free and fair .
The government instead clamped down on opposition parties and began jailing opposition leaders .
On Wednesday , the human rights group Amnesty International slammed Burma 's human rights record , saying more than 1,300 political prisoners were wrongly detained last year .
A new museum opened Friday in Washington on crime and law enforcement , mostly in the United States .
The museum is owned and financed by an entrepreneur and it charges a fee for entry .
Visitors are invited to pick up a rifle in a Wild West shootout , plan a prison break and test their knowledge of infamous murderers .
VOA 's Deborah Block was there .
Police in Lebanon and Germany have detained two more suspects in connection with last month 's failed terrorist plot to blow up two German passenger trains .
Lebanese officials Friday detained a man identified only by the initials HKD .
They said they based their action on information provided by Jihad Hamad , a suspect who earlier turned himself in to Lebanese authorities .
Also Friday , German officials captured a suspect in the southern city of Konstanz .
Authorities say the unidentified man has links to Youssef Mohamad el Hajdib , who was detained last Saturday in the northern German city of Kiel .
Authorities say video surveillance cameras caught two of the suspects arrested in Germany boarding trains in Cologne on July 31 and carrying suitcases packed with homemade bombs .
The bombs were placed on trains bound for the cities of Dortmund and Koblenz , but failed to explode .
Former Liberian Finance Minister Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has moved closer to becoming Africa 's first democratically-elected female president , taking a strong lead in Liberia 's presidential run-off .
With nearly two-thirds of the ballots counted , Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf leads with 56 percent of the votes .
Her opponent , millionaire former soccer ( football ) star George Weah , has 44 percent .
Mr. Weah raised allegations of election fraud Wednesday , saying there were major irregularities during Tuesday 's run-off election .
Election officials said Mr. Weah has not submitted any evidence to the electoral commission to support his claims .
This was Liberia 's first election since 2003 , when Charles Taylor stepped down as president under international pressure , ending 14 years of almost non-stop civil war .
Former Israeli President Moshe Katsav has been indicted on charges of rape and other sexual offenses .
The indictment filed Thursday in a Tel Aviv court accused Mr. Katsav of raping a woman who once worked for him , in addition to sexual harassment charges involving two other former female employees .
The indictment said the women worked for Mr. Katsav while he was Israel 's Tourism Minister in the 1990s , and president earlier this decade .
Mr. Katsav resigned shortly before his term ended in 2007 at the end of his presidential term , under a plea bargain that would have required him to admit to lesser charges of sexual misconduct .
He withdrew from the agreement last April and so he could stand trial in hopes of clearing his name .
He has vigorously denied the charges facing him .
U.S. stock market indexes dropped sharply as Friday 's trading got underway .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 1.3 percent , the S & P 500 lost 1.7 percent , while the NASDAQ fell 2.1 percent .
European stock markets were higher in afternoon trading .
London 's Financial Times 100 index gained 2.5 percent , the CAC-40 in Paris rose 1.7 percent , while the DAX in Frankfurt jumped 2.8 percent .
In Asia , Tokyo 's Nikkei index advanced 2.7 percent ( 224 points ) to end at 8,462 .
In Hong Kong , the Hang Seng moved up 2.4 percent ( 321 points ) to finish at 13,543 .
The price of gold rose more than $ 9 to trade at $ 745.71 an ounce .
The dollar was down against the yen but gained compared to the euro .
Chinese President Hu Jintao called for progress in six party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program during a meeting with his South Korean counterpart Saturday .
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak met with the Chinese leader in Beijing while attending the Olympics .
Mr. Hu said he hoped for improved communication and coordination among the countries involved in the six party talks ( among China , South Korea , Japan , Russia , the United States and North Korea ) aimed at dismantling North Korea 's nuclear program ) .
And he urged moving the talks to what he called " a new stage . "
The two leaders also discussed developing a " strategic partnership " between China and South Korea .
Mr. Hu is scheduled to make a state visit to South Korea in the coming weeks .
Palestinian militants fired two rockets into southern Israel late Tuesday , following Israeli airstrikes near the Gaza Strip 's border with Egypt .
Israeli military officials say no one was hurt in the rocket attack .
Earlier on Tuesday , Israeli aircraft bombed at least six smuggling tunnels near the southern Gaza town of Rafah .
Israeli military officials say one of the airstrikes triggered a secondary explosion , indicating that explosives were present in the tunnel .
At least four people were reported wounded in the strikes .
Israel launched a three-week offensive against the Palestinian militant group Hamas in Gaza in response to the rocket attacks .
Both Hamas and Israel declared separate cease-fires last month , but the violence continues almost daily .
In a city where most police do not carry guns , the shooting death of a suspect on a crowded London subway has resonated much further than the underground station where the incident occurred .
Across the British capital Saturday , residents learned more about the suspect police officers chased onto a subway car Friday and shot to death five times at point-blank range .
In a statement , London police said the man was not connected to Thursday 's attempted bombings on the British capital 's transit system , and called the killing ' regrettable ' and a ' tragedy . '
Experts say the shooting death raises questions about police firearm practices and deepens the anxiety of a city that increasingly feels under siege .
A series of explosions shook the Iraqi capital Wednesday , while a high-ranking U.S. official visited the country .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick visited the former insurgent stronghold of Fallujah .
He was scheduled to also meet in Baghdad with Iraq 's new interim president and prime minister .
Meanwhile , near Kirkuk , nine policemen were killed while trying to defuse a bomb .
In Baghdad , a string of explosions killed five Iraqis and injured eight other people , including four U.S. contractors .
Also , the U.S. military announced today that an American soldier was killed Tuesday in Ramadi during combat operations .
And al-Jazeera television has aired a video it says shows an American contractor who was abducted Monday near Baghdad .
The video showed the man urging U.S. officials to open a dialogue with insurgents in order to save his life .
The White House says it is in contact with the hostage 's family .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has again defended his country 's right to develop nuclear energy .
At a news conference during a visit to Algeria , Ahmadinejad Tuesday denounced nations for trying to isolate his country over its nuclear program .
The United States and its allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran denies the charge , saying its program is aimed at producing energy .
On Monday , U.S. President George W. Bush said the Ahmadinejad government is " a big disappointment " and is causing the Iranian people to be further isolated .
Iran has rejected U.N. Security Council resolutions requiring it to stop enriching uranium .
However , Iran recently agreed to allow U.N. atomic energy agency inspectors to view a sensitive nuclear facility to help resolve questions about its nuclear plans .
A U.N team arrived in Iran this week to develop a plan for future inspections .
The cuts announced Thursday would reduce the bankrupt airline 's workforce by 17 percent and help Delta save $ 3 billion .
Delta is also cutting wages , starting with a 25 percent reduction for company chief executive Gerald Grinstein .
Lower ranking employees face smaller cuts .
Delta is also cutting scores of aircraft from its fleet , and shifting some other flights from highly-competitive domestic routes to more-profitable overseas destinations .
The job cuts come atop 24,000 layoffs that have slashed Delta 's workforce since the 2001 terror attacks that hurt business for major airlines .
They have been battling strong competition from budget-price carriers and soaring fuel prices ever since .
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and carefully provided for , while he himself had scarcely enough to eat and not even that without hard work .
But when war broke out , a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse , and riding him to the charge , rushed into the very midst of the enemy .
The Horse was wounded and fell dead on the battlefield .
Then the Ass , seeing all these things , changed his mind , and commiserated the Horse .
The Taino - indigenous inhabitants of Hispaniola prior to the arrival of the Europeans - divided the island into five chiefdoms and territories .
Christopher COLUMBUS explored and claimed the island on his first voyage in 1492 ; it became a springboard for Spanish conquest of the Caribbean and the American mainland .
In 1697 , Spain recognized French dominion over the western third of the island , which in 1804 became Haiti .
The remainder of the island , by then known as Santo Domingo , sought to gain its own independence in 1821 but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians for 22 years ; it finally attained independence as the Dominican Republic in 1844 .
In 1861 , the Dominicans voluntarily returned to the Spanish Empire , but two years later they launched a war that restored independence in 1865 .
A legacy of unsettled , mostly non-representative rule followed , capped by the dictatorship of Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930 - 61 .
Juan BOSCH was elected president in 1962 but was deposed in a military coup in 1963 .
In 1965 , the United States led an intervention in the midst of a civil war sparked by an uprising to restore BOSCH .
In 1966 , Joaquin BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an election to become president .
BALAGUER maintained a tight grip on power for most of the next 30 years when international reaction to flawed elections forced him to curtail his term in 1996 .
Since then , regular competitive elections have been held in which opposition candidates have won the presidency .
Former President ( 1996 - 2000 ) Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a new term in 2004 following a constitutional amendment allowing presidents to serve more than one term , and was since reelected to a second consecutive term .
The economy of Saint Kitts and Nevis is heavily dependent upon tourism revenues , which has replaced sugar , the traditional mainstay of the economy until the 1970s .
Following the 2005 harvest , the government closed the sugar industry after decades of losses of 3-4 % of GDP annually .
To compensate for employment losses , the government has embarked on a program to diversify the agricultural sector and to stimulate other sectors of the economy , such as tourism , export-oriented manufacturing , and offshore banking .
More than 200,000 tourists visited the islands in 2009 .
Like other tourist destinations in the Caribbean , St. Kitts and Nevis is vulnerable to damage from natural disasters and shifts in tourism demand .
The current government is constrained by one of the world 's highest public debt burdens equivalent to roughly 185 % of GDP , largely attributable to public enterprise losses .
Iraqi soldiers , prisoners and hospital patients have cast early ballots for parliamentary elections set to open to the general public on Thursday .
Officials have promised to implement tough security measures Thursday to guard against violence during the vote .
They include closing Iraq 's borders and restricting travel .
Authorities are also expected to extend curfews across the country Tuesday .
Polling stations were due to open today in 15 countries , including the United States , for voters living outside Iraq .
Meanwhile , officials in Iraq reported seven people were killed in attacks Monday .
Separate roadside bomb attacks killed one American soldier and two other people in the Iraqi capital .
And gunmen killed four Iraqis , including a police officer .
Cuba has decided to ban smoking in many public places beginning next month .
Officials say the smoking ban , which will start the first week of February , will apply to buses , theaters , sports arenas and indoor restaurants , except designated areas .
Cigarette machines will also be removed .
The French news agency , AFP , reports that under the new rules tobacco products will be sold only to people over 16 years of age .
There is currently no age minimum .
The news agency reports the government has taken the measures for health reasons and to respect the rights of non-smokers .
The U.S. government reported a one percent increase in retail sales for January .
Economists watch retail sales closely because consumer demand drives about two-thirds of U.S. economic activity .
According to the Commerce Department , this is the first sales increase in seven months .
But the economy remains troubled , as a separate Labor Department report showed the number of Americans continuing to collect unemployment rose for the fourth week in a row .
The total is now just over 4.8 million , which is a record-high .
The number of people signing up for unemployment benefits declined slightly - by 8000 to a total of 623,000 - last week .
That level is close to a 26-year high .
Police in Corpus Christi , Texas , have cleared Vice President Dick Cheney of any wrongdoing in the shooting of a fellow hunter last Saturday .
The sheriff of Kenedy County , Ramon Salinas said Thursday an investigation had determined that Cheney shot Texas lawyer Harry Whittington by accident .
The sheriff said no legal action was necessary , and the case was closed .
Cheney said Wednesday he accepted full responsibility for accidentally shooting Whittington , but defended his decision not to disclose the incident for nearly 24 hours .
The vice president said he wanted to wait to be sure that the information released was accurate .
President Bush said he is satisfied with the way Cheney handled the aftermath of a hunting accident .
Mr. Bush said Thursday he thought his vice president gave a " very strong " and " powerful explanation " of events .
Malawi 's Agriculture Minister Uladi Mussa says Africa is not prepared to fight bird flu .
Mussa told a 19-nation bird flu conference in Malawi Monday that the lack of knowledge among health officials is as dangerous as the lack of resources .
United Nations Food and Agriculture official Mazlan Jusoh said most African nations are free of bird flu for now , but says they must boost surveillance .
He said poverty and inadequate medical and veterinary services make Africa vulnerable .
The deadly H5N1 bird flu strain has been found in birds in five African nations ( Burkina Faso , Cameroon , Egypt , Niger , and Nigeria ) .
Meanwhile , Pakistan said Monday it killed more than 40,000 chickens after bird flu was found on several poultry farms near Islamabad .
Bird flu has killed 113 people worldwide since 2003 - mostly in Asia .
NATO says British Foreign Secretary David Miliband visited southern Afghanistan on Tuesday , where British forces are fighting Taliban militants .
A NATO statement issued Wednesday said Miliband met with commanders who oversee military operations in the southern province of Helmand , including the head of NATO forces in southern Afghanistan , Dutch commander Major General Mart de Kruif .
NATO says the men discussed British , U.S. and NATO roles in reconstruction , security and counter-narcotics operations , as well as the upcoming elections in Afghanistan .
The statement says Miliband also met with senior Afghan government officials during his fourth visit to to the country , but no further details were provided .
In other news , Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry says Afghan President Hamid Karzai is set to visit Islamabad for talks on Thursday .
Weather forecasters are advising residents in the southeastern United States to monitor a tropical storm off Florida 's east coast .
The National Weather Center says Tropical Storm Ophelia could dump eight centimeters of rain in parts of Florida and southeastern Georgia , with isolated maximum amounts up to 13 centimeters .
The storm , packing winds of near 95 kilometers per hour , is about 100 kilometers from Cape Canaveral , Florida .
The weather center says the system is stationary and not expected to move much Thursday .
Some strengthening is forecast .
A tropical storm warning is in effect for parts of Florida 's east coast .
Russia 's natural gas monopoly Gazprom has warned Ukraine against siphoning off gas intended for Europe .
Gazprom Deputy Chairman Alexander Medvedev said Sunday that Ukrainian officials had made threats to tap natural gas from a pipeline running through Ukrainian territory , if supplies intended for Ukraine are cut off .
The two sides have failed to resolve a dispute over Moscow 's demand that Ukraine pay more than quadruple the current price for gas imports from Russia .
Gazprom threatened to halt gas deliveries to Ukraine on January first unless Kiev agrees to its new pricing structure .
Gazprom held an exercise Friday simulating such a stoppage .
Ukraine says such a sharp increase would harm its economy .
Both sides say they may turn to an international arbitration court for help .
Popes in their secular role ruled portions of the Italian peninsula for more than a thousand years until the mid 19th century , when many of the Papal States were seized by the newly united Kingdom of Italy .
In 1870 , the pope 's holdings were further circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed .
Disputes between a series of " prisoner " popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three Lateran Treaties , which established the independent state of Vatican City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy .
In 1984 , a concordat between the Holy See and Italy modified certain of the earlier treaty provisions , including the primacy of Roman Catholicism as the Italian state religion .
Present concerns of the Holy See include religious freedom , international development , the environment , the Middle East , China , the decline of religion in Europe , terrorism , interreligious dialogue and reconciliation , and the application of church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization .
About 1 billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith .
The Nigerian government says five cabinet ministers have left their posts so that they can run for elected positions next year .
Government officials say the ministers of the interior , culture and tourism , commerce , sports and intergovernmental affairs have left their offices .
President Olusegun Obasanjo has submitted a list to parliament to replace the ministers .
The resignations are the latest government shifts in the run-up to next year 's general elections .
Two days ago , Mr. Obasanjo replaced three top military chiefs and his national security adviser .
The shuffle comes weeks after the defeat in parliament of a measure that would have allowed Mr. Obasanjo to run for a third term .
Iraqi insurgents have released two French journalists taken hostage last August .
In Paris , French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin announced the release to parliament Tuesday , a short while after the al-Jazeera television network first reported it .
The journalists , Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot , were kidnapped in August while heading south from Baghdad on the road to Najaf .
An insurgent group calling itself the Islamic Army of Iraq originally threatened to kill the two unless France lifted a ban on Islamic headscarves in public schools .
But earlier this week , French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier said he believed the two reporters were still alive and in good health .
The two reporters were kidnapped August 19 by an insurgent group calling itself the Islamic Army of Iraq .
Insurgents originally threatened to kill the hostages unless France lifted a ban on Islamic headscarves in public schools .
The U.S. military in Iraq has charged a former commander of a U.S. prison in Baghdad with several counts of wrongdoing , including unauthorized possession of classified information .
The military announced the charges against Lieutenant-Colonel William Steele in a statement issued Thursday .
One charge is of aiding the enemy by providing a unmonitored cell phone to detainees .
Steele is also accused of wrongfully providing special privileges to and maintaining an inappropriate relationship with an interpreter .
Earlier , a military spokeswoman Lt. Col. Josslyn Aberle said Steele was taken into custody a month ago , and is being held at a detention facility in Kuwait awaiting a hearing to determine whether he should face court-martial .
Steele was commander of Camp Cropper prison , which holds about 5,300 detainees near Baghdad international airport .
Former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein , who was executed in December , spent time in that facility during his three-year incarceration .
Police in Pakistan say gunmen opened fire on the car carrying the nation 's religious affairs minister , wounding him and killing his driver .
Authorities say minister Hamid Saeed Kazmi 's vehicle was attacked near his office in the capital , Islamabad , Wednesday .
Further details were not immediately confirmed .
U.S. President-elect Barack Obama is encouraging Americans to come together to help renew the U.S. economy and " make a new beginning " for the country .
During his weekly radio address released early Thursday for Thanksgiving , Mr. Obama reminded U.S. citizens that this year 's holiday comes at a difficult time .
He said that his newly announced economic team is working hard to confront an economic crisis of historic proportions .
But the president-elect said policies alone will not revive the U.S. economy .
He said it also will take " the hard work , innovation , service and strength of the American people . "
Mr. Obama thanked members of the armed forces and their families for their service and sacrifice .
The president-elect is spending the holiday in Chicago , Illinois , with his wife , Michelle , and their daughters .
The Indian foreign ministry says India and Pakistan will hold the first meeting of a joint anti-terrorism panel in March .
The talks will be held in Pakistan 's capital , Islamabad , on March 6 .
The idea for the panel was first proposed last year during a meeting in Cuba between Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
The initiative was created after deadly train bombings in Mumbai in July .
India claimed Pakistan 's top intelligence agency ( ISI ) played a role in the attack , a charged denied by Pakistan .
Efforts to improve relations between India and Pakistan began with a peace process in 2004 .
The two countries have fought three wars and have yet to resolve their dispute over the region of Kashmir , where an anti-India insurgency has killed tens of thousands since 1989 .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates is in Pakistan to discuss counter-terrorism efforts and the Taleban insurgency in neighboring Afghanistan .
Gates arrived in the capital , Islamabad , Monday to meet with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
Washington has been putting pressure on General Musharraf to stop Taleban fighters from crossing into Afghanistan .
Gates just finished four days of meetings in Spain and Germany focused largely on the war in Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's foreign minister , Khursheed Kasuri , recently said the government has decided against mining its border with Afghanistan , but still intends to build a fence along parts of it .
On Sunday , the governor of southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province said 700 foreign fighters , including Pakistanis , are in the region to help Taleban insurgents .
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe named an electoral commission to run parliamentary elections expected in March .
The main opposition , Movement for Democratic Change said it had no confidence in the commission .
Justice minister Patrick Chinamasa announced that Mr. Mugabe appointed a 5-member body under the chairmanship of High Court Judge , George Chiweshe , who was appointed by President Robert Mugabe , leader of Zimbabwe 's ruling Zanu-PF party .
Judge Chiweshe made legal history in 2002 when he told the High Court that the state did not have to provide any evidence to continue to detain a critically ill opposition member of parliament who was trying to get out of prison on bail .
He was also appointed by Mr. Mugabe to draw up a new map of voting districts released before Christmas .
The MDC expressed concerns over Mr. Chiweshe 's appointment because of the voter redistricting which removed three of the MDC 's stronghold constituencies .
Mr. Chinamasa insisted that the commission reflects an all-inclusive consultation process , incorporating all three parties represented in Zimbabwe 's parliament , including the MDC .
But , new electoral laws signed into law by Mr. Mugabe last week , for the first time give the military , police and prison officials a substantial role in the next poll , and they can , if recruited to serve , control voting and counting .
There was a frenzy of lawmaking late last year to establish new legislation and electoral authorities ahead of the poll which Mr. Mugabe says will be held in March ahead of his 25th anniversary of coming to power in 1980 .
The MDC suspended participation in all elections five months ago because it said the electoral playing field was uneven .
It said it would only take part when Zimbabwe 's laws and practice complied with regional electoral principles agreed to by Mr. Mugabe and other southern African countries last August .
However most political analysts believe the MDC will take part in the general election , despite Zimbabwe 's lack of compliance with regional electoral practices and laws .
Western observers are not expected to be invited to cover Zimbabwe 's poll as they said the last two national elections were neither free nor fair .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says four American soldiers and an Afghan interpreter have been wounded in a roadside explosion in a southeastern part of the country .
A statement said the explosion occurred during a routine patrol near the town of Ghazni Tuesday .
It said initial medical assessments indicated none of the wounds were life-threatening .
On Monday , four American soldiers were wounded when a suicide bomber rammed his explosives-laden car into a U.S. military vehicle near the southern city of Kandahar .
Taleban insurgents claimed responsibility for that attack .
Meanwhile , the military said coalition forces killed two insurgents and detained 12 others after a brief firefight near Kandahar Sunday .
In recent weeks , the guerrillas have stepped up their attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan , as the country prepares for parliamentary elections expected in September .
Red Cross officials in Kabul say suspects detained by U.S. troops in Afghanistan have been allowed to speak with family members through a new video-teleconference system .
Officials said Monday , that about 60 families have so far taken advantage of the opportunity to speak with prisoners held at the detention center on the U.S. Bagram Air Force Base .
Many families have not spoken to their detained relatives for several years .
Around 600 detainees are being held at the facility .
The International Committee of the Red Cross helped organize the initiative , which is the first of its kind .
Since the 2001 U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan , hundreds of Taliban and al-Qaida suspects have been detained , along with others accused of terrorist activities .
World number-two men 's tennis player Rafael Nadal of Spain has withdrawn from the season 's first Grand Slam tournament , the Australian Open , which begins Monday in Melbourne .
The 19-year-old French Open champion said on his website Tuesday that he would be unable to play because of a foot injury he suffered in October at the Madrid Masters .
He has not played a tour event since .
Nadal joins American Andre Agassi on the sidelines for the tournament , which could still lose Russians Marat Safin and Maria Sharapova because of fitness doubts .
But top men 's seed and world number-one Roger Federer of Switzerland says he is in good form heading into the event and is fully recovered from the ankle injury that hampered him last season .
A SWALLOW who had built her nest in a court of justice reared a fine family of young birds .
One day a Snake came out of a chink in the wall and was about to eat them .
The Just Judge at once issued an injunction , and making an order for their removal to his own house , ate them himself .
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts .
He grasped as many as he could possibly hold , but when he tried to pull out his hand , he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher .
Unwilling to lose his filberts , and yet unable to withdraw his hand , he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment .
A bystander said to him , " Be satisfied with half the quantity , and you will readily draw out your hand . "
Do not attempt too much at once .
The world 's largest maker of jetliners , Airbus , says it sold more planes than rival Boeing last year .
Tuesday 's announcement surprised some analysts who thought Boeing might regain the sales lead .
Airbus says it has firm orders for a record 1055 planes , while Boeing has orders for 1002 , which is a record for the company .
Boeing 's orders include more wide-body planes , so at list prices , its orders are worth somewhat more than Airbus .
Orders for jetliners soared in 2005 , as Asian airlines expanded their fleets to meet growing demand , and other airlines sought new , more fuel-efficient planes to cope with high oil costs .
Cyprus Foreign Minister George Iacovou says his European Union counterparts have agreed on a statement responding to Turkey 's refusal to recognize the internationally backed Cypriot government .
Mr. Iacovou gave no details of the statement .
But he told the Cyprus News Agency the ministers left it up to ambassadors of the 25 EU countries to work out the final text of the document .
Earlier , Turkey 's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul warned his country will abandon its EU membership bid if the bloc imposes new conditions on Ankara , or tries to offer anything less than full membership .
Turkey has insisted that recognition of the Greek-led Cypriot government depends on a resolution of the three-decade division of Cyprus .
EU ministers have been pressing Turkey to normalize relations with all EU members , including Cyprus .
Turkey is scheduled to start EU membership talks next month .
A group of Iraqi lawmakers loyal to Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has staged a protest against a proposal allowing British troops to remain in the country .
The Sadrist politicians walked out of a session of parliament Saturday , suspending consideration of the proposal .
The deal would allow up to 100 British troops to stay in Iraq beyond a previously approved withdrawal date .
They would be responsible for helping the Iraqi navy protect oil installations off the southern coast .
Moqtada al-Sadr has been a vocal and influential critic of the foreign military presence in Iraq , led by the United States .
U.S. troops withdrew from Iraqi cities at the end of June , transferring security responsibilities to Iraqi forces .
Since then , there have been a several deadly bombings across the country .
A car bomb Saturday in a Shi'ite district near Mosul killed four people and wounded at least 35 others .
Diplomats in Brussels say the foreign ministers of Britain , France and Germany will meet Iran 's top nuclear official Monday to discuss a long-term nuclear cooperation agreement .
The European Union 's foreign policy chief , Javier Solana , also will attend the negotiations .
The Europeans are expected to offer Iran a package of economic and political incentives in exchange for its permanently suspending work on uranium enrichment .
Last month , Iran agreed to a temporary suspension in an effort to avoid being brought before the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The European Union also is expected to formally agree to resume stalled trade talks with Iran on an agreement that could include European support for Iran 's membership in the World Trade Organization .
The United States has previously blocked Iran 's WTO entry bids .
The prime minister of Pakistan , Shaukat Aziz , has called for European help in repatriating three million Afghan refugees in his country .
Mr. Aziz says refugee camps along the border with Afghanistan provide safe havens for terrorists .
The prime minister also promised to strengthen efforts to restrict cross-border attacks into Afghanistan .
The Pakistan government has proposed a controversial plan to fence and mine parts of the mountainous border .
Mr. Aziz is in Belgium , holding talks with European Union and NATO leaders .
After Tuesday 's meeting , NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer called for an end to criticism of Pakistan 's efforts to contain militants .
Scheffer said it does not make sense to have a public " blame game . "
The Afghan government and the United States have both accused Pakistan of failing to clamp down on Taleban insurgents based in Pakistan who launch attacks into Afghanistan .
European Union Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson says EU trading partners are not ready to make what he calls the " hard decisions " needed for a world trade deal .
Monday , Mandelson made his first speech to the European Parliament since last month 's World Trade Organization meeting ended with little progress .
He said Hong Kong and other major European trading partners are not yet prepared to make the concessions needed to bring talks to a successful conclusion in 2006 .
Mandelson said he will do what he can to meet a deadline for a deal , but not at Europe 's expense .
The EU says it has made significant compromises on such issues as farm subsidies to open its market to agricultural imports .
The United States and other countries say the E.U . has not gone far enough .
India 's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has invited Kashmir 's pro-independence leader , Yasin Malik , for talks on ending the decades-old dispute over the Himalayan territory .
An adviser to Mr. Singh , Sanjaya Baru , told reporters the talks are scheduled to be held in New Delhi on February 17 .
Malik is the chief of the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front .
He told a Pakistani TV channel , Geo TV , that he has convened a meeting of the working committee of his group on February 15th to decide on how to respond to the invitation .
The front is one of the several Kashmiri separatist groups that are demanding independence for Kashmir .
Other groups are demanding a merger with Pakistan .
Sylvester Stallone faces stiff fines in Australia , where he is accused of importing a muscle-building hormone .
The movie star was detained Feb. 16 in the Sydney airport , while authorities searched his hotel room .
He and his group subsequently left the country , and he was not compelled to attend the March 13 hearing .
He is accused of possessing human growth hormone , classified in Australia as a restricted performance-enhancing drug .
The maximum penalty for illegal possession is a fine of $ 86,000 and five years in prison .
Stallone is unlikely to face such a sentence .
A suicide bomber tried to kill the leader of Iraq 's most powerful Shi'ite political group Monday while the main Sunni party withdrew from the country 's January 30th election .
Abdul Aziz al-Hakim , whose United Iraqi Alliance is expected to dominate the vote , survived the Baghdad attack .
But at least 13 people were killed .
Earlier in the day , the Sunni Iraqi Islamic Party pulled out of the vote because of concerns over violence .
The party says more time is needed to ensure that all Shi'ites and Sunnis participate in the election .
In other election news , a new audiotape purportedly from Osama bin Laden calls for Iraqis to boycott the vote , saying those who take part will be infidels .
The speaker also endorses Abu Musab al-Zarqawi as his deputy in Iraq .
The tape has not been authenticated .
Shops , businesses , and offices were shut in Indian-controlled Kashmir Monday , after separatists called a strike to protest the death of a teenager .
Seventeen-year-old Tufail Ahmad Matoo was killed in the main town of Srinagar Friday during clashes between anti-India protesters and police .
Residents say Mattoo was hit by a teargas shell fired by police and was carrying a school bag when he was hit .
Police say they are investigating the death .
Clashes between demonstrators and security forces have erupted in Srinagar since the incident , with strict security restrictions in place to prevent further violence .
Kashmiri Muslim separatists have been fighting for two decades for independence from India or a merger with Muslim-majority Pakistan .
The insurgency has killed more than 47,000 people .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed in its entirety by both .
The neighbors have fought two wars over the region .
Terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden apparently has surfaced on an audiotape calling for the overthrow of Saudi Arabia 's government .
The lengthy message criticizes the Saudi monarchy , saying its attempts at reform will not change anything and that change will only come through armed struggle and the government 's overthrow .
Authorities say the authenticity of the tape , which surfaced Thursday on an Islamist website , could not immediately be verified .
He also praises the militants who attacked the U.S. consulate in the Saudi city of Jeddah earlier this month , asking God to be merciful on them .
Four of the attackers were killed , a fifth was arrested .
Five consulate staff members who were not American were also killed .
Osama bin Laden remains a fugitive .
He was last heard from in a videotape shortly before the U.S. presidential elections last month .
In a weekend of second-round qualifiers for the 2012 African Cup of Nations , no result was more surprising than Niger 's 1-0 upset of reigning African champions Egypt .
Football fans in Niger 's capital celebrated throughout the night , blowing horns and singing the praises of their Menas ' win over the Pharaohs of Egypt .
It was a stunning upset , even for the most loyal of Niger 's football faithful .
FIFA ranks Egypt 9th in the world .
Niger : 154th .
Niamey 's 35,000 seat Stade Général Seyni Kountché was full long before the mid-afternoon kick-off under a blistering sun .
Striker Ouwa Moussa Maazou scored the only goal in the first half , getting past Egyptian defender Mohamed Abel Shafy who failed to clear .
Goalkeeper Essam el-Hadary charged Maazou , but the 22-year-old striker - who is on loan from French club Bordeaux - slipped the ball past him into the net .
Egypt pressed for the equalizer at the start of the second half , but rarely got much past midfield .
Their best chance came off a free kick in the 76th minute .
But Mahmoud Fathallah was ruled offside .
Maazou 's goal and solid defense gives Niger three points in Group G and drops Egypt to the bottom of the group with only one point after two matches , following their opening 1-1 draw with Sierra Leone in Cairo .
It was an inauspicious start for the record seven-time continental champions , who next play South Africa in Johannesburg .
Niger hosts Sierra Leone as it pushes to qualify for the 2012 tournament in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon .
An Afghan official says Taleban militants have captured a district in southern Kandahar province after several days of fierce fighting .
Kandahar 's provincial police chief , Esmatullah Alizai , Tuesday said the Taleban took control of Mian Neshin district late Monday .
Officials said Afghan forces made a tactical decision to withdraw from clashes with militants .
They added that authorities are planning an operation to recapture the district .
Elsewhere , in nearby Uruzgan province , fighting continues Tuesday between NATO forces and Taleban militants .
Officials say about 60 Taleban insurgents have been killed in the past three days of fighting in the district of Chora .
Afghan authorities say civilians were also killed , but casualty figures could not be verified .
GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share .
The reduced dividend is payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 15 .
The Kearny , N.J.-based maker of hair accessories and other cosmetic products said it cut the dividend due to its third-quarter loss of $ 992,000 , or 15 cents a share .
In the year-ago quarter , the company reported net income of $ 1.9 million , or 29 cents a share .
The company also adopted an anti-takeover plan .
Nepali authorities say at least six Maoist rebels were killed and several soldiers were missing following a fierce gunbattle in eastern Nepal .
Officials say the fighting erupted Wednesday , when rebels ambushed a security patrol in a rural area of Ilam , about 680 kilometers east of Kathmandu .
The rebels say they have killed 20 soldiers .
But officials say they could not confirm if the army suffered any casualties .
Earlier this week , the Nepali army had warned that the Maoists could be planning major attacks to mark next month 's ninth anniversary of the start of their revolt .
The rebels , who want to establish a communist republic in the world 's only Hindu kingdom , last week rejected a government deadline to resume peace talks .
The government is pushing ahead with plans for long-delayed elections later this year .
Ugandan 's president says his country could increase the number of troops it has in Somalia as part of the African Union peacekeeping force .
In a statement Thursday , President Yoweri Museveni says Uganda is " capable " of providing all 8,000 troops authorized for the force by the AU .
The statement says he made the comment to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon on Wednesday , on the sidelines of the AU summit in Ethiopia .
Mr. Museveni told the U.N. leader he has to discuss the matter with his High Command first but will inform Mr. Ban of the decision .
Uganda and Burundi have deployed a total of about 2,000 troops to Somalia , where the Somali government and allied Ethiopian troops have been battling an Islamist-led insurgency for more than a year .
Fighting centered in Mogadishu has killed thousands of people and prompted more than 600,000 others to flee the city .
Mr. Ban has expressed concern that few African countries have fulfilled their promise of troops for the AU peacekeeping froce .
The New York City Fire Department has released thousands of pages of oral histories and hours of radio transmissions from the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center .
A New York State court of appeals ruled in March that the items must be made public .
The oral histories were complied by firefighters shortly after the attacks on the twin towers , and include accounts from firefighters and emergency medical personnel who were on the scene .
The New York Times newspaper and families of the victims of the attacks had sued for the release of the material .
The city had said it wanted to protect the privacy of those involved , and not jeopardize the case against Zacarias Moussaoui , who later pleaded guilty to conspiring with the hijackers .
The White House is urging the United Nations Security Council to keep pressure on Syria , after a report further implicated senior Syrian officials in the murder of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Spokesman Scott McClellan said Tuesday that the United States supports U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis ' request to extend the murder investigation for another six months .
Mr. Mehlis requested the extension Monday , saying his team had found new evidence implicating Syria in the February assassination .
The Security Council is due to discuss Mr. Mehlis ' report today .
Meanwhile , in Beirut , Lebanese mourned the killing Monday of prominent anti-Syrian legislator and newspaper publisher Gibran Tueni in a car bomb blast .
Many schools and businesses were closed , as Mr. Tueni 's family received condolences at a Greek Orthodox church in East Beirut .
A coalition of anti-Syrian groups has called for a general strike Wednesday to coincide with his funeral .
Chinese National Basketball Association All-Star center Yao Ming will be on the sidelines for several games because of a sore right big toe .
The Houston Rockets star missed his first game of the season and the third of his NBA career on Sunday .
Team officials say the injury will keep Yao off the court indefinitely .
The 25-year-old center has played in 266 regular-season games since joining the Rockets in 2002 .
He has had a problem with his toe for some time , forcing him to miss two pre-season games .
Yao is the leading vote-getter after the first set of returns for this season 's All-Star game .
He is averaging 19.9 points per game , nine rebounds and 1.36 blocked shots .
Police in western India say at least 52 people were killed and at least eight others injured Thursday , when a train collided with a tractor carrying a wedding party .
Police say the accident happened in a small village in Maharashtra state , some 800 kilometers northeast of Bombay , also known as Mumbai .
They say a local train bound for the central city of Nagpur smashed into a tractor as it was crossing the tracks .
Accidents are relatively frequent on India 's railway network , which handles 13 million passengers on 14,000 trains every day .
In December , a head-on collision of two passenger trains in Punjab state brought opposition party calls for the resignation of Railways Minister Laloo Prasad Yadav .
At least 37 people died in that crash .
The Arabic television station al-Jazeera has broadcast a videotape of al-Qaida 's second in command , Ayman al-Zawahri , who vowed to keep fighting the United States unless Washington changes its policies towards the Muslim world .
In excerpts of the video aired Monday , Osama bin Laden 's deputy said al-Qaida was not concerned with the results of the U.S. presidential election .
It was unclear if the video was filmed before or after the November 2 vote .
Just days before the election , al-Jazeera aired a video from Osama bin Laden , who also said the United States must stop threatening Muslims if it wants to avoid another September 11-style attack .
An Israeli newspaper reports the filmmaker whose documentary sparked an outrage in Egypt has admitted that he mistakenly identified 250 Palestinian fighters as Egyptian prisoners , who he claimed were killed by Israeli troops during the 1967 Six-Day War .
The Jerusalem Post says the filmmaker Ran Edelist also admitted using incorrect archival footage to illustrate the incident .
Since the documentary was aired last week , Israel repeatedly denied that its soldiers killed Egyptian prisoners during the war .
Israel also agreed to hand over a copy of the film and its transcript to Egypt .
However , Egypt asked for an investigation .
And , an Egyptian parliamentary committee has threatened to review economic relations and agreements with Israel if the incident is not investigated .
Because of rising tensions over the film , Israeli Cabinet Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer earlier this week postponed a scheduled visit to Egypt .
Ben-Eliezer commanded the military unit at the center of the controversy .
In Liberia , supporters of former soccer star George Weah have vowed to continue their protests of the November 8 presidential run-off election , which they say was fraudulent .
The elections commission is expected to announce the final results Tuesday .
Frank Sainworla , radio director of the VOA affiliate , Radio Veritas in the Liberian capital , Monrovia , talked with English to Africa reporter James Butty .
Orchid growers are trying to grab a bigger share of the global trade in flowers , which accounts for several billion dollars each year .
Growers from Latin America and Asia are scrambling to market unique plants and develop brand new varieties to meet the growing demand .
VOA 's Brian Wagner has this report from Miami .
Suicide car bombers carried out two deadly attacks in Baghdad Thursday , killing 11 people as the Iraqi president met with Britain 's prime minister in London ahead of Iraq 's constitutional referendum .
An American soldier also was killed Thursday in combat operations in northern Baghdad .
Fear of spiraling violence before next week 's referendum was one of the topics President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Tony Blair were expected to discuss .
At a joint news conference after their meeting , Mr. Talabani said the presence of American and British troops in Iraq is absolutely vital , and that no timetable for their departure has been set .
For his part , Mr. Blair said new , more dangerous explosives are being used in Iraq , and there are unproven suspicions they are coming from Iran or its Lebanese ally , Hezbollah .
Those charges were quickly denied by Iranian and Hezbollah officials .
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician , skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases .
A Fox asked him , " How can you pretend to prescribe for others , when you are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin ? '
Nigeria 's main militant group said one of its commanders and 62 of his followers were not captured by the military , but rather turned themselves in for a promised cash reward .
The military had said it arrested the militants Friday in southern Nigeria 's Rivers State .
On Saturday , it paraded the men in front of the media at an air force base in the southern oil hub of Port Harcourt .
In a statement Monday , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta ( MEND ) refuted the government 's account of the arrests , saying its fighters " handed themselves over " with " no exchange of gunfire . "
Nigerian authorities say the militants kidnapped 19 oil and construction workers in the Niger Delta region .
The hostages , who were freed last week , included seven foreigners .
The group has threatened more attacks on oil facilities .
A police chief in western Iraq says the country began stationing thousands of extra security officers along Iraq 's border with Syria this week in an effort to keep out insurgents .
The chief , Major-General Tariq Youssef , said Friday that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki ordered the reinforcements , in the wake of August truck bombings in Baghdad that killed more than 100 people .
The Iraqi government has linked the blasts to Baathist sympathizers located in Syria .
Syria has demanded Iraqi authorities provide evidence to back up their allegations .
Iraq has also demanded that Syria hand over two people that Baghdad suspects played a role in the attacks .
Syria has refused , demanding proof .
The bombings have soured relations between Iraq and Syria .
Turkey has been holding talks aimed at defusing tensions between the two countries .
The World Food Program ( WFP ) warns that fighting in Chad could leave up to 700,000 people short of food .
The U.N. agency expressed concern that violence will delay truck convoys trying to reach refugees in eastern Chad and displaced people in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The agency says the trucks must get through before the end of next month , when seasonal rains are expected to make road travel impossible .
Chad 's government is fighting an insurgency that President Idriss Deby says is backed by Sudan .
The Sudanese government denies the charge .
The World Food Program says it remains operational in Chad despite recent clashes that led it to evacuate non-essential staff .
The agency says it is wrapping up April food distribution in eastern Chad , where it looks after some 200,000 refugees from Darfur .
The agency feeds another 500,000 displaced Sudanese in Darfur itself .
Warlords in Somalia 's capital , Mogadishu , have begun surrendering their weapons , in an effort to restore stability in the city and ease the return of the country 's transitional government , currently in exile in Kenya .
Hundreds of warlords who spent more than a decade fighting each other are disarming in camps outside Mogadishu .
The African Union and the United States have said such a move is essential to restoring stability and eventually paving the way for the return of Somalia 's first central government in 14 years .
Last week , Somali lawmakers were locked in a dispute over moving to Mogadishu .
Some lawmakers feel the capital city is still too unsafe , and they want to move to other , less violent parts of Somalia or stay in Nairobi .
The head of the U.S. central bank signaled Tuesday that interest rates are not likely to be cut anytime soon .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said interest rate policies and efforts to stimulate the faltering U.S. economy are " well positioned " to promote growth and stable prices .
The Fed has been cutting interest rates steadily to boost economic growth .
But officials must balance the need to boost the economy with the concern that cutting interest rates too low could spark inflation .
Inflation concerns have been rising along with the price of oil .
Fuel price hikes are also forcing the biggest U.S. automaker to slash truck production and make more small , fuel-efficient cars .
General Motors Tuesday announced that it will close four North American plants that make trucks .
Armed militants briefly occupied the West Bank headquarters of the Palestinian Cabinet Thursday , in a protest against the territory 's new Hamas-led government .
Palestinian authorities say about 20 militants from the Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades forced their way into the cabinet offices Thursday in Ramallah , the administrative headquarters of the Palestinian Authority .
The gunmen stayed for about an hour , before they were persuaded to leave by a police contingent that arrived at the scene .
Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades is a militant faction of Fatah , and the security forces at the scene were also under the control of Fatah leader and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas .
Muslims in northwestern Pakistan continue to protest against the controversial Prophet Muhammad cartoons as the EU foreign policy chief arrives in Saudi Arabia , saying Europe respects Islam .
The protest in Pakistan began Monday morning when students marched to different universities in the city of Peshawar , urging people to join the demonstration .
They pelted offices and shops with stones as they marched .
Police fired tear gas and used batons to disperse the protesters when they tried to march on the provincial governor 's residence .
In Jeddah , EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said Europe had never wanted to offend the feelings of Muslims and never will .
Solana made the remarks as he met with the head of the 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference , Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu .
The unrest was sparked by cartoons of the prophet published initially by a Danish newspaper last September .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas has canceled plans for its anniversary rally over fears of an Israeli attack .
Thousands of Hamas supporters had been expected to join the rally Friday to mark the 17th anniversary of the founding of the movement .
A Hamas spokesman Mushir al-Masri said the rally at a Gaza City sports stadium has been canceled because of renewed concern about the safety of Hamas leaders - particularly after Sunday 's attack on an Israeli military post in Gaza that killed five soldiers .
Israel has assassinated Hamas founder and his successor in separate air strikes earlier this year .
Israel also killed more than a dozen Hamas fighters when it bombed a soccer field where the militants were training .
Iraqi officials say a senior Interior Ministry official has been shot and killed in Baghdad .
The assassination occurred Tuesday .
Reuters news agency says the group led by Jordanian terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility for the killing .
Guerrillas loyal to Zaraqawi 's group also took responsibility for some of the attacks Monday in Iraq that left 25 people dead .
A suicide attack killed 15 people north of Baghdad while several attacks on Iraqi police and soldiers in Baquba killed 10 people .
The United Nations says the December 26 Indian Ocean tsunami dumped tons of hazardous waste on the shores of Somalia .
A spokesman for the U.N. Environment Program says containers filled with nuclear , chemical and medical waste broke apart when they washed ashore , and have been spread by the weather .
The spokesman says there have been reports from northern Somalia of illnesses consistent with radiation sickness , including respiratory infections , mouth ulcers , abdominal hemorrhages and unusual skin diseases .
The United Nations says foreign companies , many from Europe , began dumping toxic waste on Somalia 's shore in the 1980s , but the practice accelerated after the 1991 overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre .
The tsunami is believed to have dislodged the hazardous materials .
Japanese officials have unveiled plans to cope with a possible bird flu epidemic .
The action plan released by the Japanese health ministry Monday anticipates that a quarter of the population , some 32 million people , could become infected and that as many as 640,000 people could die .
The Japanese plan would shut down schools , ban large gatherings and declare a state of emergency in the case of a severe flu epidemic .
The government will also increase stockpiles of the anti-viral drug Tamiflu .
Japan has reported no human deaths from bird flu so far .
Afghan officials are welcoming the Netherlands ' decision to keep its troops in southern Afghanistan , but the officials say the international community must do more to equip domestic forces .
Afghan Defense Ministry officials Saturday said the extension of the Dutch mission is a positive step .
But they said further training of Afghan troops is necessary to ensure long-term security in Afghanistan .
The Dutch government announced Friday it will extend the mandate of its troops until 2010 .
The soldiers serve as part of a NATO force .
Around 1,700 Dutch troops have been deployed in the southern Uruzgan province , where NATO and U.S.-led forces are fighting fierce battles against Taliban militants .
A renewed Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan has turned this year into the deadliest yet since the 2001 U.S.-led invasion ousted the Taliban government .
The leader of opposition Democrats in the U.S. Senate says the Bush administration needs to explain what role it had in the exposure of a covert CIA officer .
Interviewed Sunday on the ABC television program " This Week , " Senator Harry Reid said President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney " come clean with the American public . "
Mr. Reid also said the president should pledge not to pardon Mr. Cheney 's former chief of staff Lewis Libby if he is convicted .
Mr. Libby resigned Friday after being indicted on five charges in connection with statements he made to investigators probing the CIA leak .
Both the president and Mr. Cheney have refused to comment on the probe .
Senator Reid also called for the resignation of Mr. Bush 's chief adviser , Karl Rove .
Mr. Rove has not been charged with a crime in the probe but reportedly remains under investigation .
U.S. officials say Pakistan and Afghanistan must decide for themselves on an appropriate and effective method of reducing cross-border infiltration .
In an interview with VOA Wednesday the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs , Nicholas Burns , said Pakistan 's plan to lay land mines along parts of its border with Afghanistan is a bilateral issue .
Afghan officials have opposed the plan , saying it will do little to prevent terrorism .
Afghanistan has repeatedly accused Pakistan of not doing enough to stop Taleban militants from infiltrating their shared border .
Burns also said he hopes the two sides can resolve a wave of Taleban-led attacks on civilians and NATO forces inside Afghanistan .
Fighting in Afghanistan increased dramatically last year , killing thousands and igniting tensions between Kabul and Islamabad .
Insurgents have carried out a series of attacks across Iraq , killing at least 25 people and wounding more than 93 others .
Spain 's interior minister says police confiscated documents indicating potential terrorism targets from two suspected members of the Basque separatist group ETA arrested in France Thursday .
Jose Antonio Alonso told reporters the documents included information about four Madrid sports complexes the city has listed in its bid for the 2012 Olympics .
The other two sites were water desalinization plants in southern Spain .
Mr. Alonso Thursday identified one of the men arrested near the southern French city of Toulouse as Pedro Esquisabel Urtuzaga , the chief of ETA international operations .
ETA has been blamed for the deaths of more than 800 people since the late 1960s , when it launched its terrorist campaign for creation of an independent Basque state in southwestern France and northern Spain .
Colombia 's main rebel group has insisted the government pull troops out of two mountain towns before it will take part in face-to-face meetings .
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , issued a statement to President Alvaro Uribe , calling on the government to pull troops out of two towns in the Valle del Cauca region .
Mr. Uribe has rejected the request .
Last month , the Colombian government offered to to meet with the FARC at a time and a place of their choosing to discuss a possible prisoner swap .
The leftist rebel group is said to be holding 59 hostages , including three Americans .
FARC , along with a smaller rebel group and rightist paramilitaries , is locked in a long-running war with the government that kills thousands of people each year .
The largest Sunni bloc in Iraq 's parliament has suspended its participation in the government and is threatening to withdraw completely .
The Accordance Front Wednesday , gave Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki one week to meet its demands to deal with Shi'ite militias and reform the conduct of raids and arrests .
The bloc has been boycotting cabinet meetings since June to protest legal proceedings against Culture Minister Asad Kamal al-Hashimi .
Al-Hashimi has been accused of arranging to have another politician killed .
Last week , the Accordance Front and a group of Shi'ite lawmakers ended a boycott of Iraq 's parliament .
Also Tuesday , Baghdad police say at least six people were killed when U.S. and Iraqi forces clashed with Shi'ite militias in the Sadr City neighborhood .
And the U.S. military says it has detained the administrative head of al-Qaida in Iraq 's Mosul operations during early morning raids .
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says coalition forces will next hand over control of southern Maysan province to Iraqi troops .
Zebari was speaking in London Tuesday , after talks with British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett .
Zebari did not say when he expects the transfer to take place .
On Monday , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki confirmed that British , Australian and Japanese troops will soon turn over security responsibility to Iraqi forces in southern Muthana province .
Beckett would not say whether the transfer of responsibility will mean that British forces will return home or be redeployed elsewhere in Iraq .
Britain has about 7,200 troops in southern Iraq based around the city of Basra .
Honduran authorities have arrested two gang members in the death of an American agent who was fatally shot while on vacation in Tegucigalpa .
Officials say the suspects were arrested Saturday in connection with the death of Timothy Markey , an agent with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration .
Authorities say Mr. Markey was visiting a cathedral in the capital city Friday when he was approached and shot in the leg .
Mr. Markey was rushed to a hospital , where he was later pronounced dead .
Officials say the fatal incident appears to have been an attempted robbery .
A DEA statement says the 44-year-old agent had worked for the administration since 1989 , and was assigned to a unit in the southern U.S. state of Texas .
New Mexico governor Bill Richardson , a former presidential candidate , plans to endorse Democratic Senator Barack Obama for president .
Officials with Obama 's campaign tell news agencies that the two men will appear together at a rally Friday in Portland , Oregon .
In a statement obtained by the Associated Press , Richardson calls Obama a " one of a kind " leader who can bring the country together .
Richardson , the nation 's only Hispanic governor , was energy secretary under former President Bill Clinton and was also an ambassador to the United Nations .
Recent opinion polls indicate that Hispanics have tended to support Obama 's Democratic rival , Senator Hillary Clinton .
Obama currently leads among delegates selected at Democratic primaries and caucuses .
The next major primary is to take place in Pennsylvania next month - April 22 .
Tens of thousands of anti-government demonstrators have marched on the main government offices in Thailand 's capital , Bangkok .
Some 30,000 protesters marched through the city for two hours , urging the government to dissolve parliament and punish those responsible for last year 's crippling protests .
The earlier demonstrations ousted current Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva 's pro-Thaksin predecessor Somchai Wongsawat .
Before dispersing , the demonstrators promised to make their protest permanent , if their demands are not met within 15 days .
More than 5,000 police were deployed to secure the mass protest , which ran from Saturday afternoon into early Sunday .
Last year , yellow-shirted protesters occupied Government House for about three months , and shut down major airports before a coup ousted the government .
Thailand has been wracked by political unrest for years .
The country is sharply divided between groups who favor and oppose Mr. Thaksin , who was ousted in a coup in 2006 .
Church and state leaders have joined ordinary citizens in Russia in marking Orthodox Christmas Eve .
The head of the Russian Orthodox Church , Patriarch Alexy , urged believers to mark Christmas with good deeds .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says he urged the faithful to pool their efforts to allow the joy of Christmas to enter every home .
Russian President Vladimir Putin attended a Christmas Eve service at a cathedral in the Siberian city of Yakutsk .
In a message to citizens , Mr. Putin urged them to follow the Christmas tradition of helping those in need .
In Rome , Pope Benedict extended Christmas greetings to Orthodox Christians as Roman Catholics marked the feast of the Epiphany - the Three Kings or Wise Men who tradition says brought gifts to Jesus following his birth .
Many Orthodox churches celebrate Christmas on the Julian calendar - about two weeks later than most other Christians .
Police in the northeastern U.S. state of Connecticut say a disgruntled employee at a beer distribution firm went on a shooting spree at his place of employment , leaving nine people dead including himself .
A labor union official says the suspect was a driver who had worked at the company , Hartford Distributors .
He apparently went on a rampage Tuesday , after being summoned for a disciplinary hearing .
The shooting took place at 7:30 in the morning at a company warehouse , while a large number of people were inside the building during a shift change .
Police say , after the rampage , it appears the gunman shot and killed himself .
Three New Orleans police officers have been charged in the beating of a 64-year-old man and the assaulting of a television news producer with a crew that videotaped the incident .
The video shows two uniformed officers and two other men repeatedly punching Robert Davis in the face and body as he was being arrested Saturday night for public drunkenness in the southern U.S. city .
The Associated Press cameraman then took pictures of a third officer manhandling the producer who was holding up his credentials to the officer .
Other ( CNN ) video shows Mr. Davis in handcuffs lying on the ground in a pool of blood with his face badly beaten .
The three officers have been suspended and charged with battery .
The New Orleans police department has come under heavy scrutiny for their response to Hurricane Katrina .
Many officers have been accused of deserting their posts or joining in the looting that broke out .
Authorities in Iraq say at least 12 people were killed in a series of attacks Wednesday , mainly in and around the northern city of Mosul .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb exploded near a Shi'ite mosque on the outskirts of Mosul , killing nine people and wounding others .
A second blast in a nearby village also caused injuries .
At least 22 people were wounded in the two explosions .
And police in central Mosul say at least seven people were wounded Wednesday when a gunman threw an explosive device at a police patrol .
Mosul has been the scene of a number of deadly attacks since U.S. combat troops formally withdrew from the city last week .
In other violence , Iraqi police and witnesses say at least three people have been killed and 18 wounded in a bombing south of Baghdad .
Authorities say the blast in the town of Musayyib appeared to target a wedding party .
Cuba is criticizing recent efforts by U.S.-funded TV Marti to bring its anti-Castro programming to Cuban viewers .
Cuba 's Communist Party newspaper Granma , in an article published Tuesday , said Cuban authorities will take the measures to block the TV Marti programming broadcast on a Miami local television station .
The station , WPMF-TV , can be received by Cubans with satellite dishes , although such devices are illegal in Cuba .
Radio and TV Marti announced in December that it would pay to have its programming broadcast on Spanish-language stations in Miami that are received by illegal satellite dishes in Cuba .
Turkmenistan is largely a desert country with intensive agriculture in irrigated oases and sizeable gas and oil resources .
The two largest crops are cotton , most of which is produced for export , and wheat , which is domestically consumed .
Although agriculture accounts for roughly 10 % of GDP , it continues to employ nearly half of the country 's workforce .
With an authoritarian ex-Communist regime in power and a tribally based social structure , Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to economic reform , hoping to use gas and cotton export revenues to sustain its inefficient economy .
Privatization goals remain limited .
From 1998 - 2005 , Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate export routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive short-term external debt .
At the same time , however , total exports rose by an average of roughly 15 % per year from 2003 - 08 , largely because of higher international oil and gas prices .
New pipelines to China and Iran , that began operation in early 2010 , have given Turkmenistan additional export routes for its gas , although these new routes have not offset the sharp drop in export revenue since early 2009 from decreased gas exports to Russia .
Overall prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread internal poverty , endemic corruption , a poor educational system , government misuse of oil and gas revenues , and Ashgabat 's reluctance to adopt market-oriented reforms .
In the past , Turkmenistan 's economic statistics were state secrets .
The new government has established a State Agency for Statistics , but GDP numbers and other figures are subject to wide margins of error .
In particular , the rate of GDP growth is uncertain .
Since his election , President BERDIMUHAMEDOW unified the country 's dual currency exchange rate , ordered the redenomination of the manat , reduced state subsidies for gasoline , and initiated development of a special tourism zone on the Caspian Sea .
Although foreign investment is encouraged , numerous bureaucratic obstacles impede international business activity .
More than 5,000 U.S. , Iraqi and British troops have swept through an Iraqi town south of Baghdad in the latest operation against insurgents ahead of January elections .
The U.S. military says troops arrested 32 suspected insurgents in Jabella Tuesday .
The raid follows operations in Fallujah and the northern city of Mosul .
U.S. Defense Minister Donald Rumsfeld says those operations show how much insurgents are opposed to a democratic Iraq .
He warned that attacks will likely increase ahead of the elections .
Meanwhile , foreign ministers from Arab and Western countries met Tuesday in Egypt and said full participation in the vote is the key to reconciliation in Iraq .
In another development , a Sunni Muslim cleric was gunned down outside a mosque north of Baghdad .
Hundreds of millions of Christians worldwide are celebrating Christmas Saturday .
Pope John Paul , in his traditional Christmas Day message , expressed concern at violence in the Middle East and Africa .
The Roman Catholic pontiff said he follows the situation in Iraq with " great apprehension . "
He said he has " anxious concern " about the situation in the Holy Land but also feels " invincible confidence " at the prospects for peace there .
President Bush issued a Christmas Day call for Americans to volunteer to help the neediest of their fellow citizens .
The President also acknowledged Americans serving in Afghanistan , Iraq and elsewhere around the world .
Britain 's Queen Elizabeth sent a special radio message to her troops serving around the world expressing pride and gratitude .
Later in her annual televised Christmas message , the Queen highlighted Britain 's ethnic and religious diversity and appealed for tolerance .
Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830 ; it was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II .
The country prospered in the past half century as a modern , technologically advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU .
Tensions between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition and autonomy .
Venezuelan officials say they are investigating allegations that military officers passed state secrets to the United States .
The nation 's Military Attorney General 's Office told El~Universal newspaper Thursday that it has launched a probe of the alleged spies , although it would not say how many suspects there were .
Venezuela 's Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel said Wednesday that several low-level military officers were caught passing information to the U.S. military .
He said some of the suspects have been detained and others have left the country .
The attorney for one of the suspects told reporters a U.S. military attaché , identified as John Correa , has been mentioned as a possible link between the Venezuelan officers and the United States .
The U.S. embassy in Caracas had no comment .
A U.N. court begins hearing testimony Monday in the case of a well-known Rwandan musician accused of using his music to spread ethnic hatred during the country 's 1994 genocide .
Simon Bikindi , a musician and former official in Rwanda 's Ministry of Youth and Sports , faces six counts of genocide from the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda .
He has pleaded not guilty to all of the charges from the Tanzania-based court .
Prosecutors say Bikindi composed and recorded songs that encouraged Hutus to kill Tutsis .
They say he consulted with former Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana over song lyrics before passing them on to a privately owned station that broadcast anti-Tutsi propaganda .
Bikindi was arrested in the Netherlands in 2001 .
Japan has pledged $ 17 billion in development aid to other Asian countries for infrastructure projects that will help boost growth .
Speaking Saturday to the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland , Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso also repeated a pledge to lend $ 100 billion to the International Monetary Fund .
Mr. Aso also announced a new greenhouse gas emissions plan for Japan and pledged to announce emissions targets by June .
The Japanese leader planned to spend only half a day in the Swiss mountain resort and return home by late Sunday to deal with a stormy session of parliament , where the opposition hopes for a victory in elections that are required to be held this year .
Political leaders and rebels in Ivory Coast say they accept the choice of economist Charles Konan Banny to be the nation 's transitional prime minister .
A rebel spokesman told VOA that he hopes the international community will give Mr. Banny the power to do his job .
A United Nations resolution gives the new prime minister expanded authority to carry out rebel disarmament and electoral reforms , with the goal of holding new elections by next October .
African mediators appointed Mr. Banny on Sunday , ending a deadlock between President Laurent Gbagbo , opposition leaders and the rebels .
Mr. Banny , the governor of West Africa 's central bank , is expected to travel from Dakar , Senegal , to Abijan Monday .
He had been going to run for president himself , but in his new position , he is barred from seeking the office .
Finnish authorities say Russian military aircraft have repeatedly violated Finland 's airspace in recent months despite the Nordic country 's demands for an end to such actions .
The Foreign Ministry late Thursday said the flights were either on their way to Russia 's Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad or returning to Russia when they entered Finnish airspace over the Gulf of Finland .
Russia 's Interfax news Agency quotes defense ministry officials as denying any violations .
Finnish officials say Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen will raise the issue during his visit to Moscow next month .
Kaliningrad is a Russian Baltic enclave cut off from the rest of Russia by Belarus , Lithuania and Poland .
India says it is increasing security to thwart possible militant strikes in the country .
Indian Home Minister P. Chidambaram Tuesday warned reporters against creating an alarmist picture and said India is increasing its level of preparedness to meet any terror threat or attack .
The minister 's comments come just days after Israel said it has information that the same group that carried out the 2008 attacks in Mumbai , India , is planning another assault against Western and Israeli targets in the country .
Israel 's counter-terrorism bureau released a statement Thursday , September 17 , saying it has information that terrorists are planning a number of attacks across India , and may be focusing on hitting groups of Israelis and Westerners .
India is a popular destination for Israeli tourists , especially during Jewish festivals such as the traditional new year , which began Friday .
The United States , Israel and Australia have issued travel advisories to their citizens .
India 's holiday season includes Hindu , Islamic and secular holidays , as well as the period surrounding the commemoration of the September 11 , 2001 terror attacks on the United States .
The Hubble Space Telescope is back to work , after a month-long shutdown to fix problems it was having in sending information to Earth .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , said Thursday the telescope 's camera is now working as it was before the problems .
The agency said it took a photo of a pair of galaxies and that it " scored a perfect 10 " .
The photo shows the ring-shaped galaxies just after they collided .
The Hubble stopped beaming information to Earth in late September when a data unit failed .
The computer glitch forced NASA to postpone a shuttle mission to repair the Hubble .
That mission has been rescheduled for next year .
The Hubble has been orbiting about 600 kilometers above the Earth since 1990 .
The telescope sends images from space back to Earth and has revolutionized understanding of the universe .
Officials say at least 25 other al-Qaida-linked fighters were wounded during intense strikes in the villages of Loi Sam , Rashakai and Tang Khata in the Bajaur tribal region .
Pakistan says more than 100 people , most of them militants , have been killed in a renewed military offensive in the northwest over the past few days .
Pakistani officials say Pakistani security forces , backed by helicopter gunships and artillery , killed 16 suspected militants Sunday near the Afghan border .
Last month , Pakistan 's Interior Ministry chief , Rehman Malik , said the military would suspend offensives against militants in Bajaur during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , but reserved the right to attack if provoked .
Pakistan has committed itself to fighting Islamic militancy in its tribal areas , while discouraging the United States from undertaking military operations on its territory .
Tsunami rescue workers in India 's Andaman archipelago say they have found nine survivors on a remote island , 38 days after large waves devastated villages in the region .
Police say the group of five men , two women and two teenagers was found wandering in a remote part of Campbell Bay island .
Police say the Nicobari tribespeople had fled to a hill when the tsunami flooded the island .
The emaciated survivors largely lived off coconuts until they were rescued Wednesday .
They are the latest survivors discovered from the disaster that officials estimate killed more than 170,000 people , mostly in Indonesia and Sri Lanka .
Tens of thousands of people are still listed as missing .
Italian police have arrested 40 people linked to Islamic groups in nationwide raids as part of a security crackdown .
Authorities say 28 of the detainees were charged with violating rules on residence permits and 12 with other minor offenses .
But they said none face terrorism charges .
Officials say they also issued 114 expulsion orders as part of the same operation .
The raids focused on Islamic gathering places , including telephone call centers , Internet cafes and offices for sending cash abroad .
Officers also raided 15 apartments , mostly those of Pakistanis , in cooperation with a Belgian police investigation into suspected financing of terrorist groups .
The raids , Thursday and Friday , followed Thursday 's arrest in Britain of 24 people suspected in an alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners over the Atlantic Ocean .
Police in Indonesia have asked churches to prepare for possible Christmas attacks by digging holes for suspicious objects that might be bombs .
Officials in the central Java city of Solo said Friday they are requesting churches put any suspicious object into a one-meter deep hole to store until a bomb squad can arrive .
Earlier this month , Jakarta 's police chief said he will deploy up to 17,000 security officers to safeguard the Indonesian capital during the upcoming Christian holiday season .
Five years ago , militants bombed 11 churches on Christmas Eve , killing 19 people .
Police suspect the radical Jemaah Islamiyah group was responsible .
A Palestinian court has sentenced a man to death by hanging for selling West Bank land to Israeli citizens .
The sentence was handed down Tuesday by a court in the West Bank town of Hebron , but it may be unlikely to be carried out .
Prosecutors say the defendant sold to Israelis land that did not belong to him in the village of Beit Omar near Hebron .
The Palestinian Authority considers the sale of Palestinian land to Israelis to be treason .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas must approve the sentence for it to be carried out .
He has withheld approval in many other death penalty cases .
Several other Palestinians charged with collaborating with Israel are currently on death row .
Hungary became a Christian kingdom in A.D. 1000 and for many centuries served as a bulwark against Ottoman Turkish expansion in Europe .
The kingdom eventually became part of the polyglot Austro-Hungarian Empire , which collapsed during World War I .
The country fell under Communist rule following World War II .
In 1956 , a revolt and an announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met with a massive military intervention by Moscow .
Under the leadership of Janos KADAR in 1968 , Hungary began liberalizing its economy , introducing so-called " Goulash Communism . "
Hungary held its first multiparty elections in 1990 and initiated a free market economy .
It joined NATO in 1999 and the EU five years later .
In 2011 , Hungary assumed the six-month rotating presidency of the EU for the first time .
U.S. Olympic Committee chairman Peter Ueberroth is calling on the U.S. government to reverse a decision to deny Cuba 's national baseball team permission to play in the United States .
Last week , the Treasury Department denied a permit for Cuba to play in the inaugural 16-team World Baseball Classic in March .
Ueberroth says the decision will damage American efforts to host the Olympics in the future .
Olympic host countries must guarantee all nations can participate .
Cuba had been set to play against Puerto Rico , Panama and the Netherlands in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico in the first round .
A permit from the Treasury Department 's Office of Foreign Assets Control is necessary because of U.S. laws governing certain commercial transactions with the communist island nation .
Exit polls in Ecuador indicate voters have overwhelmingly approved President Rafael Correa 's proposal to establish an assembly to rewrite the country 's constitution .
The Cedatos-Gallup poll says 78 percent of voters supported the referendum that Mr. Correa says will help end government corruption and inefficiency .
However , critics accuse the leftist president of trying to centralize power around himself by stripping authority from the country 's unpopular congress .
Mr. Correa 's plans to redefine the government are similar to what his ally , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , has done in his country .
Mr. Correa , who became president in January , had threatened to resign if the proposal was not approved .
Earlier this year , the nation 's electoral court fired 57 opposition lawmakers who attempted to block the referendum .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb targeting a police patrol has killed six people and wounded at least 11 more in a city north of Baghdad .
Police said Thursday the blast took place in central Tikrit , hometown of former dictator Saddam Hussein .
They said four police officers were among the dead and several others were wounded .
Overall violence in Iraq has yet to match the peak reached in 2006 and 2007 .
However , insurgents have intensified attacks since inconclusive March elections left the country without a governing coalition .
The U.S.-led military forces in Afghanistan say more than a dozen militants were killed in a day-long battle in southern part of the country Saturday .
A coalition and an Afghan soldier were also killed in the fighting .
Saturday 's fighting took place in southern Helmand province .
Coalition and Afghan forces called for air strikes on militant positions after coming under attack in the area .
Also in the south , Taleban militants executed the kidnapped son of a district police chief .
The victim was reported to be between 14 and 18-years-old .
In other violence , a roadside bomb hit an Afghan army convoy killing at least two soldiers and wounding three others in the western Farah province on Sunday .
A Taleban spokesperson has taken responsibility for the deadly blast .
Italian labor unions have agreed not to strike during next month 's Winter Olympic Games in Turin , Italy .
The unions and the Italian government signed a deal Wednesday that averted work stoppages between January 31 and March 23 .
The Turin Olympics run from February 10 to the 26 .
Flight attendants with Alitalia airlines had announced they planned a 24-hour strike February 10 , the day of the opening ceremonies .
Pilots had threatened a four-hour walkout February 9 .
The truce will also ban protests in telecommunications and railways industries .
Local protests outside Turin that have no impact on the Olympics will be allowed .
Last season , a small Milan television worker 's union strike led to the cancellation of the giant slalom at the World Alpine skiing championships in Bormio .
An Australian and a Palestinian have been kidnapped at gunpoint in Gaza City and those claiming responsibility say the abduction is in response to Thursday 's kidnapping of a Palestinian intelligence officer .
Masked gunmen forced the two victims into a vehicle outside a beachfront hotel Friday .
Relatives of the intelligence service officer , Jihad Abed , who was abducted the day before in Gaza , are claiming responsibility for holding the Australian and Palestinian .
The officer 's abduction is being blamed on the Jenin Martyrs Brigades militant group .
There has been no response from the group .
The officer 's family says Friday 's kidnapping was because of the failure of Palestinian authorities to secure the officer 's release , and a relative says the Australian and Palestinian will be freed in exchange for the release of the officer .
Russian authorities have detained a man suspected of being involved in the deadly school siege in the southern town of Beslan .
Officials in Moscow Wednesday said the man was arrested by security forces in Ingushetia , near the North Ossetia region where the attack took place .
They say there is also information the man took part in an armed attack targeting police facilities in Ingushetia last June .
Militants attacked one of Beslan 's schools last September , seizing more than 1,000 children , parents and teachers .
The ordeal ended in a chaotic outburst of gunfire and explosions that killed more than 330 people , about half of them children .
The U.S. Senate is to begin debate Wednesday on one of President Bush 's judicial nominees - setting the stage for a possible showdown on the delaying tactic known as a filibuster .
The leader of the Republican majority in the Senate , Bill Frist , plans to bring to the Senate floor Mr. Bush 's nomination of Priscilla Owen .
A Texas Supreme Court justice , Ms. Owen was one of seven nominees blocked by Democrats during the president 's first term .
If Democrats are successful again , Republicans say they will seek early next week to change Senate rules to limit filibusters , a parliamentary delaying procedure aimed at preventing a vote .
Opposition Democrats say changing Senate rules would drastically curtail the rights of the minority .
Talks seeking a compromise have not been successful .
Some 600,000 revelers are expected to pack Rio de Janeiro over the next few days , as the Brazilian city celebrates the annual Carnival before Lent - the Christian season of repentance .
Rio celebrates Carnival with parades featuring the sensual Brazilian dance known as the samba .
The celebration culminates Sunday and Monday with a giant samba competition in the city 's 60,000-seat Sambadrome stadium .
Outside the Sambadrome , Brazilians and tourists extend the party into the streets , wearing outlandish costumes and masks and eating and drinking to excess .
Similar celebrations take place in New Orleans in the United States , and in many parts of Europe , as people of the Christian faith squeeze in a last few days of indulgence before beginning six weeks of fasting and prayer .
Indonesia will deport a Singapore-based terrorism expert because he was conducting research in the troubled province of Maluku without a proper visa .
Rohan Gunaratna was arrested earlier this week in the region , where vicious fighting between Muslims and Christians from 1999 to 2002 killed more than 5,000 people .
Mr. Gunaratna , a Sri Lankan , is the author of the book , Inside al Qaeda : Global Network of Terror .
He is a frequent commentator on Islamic militancy and terrorism in Asia .
Police say he was using a tourist visa while doing research in Maluku .
They say Mr. Gunaratna will be flown to the capital of Jakarta Friday and then deported .
Algeria deployed police to mosques and other areas in the capital on Friday , as new riots broke out over rising food prices and high unemployment .
Witnesses say protesters took to the streets in Algiers late Thursday and Friday , tossing stones at police , who responded by firing tear gas .
Government officials also canceled football ( soccer ) games this weekend .
The unrest began this week after the sudden price hike of food staples such as flour , sugar and oil .
Protesters are also blaming government policies for continuing unemployment and economic problems , despite the country 's oil and gas wealth .
In neighboring Tunisia , violent protests over unemployment have led to three deaths in recent weeks .
Iraq 's most wanted man , al-Qaida-linked terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , has declared all-out war on democracy in Iraq .
In an audiotape released Sunday , a speaker who identifies himself as al-Zarqawi berates national elections set for next week .
He also urges Iraq 's Sunni Muslim minority to wage holy war against those who vote .
Voters are expected to cast ballots for a 275-seat national assembly that will draft Iraq 's permanent post-war constitution .
The man on the tape describes next Sunday 's poll as a " wicked trap " aimed at putting majority Shi'ites in power .
He declares a " fierce war " on those who follow what he calls " un-Islamic " ideology .
Militants in Iraq have intensified their campaign of intimidation intended to keep voters away from the polls .
Since Friday , car bombs have targeted a Shi'ite mosque and wedding party in Baghdad , killing nearly 30 people .
A Muslim woman is suing Disneyland acusing the California theme park of refusing to allow her to work in front of customers while wearing a hijab or head scarf .
Imane Boudlal filed a discrimination complaint Wednesday with the federal Equal Opportunity Commission .
The Morocco native works in the Storytellers Cafe , a themed Disney restaurant .
She says her employer gave her a choice of working behind the scenes or leaving after she began wearing the hijab in observance of Ramadan .
Disney says it is trying to make accommodations for Boudlal .
Disneyland spokeswoman Suzi Brown says the company has a dress code for its " themed positions " and has provided Boudlal with opportunities to work in backstage positions .
Israelis are celebrating the Jewish New Year , amid tight security throughout the country .
Thousands of police have been deployed since the two-day event known as Rosh Hashanah began Friday .
Security is stepped up in Jerusalem , where thousands of worshippers are expected to pray at the Western Wall , the holiest relic in Judaism .
In a statement released Thursday , President Bush sent his greetings to those celebrating the holiday around the globe .
It is the start of a ten-day period of reflection that culminates with Yom Kippur , a day of atonement .
Mr. Bush said Rosh Hashanah is considered a time to reflect on the past , celebrate the beginning of life and welcome the promise of a future filled with renewal and hope .
The U.S. government is spending more money than it is taking in - at an unprecedented level .
The Treasury Department said Monday the federal budget deficit has exceeded $ 1 trillion for the first time .
In the midst of a severe recession , Washington is spending billions on programs to stimulate the economy .
At the same time , tax receipts have slowed because of the downturn .
The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are also drawing down the government 's purse .
The Treasury released new numbers that put the deficit for the month of June at more than $ 94 billion .
At nine months into the fiscal year , that pushes the total above $ 1 trillion .
Economists say with the government owing that much money , they worry about rising interest rates and inflation .
A detained Taleban spokesman has told interrogators that fugitive Taleban leader Mullah Omar is hiding out in the western Pakistani city of Quetta .
Afghan authorities Wednesday released part of an interrogation of Mohammed Hanif , who said Mullah Omar is living in Quetta under the protection of Pakistan 's main intelligence agency , the ISI .
The Associated Press quotes Pakistan 's Interior Minister , Aftab Khan Sherpao , as calling the claim totally baseless .
He told the news agency that Omar is not living in Pakistan .
The Taleban spokesman , Hanif , was arrested by Afghan security forces on Tuesday after entering the country from Pakistan .
In another development , NATO says Afghan forces and NATO-led troops detained a senior Taleban commander in southern Afghanistan on Tuesday .
NATO said the commander , who was not named , was arrested during a raid in southern Helmand province .
Developers are not revealing the exact height of the Burj Dubai until its official debut .
But they say the $ 1.5 billion tower will reach 200 stories into the sky .
It will stretch 300 meters higher than Taiwan 's Taipei 101 , which currently holds the world record at 508 meters .
Dubai leaders hope the tapered metal and glass skyscraper will help restore investors ' confidence in the emirate .
The state-owned conglomerate Dubai World sent stock markets tumbling in November after it announced it could not repay $ 60 billion in loans .
Neighboring emirate Abu Dhabi came to Dubai 's rescue in December with a $ 10 billion aid package to help Dubai World repay some of its debt .
U.S. rights groups say the government jailed scores of U.S.-based Muslim men without charges after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
A report issued Monday by Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union says the arrests were carried out under a law that permits brief detention of " material witnesses " considered likely to flee , and believed to have important information about a crime .
The rights groups say , after a year of research , they have confirmed that of 70 men detained as witnesses following the attacks , " a handful " were charged with crimes related to terrorism .
About half were never called to testify , and the government apologized to 13 men for wrongful detention .
The report says a vast majority of detainees were of Middle Eastern or South Asian origin , several were U.S. citizens and only one was non-Muslim .
U.S. officials have yet to comment on the report .
A court in Zimbabwe has acquitted two British journalists on charges of reporting on last month 's parliamentary elections without accreditation .
A magistrate says state prosecutors failed to prove that Sunday Telegraph correspondents Toby Harnden and Julian Simmonds were working in Zimbabwe as journalists .
However , the two men will have to appear in court on Friday to face a separate charge of violating Zimbabwe 's immigration laws by overstaying their tourist visas .
They were arrested March 31 , election day , while talking to voters in Norton .
Prosecutors accused them of reporting without government accreditation , an offense that carries a jail term of up to two years in prison .
Their lawyer argued they were in Zimbabwe on vacation .
A federal judge in New York has ordered the U.S. government to release more photographs of detainees being abused at Iraq 's Abu Ghraib prison .
In Thursday 's ruling , Judge Alvin Hellerstein rejected the government 's argument that the pictures would incite terrorists and provoke violence against U.S. troops .
He said terrorists do not need a pretext for their barbarism .
The decision calls for the release of 74 photographs and three videotapes .
The government has 20 days to appeal .
The American Civil Liberties Union ( ACLU ) , which filed a lawsuit seeking the release of the materials , hailed the decision as a step toward ensuring government leaders are held accountable for abuses that happened on their watch .
Several U.S. soldiers have been convicted and sent to prison for abusing detainees at Abu Ghraib , in the scandal that erupted last year after some photographs of their actions there were made public .
The international community has welcomed the decision by the Bosnian Serb parliament to approve creation of a unified police force for Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo Thursday called the move a significant step forward in moving Bosnia on the road to European integration .
Meanwhile , the top international mediator in Bosnia , Paddy Ashdown , said the decision ultimately will move the country toward European Union and NATO membership .
On Wednesday , the Bosnian Serb parliament , after long delays , approved merging the police of Bosnia 's Serb Republic with that of the country 's Muslim-Croat Federation , creating a multi-ethnic national force .
The European Union has made police reform a condition for possible Bosnian membership .
But many Bosnian Serbs say a unified force threatens their autonomy .
Delegates from more than 160 countries are meeting in Accra , Ghana , for a United Nations-sponsored meeting aimed at laying the groundwork for a new agreement to combat global warming .
Ghanaian President John Kufuor told participants Thursday that time is running out to finalize an agreement .
He added that Ghana is experiencing signs of climate change such as increased drought and flooding .
U.N. Climate Change Secretariat chief Yvo de Boer urged delegates to speed up the pace of negotiations .
The one-week meeting is part of a series of talks in the run-up to the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen next year .
The negotiations aim to create a successor deal to the Kyoto Protocol , which calls for reduced greenhouse gas emissions .
Delegates also will look at policies and incentives to reduce emissions from tropical deforestation , which is said to account for 20 percent of greenhouse gases .
Heavy fighting has broken out in a southern Somali city between gunmen loyal to two lawmakers in the country 's transitional government .
Witnesses say the battle in the city of Baidoa has left at least five dead .
They say the fighting continued after nightfall Saturday .
Residents say the fighting involved a militia commanded by Colonel Hassan Mohammed Shargudud and a group led by Mohamed Ibrahim Habsadeh .
The two lawmakers have disagreed about where in Somalia the new government should be located .
They also differ about whether to allow neighboring countries to take part in a peacekeeping force for Somalia .
A debate between lawmakers over the latter issue led to a brawl in Somalia 's parliament , which is currently based in Kenya .
Television footage showed lawmakers beating each other with walking sticks .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan has rejected charges by a United Nations human rights investigator that U.S.-led forces are illegally detaining and possibly torturing prisoners in the war-torn country .
The U.N.-appointed independent expert on human rights , Cherif Bassiouni , told journalists in Kabul foreign troops were arresting people without any legal process , detaining them , mistreating them and possibly torturing them .
But U.S. military officials rejected Mr. Bassiouni 's allegations , saying U.S.-led forces do not arrest people , they detain illegal combatants who pose a security threat for Afghans .
The officials said all detainees in U.S. custody are treated humanely , in the spirit of the Geneva Convention .
The U.S. military has come under criticism from rights groups for its methods at detention centers in Afghanistan .
A Sunday School teacher asked her class why Joseph and Mary took Jesus with them to Jerusalem .
A small child replied , " They could n't get a baby-sitter . "
Delegates from nearly 50 nations , including the United States , Britain , France , Germany and Russia , are set to attend an international anti-terror conference late this week in Saudi Arabia .
Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah is set to open the three-day gathering Saturday February 5 in Riyadh .
Organizers say the the conference will study ways to identify and eradicate the causes of global terrorism .
It will also focus on measures to combat money laundering , as well as drug and arms smuggling .
A Saudi statement says 14 Arab countries will attend , including Egypt , Yemen , Syria , Morocco , Jordan and Algeria .
The United Nations , the Organization of the Islamic Conference , the Arab League and the European Union head a list of international organizations set to attend .
Pakistan 's Meteorological Department says the country is facing a possible drought with no significant rain expected in the next two months .
Head of meteorology Qamar-uz Zaman Chaudhry told reporters in Islamabad Sunday that moderate drought conditions already exist in southwestern Baluchistan province and are likely to spread to other parts of the country .
Chaudhry said Pakistan had lower than average rain and snow last winter and he asked water management agencies to use the available water resources as judiciously as possible .
Meanwhile , in neighboring India , the meteorological department also predicted a " below normal " monsoon season .
The monsoon rains last from June to September and are a key factor in an agricultural economy .
But they also cause widespread floods , killing hundreds of people and leaving thousands homeless .
Police and Interior Ministry troops secure the government building in Bishkek after protesters stormed it Hundreds of police officers Saturday patrolled the grounds of Kyrgyzstan 's main government complex in Bishkek which was briefly occupied by protesters on Friday .
Troops used teargas and batons Friday to disperse a crowd that was demanding the inclusion of businessman Urmat Baryktabasov in next month 's presidential election .
Acting Deputy Prime Minister Daniar Usenov said the protesters were supporters of former president Askar Akayev , who fled to Moscow after an opposition uprising in March .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency reports Mr. Akayev 's attorney has issued a statement denying Mr. Akayev or his family had anything to do with Friday 's events in Bishkek .
Pakistani officials say fighting between Pakistani tribesmen and foreign militants on the Afghan border has killed at least seven militants .
A government official said Friday residents of Pakistan 's South Waziristan tribal region attacked a school Thursday used by Uzbek militants as a base in Ghawakha , a town near the regional capital , Wana .
The attack killed seven Uzbeks .
The two sides exchanged sporadic rocket and mortar fire Thursday , with some clashes continuing overnight .
Clashes in South Waziristan began in mid-March and erupted again Wednesday , violating a recent ceasefire agreement .
Pakistani authorities recently signed agreements with local tribal leaders for them to sever ties with foreign militants .
The foreign fighters are suspected of attacking NATO forces across the border in Afghanistan .
The tribes had been protecting militants who fled Afghanistan after the overthrow of the Taleban in late 2001 .
Pakistan says the recent clashes show its strategy is working .
The top U.S. diplomat for South Asian affairs has met Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani in Islamabad .
Officials have not commented on the meeting between U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Boucher and Mr. Gilani Monday , but the men were expected to discuss Pakistan 's fight against terrorism .
Boucher met Sunday with the chief minister of North West Frontier Province Amir Haider Khan Hoti .
During the meeting in Peshawar , the minister said he wanted to " resolve all political problems through peaceful dialogue . "
Pakistan has criticized the U.S. for carrying out missile strikes on suspected Taliban and al-Qaida militants along the Pakistani border with Afghanistan .
The United States has been pushing Pakistan to take stronger action against the militants .
Washington says the fighters are using Pakistan as a base to attack U.S. and Afghan troops in Afghanistan .
U.S. troops have reportedly rescued a member of a U.S. Special Forces unit missing in eastern Afghanistan since Tuesday .
Quoting unidentified U.S. officials , Western media said the soldier who managed to evade the enemy for almost a week was rescued Sunday and is in good shape .
There has been no word on the fate of the other members of the unit .
A helicopter going to their rescue was shot down on June 28 , killing all 16 troops on board .
Also Sunday , suspected Taleban insurgents killed a pro-government Islamic cleric in southern Afghanistan .
Local officials say Mawlavi Mohammad Nabi Masah was ambushed as he was leaving home near Kandahar city .
He later died of his wounds at the U.S. military hospital in Kandahar .
British police have arrested a man in connection with a suicide bomb attack on U.S.-led coalition forces in Iraq .
Officials in the northern city of Manchester Tuesday said the 40-year-old detainee shared a home with a French national believed to have died during an attack on coalition forces in February 2005 .
No further details are available , but a police spokesman stressed the dawn raid was not linked to any threat or risk of violence in Britain .
Security officials say Iraqi militants have been recruiting fighters in several European countries to join the insurgency against U.S.-led forces and the new government in Baghdad .
The arrest in Britain comes less than a week after police in Germany and Spain arrested 14 militants suspected of ties with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi - the terrorist leader blamed for many of the bloodiest attacks in Iraq .
Sri Lankan police say two men have been shot dead in the country 's northeast as negotiations are under way to stop a return of civil war to the country .
Authorities said one of the men killed Tuesday was an ethnic Tamil journalist who was shot in Trincomalee .
The French news agency describes the other victim as a public servant who was shot in another part of the city .
Police have not identified the attackers in either incident .
A series of ambushes has killed about 70 military personnel since December .
Meanwhile , Tamil rebels blame the military for abuses that have killed dozens of Tamil civilians and rebels .
Diplomats from Norway ( peace envoy Erik Solheim ) and the United States ( Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Nicholas Burns ) are in Sri Lanka trying to preserve a fragile peace between the government and rebels .
Israeli authorities have agreed to release an ultra-Orthodox woman detained on suspicion of child abuse , in a move that may end days of rioting in the capital .
An Israeli court Friday agreed to allow the woman to stay at the home of a rabbi , under the condition that she undergo psychiatric evaluation and pay a $ 100,000 bail .
The woman is accused of starving her three-year-old child to a weight of seven kilograms .
Her arrest sparked violent protests in Jerusalem by ultra-Orthodox Jews who defend the woman and accuse authorities of persecuting the religious community .
Religious riots flared last month when the city decided to keep a parking lot open on Saturdays .
Orthodox Jews condemned the move as a desecration of the Sabbath .
The violence has angered secular Jews who describe Israel as a modern , democratic country where religion is a choice .
Mexico 's top public security official has been killed in a helicopter crash .
Mexican President Vicente Fox said Wednesday that Public Security Minister Ramon Martin Huerta was killed when the Bell-412 helicopter in which he was traveling crashed in mountains near the capital .
At least seven other people on board , including Federal Preventive Police chief Tomas Valencia , were also killed .
Authorities say Mr. Martin Huerta and Mr. Valencia were traveling from Mexico City to a ceremony at the maximum security La Palma prison when the helicopter lost radio contact with the ground .
Conditions were said to be cloudy with limited visibility .
Mr. Huerta was a close aide to President Fox and a key figure in the government 's anti-drug efforts .
Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora is in Syria for talks with President Bashar al-Assad on how to repair strained ties .
Mr. Siniora was met at the border Sunday by his Syrian counterpart Mohammed Naji Otari before heading to Damascus to meet the president .
The visit is the first by a senior Lebanese official since Syria lost its military grip over Beirut .
Mr. Siniora 's trip comes one day after his government won a vote of confidence in parliament .
The prime minister is in Damascus to discuss improving relations , which soured after Syrian troops pulled out of Lebanon in April , ending a 29-year military presence .
Mr. Siniora has said good relations with Syria are crucial to Lebanon 's future .
He also is expected to discuss Syria 's decision to block Lebanese trucks at the border , which Damascus says is for security reasons .
Rebels in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region say pro-government militias have attacked the area 's main town , El-Fasher .
Rebels say the Arab militia , called " Janjaweed , " began looting the city 's market on Monday .
A former rebel leader who is now a presidential adviser , Minni Minnawi , said the situation is critical .
He said a peace deal his rebel faction signed with the government in May could be in jeopardy if such attacks are not stopped .
Minnawi 's Sudan Liberation Army was the only one of three Darfur rebel groups to sign the peace deal .
The agreement , however , has done little to stop the fighting .
More than two million people are estimated to have been displaced and at least 200,000 killed since Darfur rebels rose up in 2003 , sparking retaliation from Janjaweed militias .
The militias are accused of carrying out atrocities against villagers .
Four Pakistani soldiers have been killed in gun battles between security forces and al-Qaida-linked militants in mountains near the border with Afghanistan .
A military spokesman says the battles took place after army helicopter gunships began pounding a suspected militant hideout in the North Waziristan tribal region late on Thursday , following an earlier clash with militants .
He says besides the four deaths , several Pakistani soldiers were wounded .
The militants were also believed to have suffered heavy casualties .
Pakistan has been trying to clear its semi-autonomous tribal areas on the Afghan border of militants for the past two years .
Hundreds of militants and Pakistani soldiers have been killed in clashes .
Many al-Qaida militants and their Taleban allies were believed to have slipped into Pakistan after U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban government in Afghanistan four years ago .
A top Chinese official says suspected militants captured and killed by police in January were planning a terrorist attack on this year 's Beijing Olympics .
Wang Lequan , the top Communist Party official in the western region of Xinjiang , told reporters Sunday that materials seized in the January 27 raid in the regional capital of Urumqi showed the gang had plotted to sabotage the Olympics .
Wang was speaking on the sidelines of China 's national parliamentary session in Beijing .
He provided few details of the alleged plot , but said the goal of the gang was very clear .
China has been fighting a low-level insurgency against Muslim separatists from the Xinjiang region 's Uighur population .
China says U.S. proposals aimed at regulating Chinese textile imports to the United States threaten Beijing 's textile industry .
An editorial in Friday 's official China Daily newspaper says " things would not have become so discouraging had it not been for the U.S. insistence on terms that , as seen by the Chinese , contain too few incentives . "
The editorial says it seems the only possible future scenario is " no solution at all . "
The latest round of textile trade talks between the U.S. and China ended Thursday without an agreement .
The United States is considering further limitations on textile imports from China .
Since global textile quotas ended January 1 , Chinese exports to the United States have surged .
U.S. textile manufacturers want the government to continue limits on Chinese products through 2008 .
An international relief agency says months of chronic drought and food shortages in Kenya have led to violent clashes between nomadic tribes .
Oxfam International says the tribes are fighting over declining water and grazing resources .
In a recent incident , more than 30 people died when nomads from neighboring Ethiopia carried out a raid in northeastern Kenya .
There have also been reports of violence between Kenya 's Turkana tribe and the Karamajong tribe of neighboring Uganda .
The Kenyan government says possibly four million people are facing severe food shortages .
Scores of people and thousands of livestock have already perished from starvation and other related illnesses .
Oxfam says the crisis in Kenya risks " turning into a catastrophe " unless relief efforts are increased .
Lebanon 's parliament has again delayed holding a session to elect a new president , postponing the vote for the 13th time .
Speaker Nabih Berri announced Sunday the poll , originally scheduled for Monday , now will be held February 11 .
Parliament 's ruling pro-Western majority and pro-Syrian opposition factions have agreed on an Arab League-supported plan to install army chief Michel Suleiman as president .
But the factions remain divided over a power-sharing deal in the new government .
The Gallup World Poll recently released details of a massive survey of more than 50,000 Muslims , reflecting the views of more than one billion Muslims in more than 35 countries .
It is said to be the largest , most comprehensive study of its kind .
The survey conducted during a six year period posed a series of questions relating to Muslim views about the United States , extremism and democracy .
VOA 's Mohamed Elshinnawi has the results of the poll .
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock .
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain ; the straggler paid no attention to the summons .
At last the Goatherd threw a stone , and breaking its horn , begged the Goat not to tell his master .
The Goat replied , " Why , you silly fellow , the horn will speak though I be silent . "
Do not attempt to hide things which can not be hid .
Thousands of Iraqi Shi'ites took to the streets of the country 's second largest city Friday to show their support for the new draft constitution .
The rally in Basra was organized by the two main Shi'ite political parties -
The Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq and the Dawa Party - in advance of the October 15 national referendum .
Demonstrators also condemned Wednesday 's stampede in Baghdad that killed hundreds of Shi'ite pilgrims during a religious procession .
Funerals continued Friday for the victims , as the government began an investigation into the tragedy .
Meanwhile , in the Sunni Arab heartland of western Iraq , protesters demonstrated against the constitution , which they fear will lead to the physical break-up of Iraq .
And the U.S. military says three American soldiers have been killed in central Iraq since Wednesday .
The World Economic Forum has listed Switzerland as having the world 's most competitive economy , replacing the United States .
In its annual report , the Geneva-based research institution Tuesday praised Switzerland 's highly sophisticated business culture and its laws protecting intellectual property .
Finland , Sweden and Denmark ranked second , third and fourth .
The survey said the three Scandinavian nations all have budget surpluses and low levels of public debt .
Singapore led Asian nations in competitiveness , ranking fifth .
The United States fell from the top position to sixth .
The forum said growing trade imbalances hurt Washington 's economic standing .
Japan , Germany , the Netherlands and Britain rounded out the top 10 .
The World Economic Forum rates 125 countries based on a variety of factors - including market efficiency , education and training , innovation , infrastructure and technological development .
European stock markets are sharply higher in midday trading Monday .
London 's Financial Times 100 index was up 167 points ( 4.4 percent ) , to 3,948 .
The CAC-40 in Paris was up 130 points ( 4.5 percent ) , to 3011 .
And the DAX in Frankfurt was up 147 points ( 3.6 percent ) , at 4274 .
The S&P futures contract was up 13 points , indicating a higher opening for U.S. markets .
In Asia , Tokyo markets were closed for a national holiday .
They will reopen Tuesday .
In Hong Kong , the Hang Seng index dropped 201 points ( 1.6 percent ) , to close at 12,458 .
Gold was trading at $ 816.31 an ounce .
The U.S. dollar was steady against other major currencies .
Colombian officials say Bogota and Washington have resolved differences on the wording of a free trade deal reached earlier this year .
Colombian Trade Minister Jorge Botero said Friday negotiators had resolved all remaining concerns related to sugar , chicken and other farm products .
Botero said the free trade agreement could be signed by President Bush and Colombian President Alvaro Uribe as early as October .
Once signed , the accord would have to be approved by legislators in both countries .
The agreement has its critics .
Blaming free trade negotiations between Bogota and Washington , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez in April pulled his country out of the Andean Community of Nations .
The group is a trade bloc comprising Colombia , Ecuador , Bolivia and Peru .
Neighboring Israel has a blockade on Gaza , and Egypt restricts movement across its border with the Hamas-controlled territory Health officials in the Gaza Strip confirmed the territory 's first five cases of swine flu on Sunday .
The territory 's Health Ministry is working with the World Health Organization to obtain the supplies needed to treat the potentially deadly virus .
Neighboring Israel has a blockade on Gaza , and Egypt restricts movement across its border with the Hamas-controlled territory .
Health officials say that isolation likely kept the H1N1 virus from affecting the coastal territory sooner .
Israel imposed a blockade on Gaza after the Islamic militant group Hamas seized control of the territory in 2007 , pushing out forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende has visited a mosque following a wave of attacks on Muslim and Christian sites in the Netherlands .
Mr. Balkenende stressed the need for dialogue between communities as he marked the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
He was given a bunch of tulips as a symbol that Muslims feel at home in the Netherlands .
The day before , fire destroyed a small mosque in the town of Helden .
There have been more than 20 incidents of arson and vandalism this month at mosques and churches in the Netherlands .
The attacks followed the murder of a Dutch filmmaker by a suspected Muslim extremist .
Meanwhile , German President Horst Koehler marked the end of Ramadan with a message urging people in Germany to treat each other with respect and tolerance .
Authorities in Rwanda have released some 8,000 prisoners accused of involvement in the country 's 1994 genocide .
The mass release Monday was part of a planned government initiative to ease crowding in the prison system and promote national reconcilation .
Officials emphasized that no leaders of the genocide were freed .
However , some genocide survivors have expressed anger at the release program .
They say those set free sometimes murder others in order to destroy evidence related to their alleged role in the killings .
Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and politically-moderate Hutus in the 1994 genocide .
The Rwandan government has freed a total of 60,000 genocide suspects since 2003 .
While Republicans gathered for their convention in St. Paul Tuesday , former Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul held a rally across the Mississippi River in the city of Minneapolis , challenging Republicans to re-evaluate their ideals .
VOA 's Greg Flakus reports from Minneapolis , some supporters hope Paul 's libertarian movement may someday evolve into a third political party .
Chinese President Hu Jintao and his Russia counterpart , Vladimir Putin , have pledged to strengthen bilateral ties this year by promoting cultural exchanges between their countries .
China 's official Xinhua news agency reports Monday the two leaders made the pledge as they exchanged greetings New Year 's Eve .
China has designated 2006 as the " Year of Russia " , and Mr. Hu promised to make the program a complete success .
Russia will hold a similar series of cultural events known as the " Year of China " in 2007 .
Mr. Hu says China and Russia have a joint responsibility to maintain peace and stability in the world .
The two countries have improved their relations in recent years , especially on regional security issues .
President Bush is expected to attend a popular music concert near the White House later Wednesday , as part of a series of special events leading up to his inauguration for a second four-year term on Thursday .
The concert , dubbed " A Celebration Of Freedom , " is one of several receptions , dances and other events related to the inauguration taking place this week in Washington .
On Tuesday , the president spoke at an event honoring the military .
He said he is grateful for the troops ' service and that he is proud to be their commander-in-chief .
Workers are preparing the city for the hundreds of thousands of people expected to attend the inauguration ceremony and parade .
Some 6,000 law enforcement officers and thousands of U.S. troops will provide security .
Officials in Turkey say two Kurdish rebels and one Turkish soldier have been killed in clashes in southeastern Turkey .
The sources say two other soldiers were wounded in Tuesday 's fighting near the town of Genc in Bingol province .
Turkey has stepped up military operations against rebels from the outlawed Kurdistan Worker 's Party , or PKK , inside Turkey and in northern Iraq this year .
Also Tuesday , the Turkish military provided more information about two days of cross-border bombings last week .
A military statement said 43 fighter jets pounded PKK rebel positions in northern Iraq on Friday and Saturday .
The military did not provide casualty figures .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast for nearly 25 years .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
Venezuelan soldiers have destroyed at least 68 hectares of drug crops and at least two cocaine processing laboratories , in a crackdown on illegal drug production .
Government officials said Wednesday they used satellite imagery to locate the plantations of coca plants , opium poppies , and marijuana near the Colombian border .
Anti-drug officials say Venezuela serves as a major transit route for drug traffickers , with much of the contraband originating in neighboring Colombia .
U.S. and Venezuelan officials had been collaborating in the fight against illegal drugs until this year , when Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez accused U.S. drug agents of spying on his government and suspended cooperation with them .
The United States later added Venezuela to a list of nations it says are failing to fight drug trafficking effectively .
Health officials from across Southeast Asia are participating in a unique five-day exercise to see how well they would respond to a pandemic in a fictional continent called " Pandemica . "
The ASEAN-led exercise , which began Monday in Phnom Penh , Cambodia , is the first of its kind .
It also involves the World Health Organization and other U.N. agencies and has funding from the U.S. Agency for International Development .
Officials say the exercise deals not only with the health consequences of a pandemic .
Participants are also practicing how they would maintain essential services such as energy and mass transport in the face of widespread illness .
The region was hard-hit by SARS in 2003 and by a human form of bird flu in 2004 .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana has started a Middle East tour focused on easing political tensions in Lebanon .
Solana arrived Monday in Beirut , where we will confer with Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and the speaker of parliament , Nabih Berri .
On Tuesday , Solana travels to Saudi Arabia , and he is due in Syria Wednesday for talks with President Bashar al-Assad .
He is expected to urge the Syrian leader to take a constructive role with the EU in the region , particularly in Lebanon .
Solana will be the highest level EU official to visit Damascus in two years , following the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri .
A U.N. investigation implicated Syrian and Lebanese security officials in the killing .
Syria supports the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah , which is trying to oust Prime Minister Siniora 's pro-Western government .
Syria denies any involvement .
Iraqi police say at least 25 people were wounded when three car bombs exploded in quick succession in the northern city of Kirkuk .
The bombs went off early Saturday in the Kurdish area of the ethnically diverse city , which is at the center of a dispute between Arabs , Turkmen and Kurds .
Kirkuk lies in the heart of Iraq 's oil-rich northern region , 240 kilometers north of Baghdad .
Tensions have been increased among ethnic groups by Kurdish efforts to incorporate the city into their semi-autonomous region .
Iraq 's main Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish factions have bee trying to reach an agreement on forming a new government .
The country has been stuck in a political deadlock since March elections .
On Friday , Iraq delayed Monday 's scheduled parliament session to elect a speaker until later in the week .
Somali insurgents have stepped up attacks in the capital , Mogadishu , killing at least one person and wounding more than 11 others , hours after a police chief in the south was shot dead .
Witnesses in Mogadishu say a barrage of mortar shells crashed down into several areas of the city Sunday as insurgents continued to fight Ethiopian and government troops .
Violence in the capital has been increasing since Somalia 's interim government drove out a rival Islamist movement late last year with the help of Ethiopian troops .
Meanwhile , in the southern port town of Kismayo , a Somali police chief , Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle leading a crackdown on insurgents , was killed by one of his bodyguards .
Witnesses to the attack Saturday night say the motive was not immediately clear .
Syria has reported its first confirmed case of the swine influenza A-H1N1 virus .
Syrian health officials said Saturday the case was detected in a Syrian woman who flew to the country from Australia earlier this week .
Officials say the woman is being treated .
The World Health Organization said Friday nearly 90,000 cases of swine flu have now been confirmed worldwide , including more than 380 deaths .
The WHO recently declared the first pandemic in more than 40 years because of the way the virus has spread around the globe .
On Friday , Japan and Hong Kong each identified more cases of the swine influenza A-H1N1 virus that are resistant to the key anti-viral drug Tamiflu .
Denmark reported the first such case earlier this week .
The company that makes Tamiflu ( Swiss drug maker Roche ) says about half of one percent of all flu cases are resistant to the drug .
Turkish media say police have detained more than 30 people in a widening investigation of an alleged attempt to overthrow the government .
The Anatolia news agency says police made the arrests Wednesday in raids across the nation .
Among those detained are retired senior military officials , a retired police chief and a pro-secular writer .
In October , prosecutors charged 86 people as part of the probe into the ultra-nationalist organization known as Ergenekon .
Those on trial include retired army officers , leftist politicians and journalists .
Prosecutors accuse them of planning assassinations and bombings to sow chaos in Turkey , forcing the army to step in and overthrow the elected Islamic-rooted government .
The trial has highlighted tensions between Turkey 's ruling party and the country 's secular elite .
The investigation began in mid-2007 with the discovery of an arms cache in an Istanbul suburb .
Four Afghan policemen and one American soldier have been killed in separate attacks by suspected Taleban insurgents in Afghanistan .
Officials say the policemen were killed when insurgents ambushed a regional police chief 's convoy in southern Helmand province , Tuesday .
They say the police chief , Shadi Khan of Deshu district was not hurt .
The U.S. military says the American soldier died when insurgents fired on a military patrol in central Uruzgan province Tuesday .
A statement said the soldier was pronounced dead after being evacuated to a U.S. base for emergency medical treatment .
Taleban militants have stepped up attacks on U.S. and Afghan troops in recent weeks as weather conditions in Afghanistan have improved .
Pakistani military officials say a roadside bomb has killed two soldiers and wounded another in a restive tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
Officials told reporters Sunday the blast occurred Saturday while the soldiers were on routine patrol in the North Waziristan region near the Afghan border .
There has been no claim of responsibility . .
Pakistani forces have been battling Islamic militants in the area for some time .
Tension has been building for months in North Waziristan since the Pakistani army completed a series of offensives against al-Qaida militants and their supporters in neighboring South Waziristan .
In July , Pakistani , U.S. and Afghan forces reported killing more than 60 suspected foreign militants and Taleban insurgents in a series of clashes in the region .
Russia 's giant natural gas firm says it will sharply increase the price it charges Ukraine because negotiations on the matter have dragged on for nine months .
Gazprom Deputy Chairman Alexander Medvedev says the company plans to charge Ukraine a market rate of up to $ 230 per 1,000 cubic meters .
Ukraine currently pays $ 50 in exchange for allowing the transit of Russian natural gas through its territory .
Officials from Ukraine 's Naftogaz energy company call the latest price estimates unacceptable .
Russia initially wanted to charge Ukraine $ 160 , but says that is no longer possible because of changing market situations .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko says the gas prices should not be used as a form of political pressure .
He says Ukraine charges much less for transit than either Poland and Germany .
The Iranian news agency says President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has told lawmakers that 16 years of détente with the West has achieved little and has reduced Iran 's stature in the Islamic world .
The news agency quotes lawmaker Kazem Jalali as saying the hard-line president 's remarks came Tuesday , in a closed-door meeting with parliament 's Foreign Policy and National Security Committee .
Pragmatic conservative Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was Iran 's president from 1989 to 1997 .
He was succeeded by pro-reformist Mohammad Khatami , who was defeated in June .
According to witnesses , Mr. Ahmadinejad said that the foreign policy adopted by his predecessors distanced Iran from the goals of the 1979 Islamic Revolution .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was elected in 2005 on a platform of restoring revolutionary values .
His performance has come under harsh foreign criticism for repeated remarks disparaging Israel and Western governments .
Critics have also accused him of leading Iran toward international isolation .
Al-Jazeera television is reporting that al-Qaida 's North African branch has claimed responsibility for the murder of an American aid worker in Mauritania this week .
The Arab satellite television station reported Thursday that it received an audio statement from al-Qaida of the Islamic Maghreb .
The network said group claimed it killed 39-year-old Christopher Leggett for allegedly trying to convert Muslims to Christianity .
The terrorist group was quoted as saying " two knights of the Islamic Maghreb " killed Christopher Leggett " for his Christianizing activities . "
The statement could not be independently verified .
Witnesses said gunmen shot Leggett , a husband and father of four children , multiple times Tuesday in the capital of Nouakchott .
Friends said Leggett worked for an aid group that provided computer classes for local residents .
U.S. oil prices dipped below $ 59 a barrel Tuesday , as traders debated whether OPEC will officially cut its crude oil production .
U.S. sweet crude for November delivery sold as low as $ 58.95 a barrel .
That is a 25 percent drop from the all-time high of $ 78.40 in July .
It has been widely rumored that OPEC nations will reduce production by one million barrels .
But analysts say OPEC has not decided if it will formally cut oil production to help stabilize prices .
OPEC 's official daily output quota has stood at 28 million barrels since 2004 .
Analysts say the group has actually been supplying about 27.5 million barrels a day .
Liberia 's government says it has charged the country 's former transitional leader , Gyude Bryant , with embezzling $ 1.3 million while in office .
Liberia 's information minister tells VOA an investigation revealed that Mr. Bryant failed to account for the funds during his tenure , from October 2003 to January 2006 .
Mr. Bryant denies embezzlement and says he is prepared to fight the allegation in court .
Liberia 's former warring factions chose Mr. Bryant to lead a transitional government in 2003 as part of a peace agreement .
He was succeeded by Liberia 's current elected president , Ellen Johnson Sirleaf , in January 2006 .
In a speech to the nation Monday , President Sirleaf promised to prosecute anyone involved in corruption in her government or in previous administrations .
The Liberian information minister says the indictment of Mr. Bryant will put corrupt officials on notice .
Viktor Yushchenko
Ukraine 's President Viktor Yushchenko has signed a decree ordering his country 's troops to be withdrawn from Iraq by the end of the year .
Ukraine started a phased pullout of its more than 1,600 troops in March .
Last week , Mr. Yushchenko held talks in Washington with President Bush .
Mr. Bush thanked Ukraine for its contribution in Iraq , and said he understands Mr. Yushchenko 's need to fulfill a pledge to have the troops return home .
A number of Ukrainian troops have been injured and 18 have been killed in Iraq .
Many Ukrainians oppose the deployment in Iraq .
An explosion in southern Lebanon has killed a senior Palestinian official and at least three other people .
Lebanese and Palestinian security officials say the blast hit a car carrying Fatah official Medhat Kamal outside the Mieh Mieh refugee camp , near the coastal city of Sidon .
Kamal , who was killed , was a deputy to the Palestinian Liberation Organization , PLO , representative in Lebanon .
In Zanzibar , the ruling and opposition parties have accused each other of instigating election-related violence that left at least 15 people injured .
A spokesman for the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi ( CCM ) says opposition supporters provoked the violence by throwing stones at a crowd of ruling party supporters .
But a Civic United Front ( CUF ) official says followers of the ruling party sparked the unrest , hurting 10 opposition supporters .
Authorities say the violence on Tanzania 's semi-autonomous island erupted late Sunday after separate campaign rallies by the ruling and opposition parties .
Island residents go the polls October 30 for Tanzania 's general elections .
The opposition CUF lost to the ruling party in 1995 and 2000 in Zanzibar and complained of fraud during both elections .
A U.S. Congressman visiting North Korea says he will discuss the Stalinist regime 's nuclear program and human rights issues during talks with Pyongyang officials .
Congressman Tom Lantos , a Democrat from California , told reporters during a stopover in Beijing Saturday that he would discuss the North 's nuclear program , human rights matters , and hopefully , their reintegration into the international community .
Mr. Lantos ' four-day visit comes ahead of a separate visit next week by a delegation of U.S. lawmakers headed by Republican Congressman Curt Weldon .
Mr. Lantos was a sponsor of the North Korean Human Rights Act enacted last October , which budgets $ 24 million a year for North Korea refugees .
North Korea angrily condemned the legislation as proof of Washington 's intent to topple the communist nation .
The U.S. military says it killed 15 to 20 suspected Taleban fighters in an airstrike after they attacked coalition forces in southern Afghanistan .
The military says no coalition forces were wounded in the Sunday incident in Hekmand province .
It says U.S. warplanes and attack helicopters were called in after the U.S.-led troops came under small arms and rocked fire .
Also Sunday , Taleban militants said they executed a district police chief and seven others who were abducted in southern Afghanistan .
They say the chief was killed on orders from the group 's religious leaders , while the other seven were tried and executed for supporting the U.S.-backed Kabul government .
Taleban militants also fired at least three rockets into Kandahar early Sunday , but no one was injured .
The U.S. Navy is investigating claims Marines killed up to 10 unarmed Iraqi captives during a battle in Fallujah in 2004 .
Military officials say the criminal probe centers on several members of the Marine Corp 's Kilo company .
Different members of the company have also been accused of the deaths of 24 civilians in Haditha , Iraq in 2005 .
The latest investigation began when former Marine Ryan Weemer asked during a polygraph test for a job with the U.S. Secret Service , if he had participated in a wrongful death .
The Secret Service reported the allegations to the Naval Criminal Investigation Service ( NCIS ) .
An account of Weemer 's story was published online at DefendOurMarines.com by Vietnam veteran Nat Helms who wrote a book on the Marine Corp 's battle for Fallujah .
An Israeli airstrike has killed two Palestinian militants in Gaza City .
The strike Tuesday is the latest in a recent series of Israeli attacks against Palestinian militants in Gaza believed to be connected to rocket attacks on Israeli targets .
The two al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades members killed bring to nine the number of militants killed in Israeli airstrikes since Saturday .
Earlier Tuesday , a Palestinian militant was killed and two Israeli soldiers were wounded in a gunbattle in the West Bank town of Nablus .
Palestinian witnesses say the dead man was a local commander of the Islamic Jihad militant group .
The violence comes as leaders of the Palestinian militant group Hamas are in Cairo discussing the formation of a new Palestinian government .
Jordan 's economy is among the smallest in the Middle East , with insufficient supplies of water , oil , and other natural resources , underlying the government 's heavy reliance on foreign assistance .
Other economic challenges for the government include chronic high rates of poverty , unemployment , inflation , and a large budget deficit .
Since assuming the throne in 1999 , King ABDALLAH has implemented significant economic reforms , such as opening the trade regime , privatizing state-owned companies , and eliminating most fuel subsidies , which in the past few years have spurred economic growth by attracting foreign investment and creating some jobs .
The global economic slowdown , however , has depressed Jordan 's GDP growth .
Export-oriented sectors such as manufacturing , mining , and the transport of re-exports have been hit the hardest .
The Government approved two supplementary budgets in 2010 , but sweeping tax cuts planned for 2010 did not materialize because of Amman 's need for additional revenue to cover excess spending .
The budget deficit is likely to remain high , at 5-6 % of GDP , and Amman likely will continue to depend heavily on foreign assistance to finance the deficit in 2011 .
Jordan 's financial sector has been relatively isolated from the international financial crisis because of its limited exposure to overseas capital markets .
Jordan is currently exploring nuclear power generation to forestall energy shortfalls .
The fundraising effort led by former U.S. presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton has raised more than $ 96 million for Hurricane Katrina victims .
A statement from the Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund says $ 90 million came from corporate contributions and large gifts from individuals .
It says the remaining $ 6 million came through online donations from some 37,000 people .
Mr. Clinton said the American people have once again shown their great capacity to come to the aid of people in need .
Mr. Bush , father of the current president , called the effort to rebuild after Katrina " a massive undertaking . "
Money from the fund will go to the states of Louisiana , Mississippi , and Alabama , as well as relief organizations .
U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist has rejected a call from rival Democrats to phase out American troops from Iraq this year .
Frist said pulling out of Iraq is not an option .
He made the comment Tuesday as the Senate resumed debate on the government 's defense authorization bill .
Opposition Senate Democrats have drafted a non-binding resolution urging the withdrawal to begin this year .
Senator Richard Durbin , the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate , said the Iraqis must be responsible for their own future .
Majority Leader Frist has accused Democrats of having a " cut and run " strategy that threatens national security and poses unacceptable risks to Americans .
The Democratic measure is not expected to receive the 51 votes needed to attach it to the defense bill .
Last week , lawmakers in both houses of the Republican-led Congress rejected timetables for withdrawing from Iraq .
Iraqi forces , supported by American troops , have launched a major offensive against insurgents in the northwestern city of Tal Afar , and the government has warned it is ready to go after terrorists in four other cities .
Days of clashes and U.S. airstrikes preceded the offensive , which began early Saturday .
Many of Tal Afar 's ethnic Turkmen residents had already fled ahead of the fighting .
Defense Minister Saadoun al-Dulaimi said troops had killed 141 insurgents and captured nearly 200 in the city .
He also warned the residents of Ramadi , Samarra , Rawa and Qaim that their cities would be next , saying " there will be no refuge for the terrorists , criminals and bloodsuckers . "
Meanwhile , south of Baghdad , in Iskandariya , police discovered the bodies of 18 men , who had been handcuffed and executed .
Human rights group Amnesty International has condemned Haiti for alleged police brutality .
The London-based group issued a report Thursday accusing police of serious human rights violations , including illegal detentions , abuse of detainees and summary executions .
The report urged Haiti 's interim government and United Nations peacekeepers to investigate the charges .
The allegations against Haitian police officers come amid continuing violence in the Caribbean country .
Since late September , at least 75 people have been killed in violence in Haiti 's capital , Port-au-Prince , between supporters and opponents of former Haitian president Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
The ousted president has been in exile in South Africa since February , when he fled a bloody revolt in Haiti .
Wednesday , the 15-nation Caribbean Community ( Caricom ) condemned human rights conditions in Haiti .
The U.S. military says 12 suspected militants and a woman have been killed in a U.S. raid on a house near Baghdad .
A military statement says U.S. soldiers killed five terrorists outside the house in Yusefiyah before calling for an air strike .
Troops later searched the destroyed house and found the bodies of seven more terrorists and the woman .
The statement says each of the dead men wore magazine vests and carried two hand grenades .
In Baghdad , police Wednesday say they found four bodies with gunshot wounds to their heads and showing signs of torture .
To the south , police in Karbala said six bodies were found on the outskirts of the town .
Authorities say all six had been tortured and shot .
At least three people have been killed in separate explosions in Iraq as U.S. and Iraqi forces continue to battle insurgents .
Authorities say at least one person was killed Thursday in an explosion in western Baghdad .
Two other people died in an explosion in the northern Iraqi town of Kirkuk .
On Wednesday , violence in parts of Iraq 's so-called " Sunni Triangle " left dozens of people dead -- as insurgents reacted to the U.S. military campaign in Fallujah .
In the northern Iraqi city of Baiji , at least 14 people were killed when a suicide bomber rammed his car into a U.S. military convoy .
In the city of Ramadi , at least nine people were killed during intense fighting between insurgent forces and U.S. troops .
The fighting came as U.S.-led coalition forces continued their offensive to root out remaining Iraqi insurgents in Fallujah .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says an upcoming U.S. conference is a historic opportunity for peace with Israel .
Mr. Abbas made the comment in a speech to tens of thousands of Palestinians in the West Bank city of Ramallah to mark the third anniversary of the death of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
He vowed to work toward success at the conference .
Israelis and Palestinians have been working to bridge differences ahead of the meeting .
The Palestinians have been pressing for a detailed joint document addressing core issues , while the Israelis favor a general declaration of principles .
Mr. Abbas also called on Hamas to hand back control of the Gaza Strip , which the group seized in June .
On Saturday , the Palestinian president inaugurated a mausoleum in Ramallah for Mr. Arafat .
Germany and France have offered to jointly host NATO 's 60th anniversary summit next year at two sites near the Franco-German border .
German government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm said the two governments will formally make the offer during this week 's NATO summit in the Romanian capital .
As proposed , the 2009 meeting in Strasbourg and the nearby German town of Kehl would mark the first time a NATO summit would be hosted by more than one country .
Wilhelm said the proposal is meant to underscore the importance of German-French friendship and of NATO 's role in European post-World War II reconciliation .
Energy prices are changing the way people live around the world .
For many Americans who bought large houses outside major cities , high energy prices are forcing a lifestyle change .
Jeff Swicord reports on one family in the outer suburbs of Washington D.C. that is rethinking the choices they made .
Many people around the world are using the Internet to express their opinions without the fear of censorship .
This Internet blogosphere has become especially attractive to some American Muslims who are using the Internet to share their views with fellow Muslims .
VOA 's Imran Siddiqui profiles one Internet blogger whose writings recently gained national attention .
Ruth Reader narrates .
NATO says it may have killed a senior Taleban leader and his deputies with an airstrike along southern Afghanistan 's border with Pakistan .
A statement from the alliance says the strike completely destroyed the targeted compound Thursday in Helmand province .
NATO did not identify the Taleban members believed to be inside .
In the same province , a suicide bomber blew himself up Friday after security forces shot and wounded him outside a U.S.-funded aid office .
The bomb blast wounded at least one other person .
Last month , in Helmand province , a U.S. airstrike killed Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Osmani , the Taleban 's chief of military operations , who was also a close associate of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
A group of 15 African leaders have signed an agreement pledging to promote peace and security in Africa 's Great Lakes region .
The leaders gathered in the Tanzanian capital , Dar Es Salaam Saturday to sign the framework agreement , as part of a two-day summit organized by the United Nations and the African Union .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , who attended the signing , says the document gives the region a chance for peace , stability and development .
Under the agreement , the leaders pledge to disarm rebels , prevent the flow of arms , and improve security in the region .
Africa 's volatile Great Lakes region includes the Democratic Republic of Congo , Rwanda and Burundi , where millions of people have died or been displaced by long-running conflicts and genocide killings over the past decade .
Iraqi police said a car bomb attack south of Baghdad has killed at least 12 people and wounded at least 40 others .
Police said the bomb exploded Thursday in a crowded livestock market on the outskirts of Hilla , in Babil province .
The blast came one day after a suicide bomber killed three people and wounded at least 10 others in central Baghdad .
Meanwhile , The Associated Press reported a roadside bomb struck a car in southwestern Baghdad , killing a member of the government-backed Sunni group .
Three other people were wounded in the attack .
Also , police said gunmen in Baghdad have shot and wounded a police general , Salaam Salman .
Violence in Iraq has dropped sharply over the past year , but the security situation remains fragile .
The U.S. military has been transferring security responsibilities to the Iraqi government , with U.S. forces scheduled to withdraw from the country by 2011 .
Turkish officials say two soldiers and a government-paid village guard were killed in a clash with Kurdish rebels .
They say the fighting erupted in Sirnak province late Saturday .
At least three other soldiers have been killed since Friday , including one who was killed by a landmine .
The Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , has been fighting Turkey for autonomy since 1984 .
The conflict has claimed more than 37,000 lives .
The group called for a ceasefire in October , but Turkey rejected it .
Spanish singer Alejandro Sanz 's " Tu No Tienes Alma " was honored for record of the year and song of the year at the sixth annual Latin Grammy awards held in Los Angeles Thursday .
The event was broadcast live in Spanish for the first time over the Univision television network .
The English-language CBS network had carried the awards show in previous years , but dropped it due to sagging ratings .
Alternative singer-songwriter Bebe , from Spain won the grammy for best new artist for the album Malo .
Gian Marco took home the award for best singer-songwriter album for Resucitar .
Marc Anthony was also honored for his salsa album Valió La Pena , and Elvis Crespo won best merengue album for Saboréalo .
An Indian court has convicted another man in connection with a series of bomb attacks in Mumbai ( formerly known as Bombay ) that killed 257 people more than a decade ago .
The court ruled Thursday that the man was guilty of handling explosives and weapons used in the 1993 bombing campaign that rocked India 's financial capital .
He is the 20th person convicted so far in the case that began in 1994 .
Five others were acquitted Thursday .
More verdicts are expected in the coming weeks .
A total of 123 defendants were accused .
The attacks were carried out in revenge for Hindu-Muslim clashes that killed hundreds of people several months before the bombings .
A Nigerian attack helicopter has exchanged gunfire with heavily-armed militants in the oil-rich Niger Delta .
The Nigerian military said Friday the gunship fired on a barge stealing oil from a pipeline .
The helicopter drew heavy return fire from militants guarding the boat .
No injuries were reported .
Thursday , an oil well fire forced Royal Dutch Shell to close a flow station , cutting production by almost 38,000 barrels a day .
The cause of the fire is unknown , but it came one day after a local militant group , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta threatened to renew attacks against oil installations in the region .
The group said the Nigerian military used a Shell airstrip to launch a helicopter attack a day earlier .
The military said it attacked barges used by oil smugglers , while the militants claimed the attack targeted ethnic Ijaw communities .
SOME BOYS , playing near a pond , saw a number of Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones .
They killed several of them , when one of the Frogs , lifting his head out of the water , cried out : " Pray stop , my boys : what is sport to you , is death to us . "
- " One man 's pleasure may be another 's pain . " -
India 's newly elected Congress Party lawmakers have formally selected Manmohan Singh as their leader in parliament for a second term .
In his acceptance speech Tuesday , Mr. Singh promised to work for major economic reforms and lead a more inclusive government .
Mr. Singh submitted the resignation of his government to the president on Monday , a formality that clears the way for the formation of a new government led by him later this week .
The ruling Congress Party-led alliance won 261 seats in the 543-member parliament in the recent elections .
The strong showing ensures the party will be free of the pressures of its former communist partners , boosting chances it will be able to push through economic reforms to spur growth .
The regularity and richness of the annual Nile River flood , coupled with semi-isolation provided by deserts to the east and west , allowed for the development of one of the world 's great civilizations .
A unified kingdom arose circa 3200 B.C. , and a series of dynasties ruled in Egypt for the next three millennia .
The last native dynasty fell to the Persians in 341 B.C. , who in turn were replaced by the Greeks , Romans , and Byzantines .
It was the Arabs who introduced Islam and the Arabic language in the 7th century and who ruled for the next six centuries .
A local military caste , the Mamluks took control about 1250 and continued to govern after the conquest of Egypt by the Ottoman Turks in 1517 .
Following the completion of the Suez Canal in 1869 , Egypt became an important world transportation hub , but also fell heavily into debt .
Ostensibly to protect its investments , Britain seized control of Egypt 's government in 1882 , but nominal allegiance to the Ottoman Empire continued until 1914 .
Partially independent from the UK in 1922 , Egypt acquired full sovereignty with the overthrow of the British-backed monarchy in 1952 .
The completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the time-honored place of the Nile River in the agriculture and ecology of Egypt .
A rapidly growing population ( the largest in the Arab world ) , limited arable land , and dependence on the Nile all continue to overtax resources and stress society .
The government has struggled to meet the demands of Egypt 's growing population through economic reform and massive investment in communications and physical infrastructure .
The well-known U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers is facing the possibility of bankruptcy following the collapse Sunday of talks aimed at finding a buyer for the troubled financial institution .
Regulators and bankers had been holding talks aimed at stabilizing the 158-year-old investment bank , but news reports Sunday said Britain 's Barclays Plc and Bank America decided against buying Lehman Brothers .
Lehman was once the fourth-largest investment bank in the United States , but bad investments in real estate and other areas brought a drastic fall in the value of Lehman shares recently .
Government and banking officials are concerned that the failure of such a large institution could shake confidence in the financial system and hurt the value of other firms .
The Faroese economy is dependent on fishing , which makes the economy vulnerable to price swings .
The sector accounts for about 95 % of exports and nearly half of GDP .
In early 2008 the Faroese economy began to slow as a result of smaller catches and historically high oil prices that continue to trouble the economy .
Reduced catches , especially of cod and haddock , have continued to strain the Faroese economy .
GDP grew 0.5 % in 2008 - 09 .
The slowdown in the Faroese economy followed a strong performance since the mid-1990s with annual growth rates averaging close to 6 % , mostly a result of increased fish landings and salmon farming , and high export prices .
Unemployment reached its lowest level in the first half of 2008 , but increased to 3.9 % in 2009 and is rising .
The Faroese Home Rule Government produced increasing budget surpluses that helped to reduce the large public debt , most of it to Denmark .
However , total dependence on fishing and salmon farming make the Faroese economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in world demand .
In addition , budget surpluses turned to deficits in 2008 - 09 , and the economy at both the country and local level is running large deficits .
Initial discoveries of oil in the Faroese area give hope for eventual oil production , which may provide a foundation for a more diversified economy and less dependence on Danish economic assistance .
Aided by an annual subsidy from Denmark amounting to about 6 % of Faroese GDP , the Faroese have a standard of living almost equal to that of Denmark and Greenland .
President Bush and Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva have pledged to seek conditions for fair international trade , including the elimination of many nations ' agricultural subsidies .
The two presidents made statements to reporters after meeting in the Brazilian capital , Brasilia Sunday .
The presidents said they were encouraged by U.S. - Brazilian trade relations , which President Bush said he is convinced are equitable and fair .
Before the meeting , Mr. Bush told a gathering of young Brazilian leaders the United States is a friend of Brazil and that Washington wants Latin America to be prosperous .
The president arrived in Brasilia Saturday after attending the Summit of the Americas in Argentina , where delegates failed to reach consensus on creating a regional free-trade zone .
Brazil was one of five countries that said it is not willing to continue talks on a U.S. free-trade plan for the Western Hemisphere .
Tonga - unique among Pacific nations - never completely lost its indigenous governance .
The archipelagos of " The Friendly Islands " were united into a Polynesian kingdom in 1845 .
Tonga became a constitutional monarchy in 1875 and a British protectorate in 1900 ; it withdrew from the protectorate and joined the Commonwealth of Nations in 1970 .
Tonga remains the only monarchy in the Pacific .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is set to deliver a major foreign policy speech in France Tuesday aimed at seeking common ground with the United States ' European allies and easing tensions over Iraq .
Ms. Rice is expected to stress the shared interests of Europe and the United States in promoting democracy worldwide .
After her speech , she is due to meet with French President Jacques Chirac , one of the strongest opponents of the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
Earlier today in Rome , Ms. Rice met with Italian Foreign Minister Gianfranco Fini and the Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Angelo Sodano .
Ms. Rice , on her first foreign trip as Secretary of State , already has made stops in Britain , Germany , Poland , and Turkey , as well as Israel and the Palestinian territories .
She is laying the groundwork for President Bush 's upcoming European trip .
Germany 's national football ( soccer ) team has risen to fifth in the world in the latest International Football Federation rankings , the first poll to include all the world 's football associations .
Brazil is still the top team in the world followed by World Cup champions Italy , Argentina , and France .
However , Germany rose to fifth ahead of England after the devaluation of previous results .
The Netherlands is seventh , followed by Portugal , Nigeria , and the Czech Republic .
Egypt showed the largest move in the top 25 rising eight places to 19th in the world .
Denmark dropped two places to 23rd while Russia moved up two to 24th .
The United States remained in 31st place .
January 's rankings were the first ever to include all 207 worldwide football associations .
Incoming U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says Democrats have set three goals to follow after they take control of the Senate in January - bipartisanship , open and honest government , and results .
Reid delivered the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday , a week and a-half after Democrats won back control of both the Senate and the House of Representatives in legislative elections .
Reid said Democrats want to work with Republicans to raise the minimum wage , give tax relief to working families , and cut health care and education costs .
He also said Democrats plan to figure out how to stabilize Iraq and bring U.S. troops home .
President Bush has vowed to work to find " common ground " with the Democratic majority in Congress over the next two years .
Iran says it has ended all voluntary cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency , after the agency voted to report Tehran 's disputed nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told a news conference Sunday , Tehran has stopped all voluntary measures undertaken in the past several years .
He says Iran will continue to honor its commitments to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
Earlier , a Foreign Ministry spokesman said the government was still open to negotiations despite Saturday 's vote by the IAEA 's board of governors .
Iranian officials also say they will go ahead with planned talks with Russia about the enrichment of uranium President Bush said the IAEA 's decision sends a clear message that the world will not permit Iran to have nuclear weapons .
In Germany Sunday , Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov said he doubted whether sanctions would be effective against Iran .
The president of Togo has announced he will hold elections within 60 days to end a political crisis that began when the military installed him as the country 's leader .
Faure Gnassingbe said in a speech carried by state media Friday he will remain interim president until elections take place .
He said he made the decision in the interests of the nation .
Mr. Gnassingbe took power earlier this month after the death of his father , longtime President Gnassingbe Eyadema , who had ruled for 38 years .
Togo has come under pressure from the African Union to hold elections in line with the country 's former constitution .
Togolese lawmakers amended the constitution last week to allow Mr. Gnassingbe to serve out his father 's term until 2008
A United Nations official say recent violence in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region has left at least 40,000 civilians displaced .
The head of the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in northern Darfur , Gregory Alex , says many of these newly displaced are living in the desert with no shelter .
Last month , rebels in Darfur said government forces and allied militias launched a series of heavy ground and air assaults on their positions in northern Darfur .
Government officials said troops in the area were only guarding roads to protect humanitarian convoys from rebel attacks .
Darfur rebels began an uprising against the Sudanese government in 2003 .
U.N. experts estimate the five-year conflict has killed more than 200,000 people and displaced 2.5 million others .
Sudan accuses Western governments and the media of exaggerating the size and scope of the conflict and says no more than 10,000 people have died .
Outgoing U.S. Commerce Secretary Donald Evans is repeating the Bush Administration 's call for China to switch to a more flexible system for valuing its currency .
Mr. Evans made the remarks Wednesday in an address to the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing .
The U.S. says China 's fixed peg of its currency to the U.S. dollar allows it to export its goods at much cheaper prices .
Mr. Evans says Washington also wants Beijing to loosen regulations on direct selling to consumers so U.S. companies can compete in the Chinese market .
This is Mr. Evans ' last official trip to China .
He 's expected to be replaced later this month by Carlos Gutierrez , who has been nominated for the Commerce job by President Bush .
Trucks with the remains of 465 Bosnian massacre victims have rolled through Sarajevo on the way to ceremonies near Srebrenica Wednesday , the 12th anniversary of the killings .
The victims , newly identified through DNA analysis , will be buried at the Potocari memorial alongside 2,400 victims already interred there .
About 1,000 police officers are being sent to keep order at Wednesday 's ceremonies , which up to 30,000 people are expected to attend .
They are expected to include chief United Nations war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte , who is currently visiting the Balkans .
Serb forces killed about 8,000 Bosnian Muslim men and boys after capturing Srebrenica , an enclave in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina , which the United Nations had declared a Muslim safe haven .
The massacre is considered the worst in Europe since World War II .
A U.S. bankruptcy judge has reaffirmed her ruling that U.S. courts do not have jurisdiction in the Yukos case .
Judge Letitia Clark had ruled last week that the company does not have enough presence in the United States for the courts to intervene .
The firm based its case on the fact that its financial chief owns a home in Texas and the company has bank accounts there .
The embattled firm was seeking bankruptcy protection after Russia 's court-ordered sale of its Yuganskneftegaz production unit .
Yukos had sought help from the court in an unsuccessful attempt to halt the auction .
Judge Clark in December temporarily had approved a Yukos request to block the sale .
The bestselling book Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is based on a true story of murder in the southern city of Savannah , Georgia .
Hollywood turned it into a movie - making the crime 's location , a historic building known as Mercer House , a major tourist attraction .
For producer Roger Hsu , Elaine Lu has more on the house and the story that captivated the city .
Meantime , China 's total foreign trade , both exports and imports , fell 13.9 percent in 2009 Chinese officials say the country 's exports surged in December to edge out Germany as the world 's biggest exporter .
The official Xinhua news agency reported Sunday that figures from the General Administration for Customs showed that exports jumped 17.7 percent in December from a year earlier .
Huang Guohua , a statistics official with the customs administration , said the December exports rebound was an important turning point for China 's export sector .
Huang added that the jump was an indication that exporters have emerged from their downslide .
However , although China overtook Germany in exports , China 's total foreign trade -- both exports and imports -- fell 13.9 percent in 2009 .
Israel says Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will turn over his duties to his deputy before undergoing a heart procedure at a Jerusalem hospital on Thursday .
Deputy Ehud Olmert is expected to assume the prime minister 's duties for about three hours , while doctors at Hadassah University Hospital administer general anesthesia to plug a tiny hole in Mr. Sharon 's heart .
The hole was discovered after the 77-year-old leader suffered a mild stroke December 18 .
Cardiologists say Mr. Sharon did not suffer permanent damage from the stroke , and they say Thursday 's procedure should prevent similar strokes in the future .
Syrian officials say the government is considering a formal U.N. request to question six Syrian officers in connection with the killing of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Officials say the request from chief U.N. investigator , German Prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , was handed over to the Syrian Foreign Ministry Sunday .
The officials did not identify the six wanted for questioning , or say if the United Nations wanted to conduct the questioning in Syria or outside .
Earlier , published reports in the Associated Press and the al-Hayat daily said that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's brother-in-law General Assef Shawkat is among those wanted .
Last week , the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution demanding Syria 's cooperation with the U.N. probe , or face " further action . "
An Afghan police official says border police have shot and killed seven civilians after mistaking them for insurgents .
Abdul Raziq , head of the border police , told reporters the incident occurred in Kandahar 's Shubarak district in southern Afghanistan near the border with Pakistan .
The civilians were gathering wood when they were spotted by a six-member border police patrol .
Raziq said the officers involved have been detained for questioning , and the incident is under investigation .
Afghan troops and NATO forces have been fighting a fierce insurgency in Afghanistan .
Last year was the deadliest for Afghan civilians and international troops in Afghanistan since the U.S.-led invasion in late 2001 toppled the Taliban
A military judge has ordered a British soldier cleared of one charge of simulating a kick at an Iraqi prisoner .
In the court-martial trial of three British soldiers Wednesday at a British base in Germany , the judge directed the panel of military officers to find Lance Corporal Mark Cooley not guilty on the charge of conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline .
He said the legal reasons for his decision could not be reported at the present time .
Cooley still faces two other mistreatment charges .
The three British soldiers originally faced a total of nine charges of mistreating and sexually humiliating Iraqis .
The men have denied the charges , although one has pleaded guilty to one count of assault .
Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops say they have killed several suspected Taliban militants during an operation in southern Helmand province .
Coalition officials say violence erupted as troops searched a compound for militants associated with the Taliban and other insurgents .
During the search , a gun battle erupted and several suspected militants died .
A coalition statement said no civilians were killed or wounded in the fighting .
Helmand province , one of the world 's top opium growing regions , has been badly affected by a renewed Taliban insurgency .
Also Tuesday , the Afghan government defended its decision to expel two top European diplomats , saying they will not be allowed to return .
The pair were forced to leave Afghanistan last week , after being accused of threatening the nation 's security for holding unauthorized talks with Taliban rebels .
Seeded players had mixed results Tuesday at the Legg Mason Tennis Classic in Washington .
Tim Henman of Britain , the tournament 's 14th seed , needed three sets to oust American Phillip King , 6-7 , 6-3 , 7-5 , in a second round match .
But the hardcourt event is over for ninth-seeded Paradorn Srichaphan .
Kenneth Carlsen of Denmark upended his Thai opponent , 4-6 , 7-6 , 6-3 .
In first round action , American Vince Spadea advanced when Roko Karanusic of Croatia retired while trailing , 7-5 , 1-0 .
Russian Teimuraz Gabashvili defeated Jean-Christophe Faurel of France , 6-3 , 6-3 .
Ramon Delgado of Paraguay beat Australian Peter Luczak , 6-4 , 6-4 .
Edgardo Massa of Argentina ousted Somdev Dev Varman of India , 6-4 , 6-0 .
Tomas Zib of the Czech Republic toppled Jean-Rene Lisnard of France , 7-5 , 6-4 .
A British news report says that the Iraqi judge who sentenced former President Saddam Hussein to death has applied for asylum in London .
The Times newspaper said Saturday that Raouf Abdel Rahman is living in Britain , because he fears for his life in Iraq .
The report says Abdel Rahman arrived in Britain with his family two weeks prior to Saddam 's December 30 execution .
Judiciary officials in Baghdad say Rahman requested a vacation and that he said he was returning home .
Judge Abdel Rahman , an Iraqi Kurd , presided over the court that sentenced the former Iraqi dictator and some of his top aides to death in November of last year .
Militants in Iraq have often targeted relatives of prominent public figures , including judges .
Arabic Al-Jazeera television reported earlier this month that Abdel Rahman was seeking asylum in London .
Seven North Koreans have entered Thailand 's embassy in Vietnam seeking asylum .
Embassy officials say the three men and four women entered the outpost Wednesday carrying handwritten messages asking for asylum .
The refugees speak no English or Vietnamese .
A growing number of North Koreans have escaped the chronic food shortages and repression prevalent in their isolated homeland .
Many have sought refuge in embassies in foreign countries , mainly in China .
South Korea airlifted more than 460 North Korean refugees out of Vietnam in July of last year .
The operation enraged Pyongyang and led to a freeze in inter-Korean talks .
A group calling itself al-Qaida in Iraq has ridiculed this week 's terrorism conference in Spain marking the first anniversary of the bombing of Madrid trains that killed nearly 200 people and wounded more than 1000 .
A message posted on a web site used by Islamists describes the international officials and experts who met in Madrid as ' infidels ' who will never be victorious .
At the conference , which concluded Friday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the world must move quickly to prevent terrorists from getting access to nuclear weapons .
Spain observed five minutes of silence Friday to remember the March 11 , 2004 coordinated bombings of four Madrid trains , which killed 191 people .
Islamic militants , predominantly from Morocco and sympathetic to al-Qaida , claimed responsibility for setting the bombs .
Burma 's military government says talks aimed at completing a draft constitution will resume in October .
The chairman of the National Convention ( Lieutenant General Thein Sein ) announced Saturday that the next meeting of the constitutional convention will take place the second week of October .
Officials said after earlier talks that the draft was about 75-percent complete .
Burma 's military leadership crushed a pro-democracy movement in 1988 and has refused to recognize an election victory by the opposition National League for Democracy .
That group refuses to take part in the constitutional talks , because its leader , Aung San Suu Kyi , is barred from participating .
Aung San Suu Kyi has been under house arrest or imprisoned for much of the last 20 years .
Iraq 's parliament has reversed controversial new election rules it adopted earlier this week for the upcoming referendum on the country 's new constitution .
With only about half of the legislators present , parliament voted 119 - 28 Wednesday to restore the original rules for the October 15 vote .
Those rules stipulate that the constitution will be approved if a simple majority of voters cast " yes " ballots , and if two thirds of voters in at least three provinces do not vote " no . "
Shi'ite and Kurdish lawmakers had tried to ensure the document 's approval by changing the " two thirds of voters " language to the less likely " two thirds of registered voters . "
United Nations and U.S. officials had expressed concerns over the change , as did Sunni Arab officials and independent lawmakers who called it illegal and threatened to boycott the referendum .
Iraqi police say a suicide car bomber has killed at least five people in Baghdad , the latest violence in a week of grim attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Officials say the attacker drove an explosives-packed car into a security checkpoint in Baghdad 's mostly Sunni neighborhood of Ghazaliya Friday .
About 20 people were wounded .
Attacks targeting Shi'ite pilgrims in Baghdad killed more than 60 other people this week , which marked the anniversary of Shi'ite Imam Moussa al-Kadhim 's death .
Overall violence in Iraq is yet to match the peak reached in 2006 and 2007 .
But insurgents have intensified attacks since inconclusive March elections left the country without a governing coalition .
Tens of thousands of supporters of an anti-U.S. Shi'ite cleric have rallied in Baghdad to protest the U.S. military presence six years after American forces captured the Iraqi capital .
Backers of cleric Moqtada al-Sadr gathered Thursday at Firdous Square , where Saddam Hussein 's statue was toppled on April 9 , 2003 .
An aide to al-Sadr relayed a message from the cleric , believed to be in Iran , describing the U.S. presence in Iraq as a " crime against all Iraqis . "
The protest was in marked contrast to the jubilation on the square six years ago , when Iraqis cheered as U.S. Marines pulled Saddam 's statue down .
The U.S. military is scheduled to withdraw from Iraq in 2011 .
Colombia 's government says it is prepared to withdraw military forces from around a small mountain town to negotiate with the country 's largest Marxist rebel group about a possible deal to free dozens of hostages .
President Alvaro Uribe said Tuesday his government accepted the proposal by a commission comprising France , Spain and Switzerland .
But there was no immediate word on whether the rebels , known as the FARC , has accepted .
The plan calls for the government to pull troops from a 180-kilometer radius surrounding El~Retiro ( in the southern province of Valle del Cauca ) and for the area to be free of FARC rebels , except for guerrilla negotiators .
It calls for the area to be demilitarized seven days before and after talks .
The FARC wants to exchange dozens of hostages - who include politicians , military personnel and three Americans - for imprisoned guerrillas .
People in many countries are honoring military veterans Friday .
In the United States , where the holiday is known as Veterans Day , a solemn ceremony was held at Arlington National Cemetery , just outside Washington .
A bugler played the traditional " Taps " tattoo , while Vice President Dick Cheney laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns , containing the remains of unidentified service members killed in wartime .
President Bush honored veterans at another event in Wilkes-Barre , Pennsylvania , where he defended current military campaigns .
The eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month is also observed in many British Commonwealth countries , in honor of the moment the armistice ending the First World War was signed in 1918 .
Remembrance or Armistice Day , was renamed in the United States in 1954 when the observance was broadened to include all men and women who have served in the U.S. armed forces .
The World Health Organization says Egypt has confirmed its first human bird flu death .
The Egyptian health ministry says a 30-year-old woman near Cairo died last Friday after coming in contact with diseased poultry .
If confirmed by the WHO , she would be the 99th human death from bird flu since 2003 .
Most of the deaths have come in Asia .
The disease has spread from southeast Asia and China into the Middle East , Africa , India , and Europe .
Monday , the Bush administration warned that the United States is likely to see its first case in wild birds this year .
Officials with the U.S. Interior and Agriculture Departments say they plan to collect samples from as many as 100,000 live and dead wild birds to monitor the virus .
Officials say they will focus on migration routes through Alaska and Pacific Ocean islands .
A British Royal Air Force doctor has appeared in a military court and pleaded not guilty to five charges of failing to comply with orders after refusing to go to Iraq .
The Flight Lieutenant Malcolm Kendall-Smith refused to attend training in advance of deployment to Basra last year .
He said he believed the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq was illegal .
The prosecutor told the court the presence of British forces in Iraq was not unlawful .
The officer had already completed tours of duty in Iraq .
The president of Malawi has pardoned a gay couple sentenced to 14 years in prison .
President Bingu wa Mutharika said Saturday that he was ordering the release of the men on humanitarian grounds .
He made the announcement after meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon .
Last week , a court sentenced Steven Monjeza , 26 , and Tiwonge Chimbalanga , 20 , to 14 years of hard labor for sodomy and indecency .
The couple was arrested in December after holding a symbolic engagement ceremony .
U.S. officials said the United States was " appalled " by the sentence .
A White House spokesman said the case marred Malawi 's human rights record .
Homosexuality is illegal in Malawi and many other African countries .
The laws have triggered outrage and concern among Western nations and human rights groups .
The Chinese have a strong affinity for their mountains .
Many peaks are immortalized in poems , music , and art work .
As China modernizes and the middle class grows , the country has found a new way to capitalize on its reverence for snow-capped peaks .
Sam Beattie reports from the Tibetan Plateau .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has paid another visit to a Tokyo war shrine seen by critics as a symbol of Japan 's past militarism .
Monday 's visit was Mr. Koizumi 's fifth to the war shrine since he became prime minister in April , 2001 .
The shrine in central Tokyo honors 2.5 million Japanese war dead , including convicted war criminals executed by the Allies after World War Two .
Mr. Koizumi was driven to the shrine where he bowed in silence without entering and made a donation before leaving .
China , South Korea and other victims of Japanese aggression have protested the visits saying they pay homage to Japan 's wartime past .
Mr. Koizumi has said that during his visits to the shrine , he prays for peace and prosperity in Japan .
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of food .
As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest , he heard a Mother say to her child , " Be quiet , or I will throw you out of the window , and the Wolf shall eat you . "
The Wolf sat all day waiting at the door .
In the evening he heard the same woman fondling her child and saying :
" You are quiet now , and if the Wolf should come , we will kill him . "
The Wolf , hearing these words , went home , gasping with cold and hunger .
When he reached his den , Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied and supperless , so contrary to his wont .
He replied :
" Why , forsooth ! use I gave credence to the words of a woman ! "
U.S. and German authorities have initialed an agreement under which Berlin and Washington will share fingerprints , personal data and DNA samples of people suspected of terrorist activities .
German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble and U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff initialed the deal Tuesday in Berlin .
German and U.S. lawmakers still must approve the agreement .
If endorsed , the deal is to take effect by the end of the year .
The agreement comes six months after German authorities uncovered what they described as a plot to bomb U.S. personnel and military bases in that country .
German prosecutors said three suspects attended training camps in Pakistan and were stockpiling chemicals to manufacture car bombs .
The U.S. military says fierce clashes in the Iraqi city of Baquba have resulted in the deaths 24 Iraqi police officers and 18 insurgents .
The U.S. military says a civilian also died in the violence that erupted Thursday after insurgents ambushed a police unit .
In the northern city of Mosul , authorities have imposed a vehicle ban after insurgents distributed leaflets threatening violence in the mixed Sunni-Kurdish city .
Meanwhile , U.S. troops backed by air support have moved into the militia stronghold of Sadr City in eastern Baghdad in search of a missing American soldier .
The military says the soldier is believed to have left the fortified Green Zone to visit relatives on Monday , and that armed gunmen kidnapped him from that home .
The month of October has turned out to the be the deadliest for the U.S. military in a year , with 96 deaths .
Iran 's foreign minister says he remains hopeful that talks with the European Union on Tehran 's nuclear program will lead to what he calls a " very fruitful agreement . "
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi made his remarks Tuesday after conferring with Hungarian officials in the capital , Budapest .
EU officials have been trying to persuade Iran to give up its uranium enrichment program in exchange for economic incentives , and help in obtaining a light-water reactor , which can only be used for energy production .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly working to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran strongly denies the allegation , insisting its nuclear program is only for making electricity .
On Sunday , an Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi said Iran will not , under any circumstances , halt its plans to build a heavy-water reactor .
A key figure in South Africa 's mediation efforts in Ivory Coast says elections set for next month in the war-divided nation are unlikely .
South African Defense Minister Mosiuoa Lekota said Thursday it is possible to postpone the October 30 elections until November .
But he added there is no reason elections can not be held by the end of the year .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has said it will be impossible to hold the October elections .
He said Ivorian leaders have not cooperated and have not taken the necessary steps ahead of the polls .
Efforts to hold the elections have been plagued by problems .
Ivory Coast rebels have rejected the polls , claiming conditions are not in place for a free vote .
U.S. legislators and North Korean activists have recounted stories of injustice they said China has inflicted on refugees .
At a news conference in Washington , the group called on world leaders to boycott the 2008 Olympics opening ceremonies .
They accused China of a " record of shame " in its treatment of North Korean defectors who tried to flee repression .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti has our story from the perspective of a defector .
OPEC has decided it wo n't increase its crude oil output despite record high oil prices .
Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said the reason for high prices is not from a shortage of supply and that the market determines the oil price .
Rising tensions between the U.S. and Iran are also influencing the high prices .
OPEC president Edmund Daukoru , who is also Nigeria 's oil minister , said the market remains volatile with prices being driven more by geopolitical uncertainties and speculation than by supply-demand fundamentals .
U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman said high oil prices are causing great pain to the United States and global economies .
He called for more security at energy facilities around the world to avoid any potentially catastrophic supply disruptions .
The three-day forum officially opened Sunday .
It brings together ministers and representatives from 58 countries in order to foster dialogue between producer nations and consumers .
Bill was a frequent user of a pay telephone at a popular truck stop , and was greatly inconvenienced when the phone went out of commission .
Repeated requests for repair brought only promises .
After several days , Bill again contacted the phone company and told that there was no longer a rush .
The phone was now working fine ... except that all money was being returned upon completion of each call .
A repairman arrived within the hour !
The world is divided into two groups .
There are those who know , and those who do n't know .
Those who know are no problem .
Those who do n't know are also in two groups .
One is those who do n't know and know they do n't know .
Well , they can learn ! But then , there are those who do n't know , and do n't know they do n't know .
And they become unit managers !
Protesters in the Israeli town of Nazareth have taken to the streets for a second day to protest an incident in which a Jewish man and his family detonated firecrackers in a Christian shrine .
Hundreds of people peacefully marched through the town Saturday , accusing Israeli authorities of not doing enough to protect holy sites of all faiths .
Friday 's incident triggered panic in the Basilica of the Annunciation and rioting by local residents outside the church .
Authorities say at least 12 people were injured in the melee , before order was restored .
Israeli police said the man has a history of mental illness , and had previously threatened to attack other churches in Israel .
The Basilica is built at the site of the Annunciation , where Christians believe the archangel Gabriel told the Virgin Mary she had been chosen by God to bear His son , Jesus .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has suggested changes to soften a draft law that would place restrictions on non-governmental organizations .
A Kremlin statement says the Russian leader has suggested scrapping a clause that would require foreign NGOs to register as Russian entities .
Instead , Mr. Putin proposed that they be required only to inform authorities of their presence .
The draft law also would expand government oversight of non-governmental groups and ban their acceptance of foreign funds for political activities .
Human rights groups and western governments have expressed concern over the measure , calling it a reflection of the Kremlin 's crackdown on civil society institutions .
Russian lawmakers gave preliminary approval to the draft last month .
Two more votes are required for final approval .
The Iraqi Cabinet has approved an agreement with the country 's autonomous Kurdish government to resume oil exports from Kurdish areas .
Iraq 's central government had objected to the oil exports because authorities in the Kurdish region signed deals with Western oil companies independently .
Those companies began oil exports last year but stopped a few months later when Baghdad refused to pay them .
Under the deal approved Tuesday , the Iraqi government will pay the costs of Western oil companies operating in the self-ruled Kurdish region in northern Iraq .
Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh says Baghdad has agreed to guarantee the expenses of oil companies in the Kurdish region after auditing them .
It was not immediately clear who will pay the oil companies ' profits or when the oil exports will resume .
Iran has launched a new , domestically made submarine equipped with what it says is the latest military and technological equipment .
According to official media , the submarine has been named Ghadir - after a Muslim holiday of the same name .
State media in Tehran broadcast pictures Wednesday of a submersible craft , but it was not immediately clear if it was the new one , or a craft previously shown by Iranian media .
In 2005 , Iran announced that it had built its first sub .
Iran has been praising its military prowess of late , amid increasing tensions over its nuclear program .
The United States says Tehran 's program is a cover to build a nuclear weapon .
Tehran denies the charge , saying its program is for peaceful purposes only .
Hurricane Beta has made landfall in northeast Nicaragua , pounding the country 's Caribbean coast with strong winds and heavy rain .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Beta hit land Sunday as a category two storm with sustained winds near 175 kilometers per hour .
Forecasters expect Beta to steadily weaken as it moves inland but say it could dump up to 40 centimeters of rain on parts of Nicaragua and eastern Honduras .
Nicaraguan authorities have moved tens of thousands of people into temporary shelters .
Honduras has declared a state of emergency , and has begun evacuating more than 100,00 people from areas prone to flooding and mudslides .
Beta is the 23rd named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , the most in a single year since record-keeping began in 1851 .
Iraqi troops are sealing off Baghdad to search for insurgents in their biggest such operation since the fall of Saddam Hussein .
Iraqi officials say Operation Lighting involves 40,000 Iraqi troops .
They began setting up the first of several hundred checkpoints in and around Baghdad Sunday .
Al-Qaida in Iraq says it is launching an offensive to counter the operation .
The group also claimed responsibility for Monday 's double suicide bombing in Hillah that killed 27 people .
Also Monday , the U.S. military released the head of Iraq 's top Sunni political party after mistakenly arresting him hours earlier .
And the U.S. military says an Iraqi aircraft with four Americans and one Iraqi on board crashed in eastern Iraq .
The statement says the crash is under investigation and gave no indication whether there are casualties .
A British parliamentary report says the war in Iraq is making it more difficult to tackle terrorism .
The Foreign Affairs Select Committee says the fighting in Iraq is providing extremists a crucial training ground .
It says despite successes in targeting al-Qaida 's leadership in Iraq , the danger of international terrorism and al-Qaida is growing .
The report also talks about what it says is the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan , where two more British soldiers were reported killed Sunday .
The lawmakers warned against military action in Iran over that country 's refusal to end its nuclear program .
The report says attacking Iran would likely unleash extremely serious consequences .
A court in Maluku province has sentenced a Muslim militant to death for his role in sectarian attacks that killed at least eight people .
An Ambon district court judge Kharlison Harianja found Asep Jaya guilty of involvement in terrorist acts and illegal possession of firearms .
Jaya was involved in attacks on a village and a police post that killed nine people in 2004 and 2005 .
He has denied guilt and appealed Monday 's verdict .
Violence between Christians and Muslims has killed more than five thousand people since 1999 on Ambon and surrounding islands in the Maluku chain .
The United States has proposed a 10,000 strong U.N. peacekeeping force for southern Sudan to help enforce a January cease-fire agreement that ended two decades of civil war .
The draft Security Council resolution circulated Monday also imposes sanctions on those responsible for the violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
It would widen an arms embargo to include the government and also demand Khartoum stop offensive military flights over Darfur .
The draft avoids the contentious issue of where to try those accused of war crimes committed in Darfur , simply calling for those suspected of atrocities to be brought to justice .
Most Security Council members want to use the existing International Criminal Court in The Hague .
Washington opposes the court and wants to use an existing tribunal in Tanzania instead .
Political rivals in Madagascar have agreed to reconvene in two weeks to continue their talks aimed at creating a unity government .
Interim leader Andry Rajoelina and his three predecessors failed to reach an agreement Saturday after three days of talks .
The negotiations are being facilitated by French and South African mediators in Pretoria .
One of the major points of disagreement is a timetable for holding new elections .
The country has been in a political crisis since March of 2009 when Mr. Rajoelina seized power from former president Marc Ravalomanana .
The interim government is not recognized by the African Union .
The group imposed sanctions on Mr. Rajoelina and his political allies in March for their refusal to honor agreements that had been mandated by the AU .
Chinese officials say police have shot and killed two Muslim Uighurs and injured another in renewed violence in northwestern Xinjiang province .
The state-run Xinhua news agency says police opened fire Monday to stop the three from attacking another Uighur with clubs and knives .
Xinhua says the police first fired warning shots .
The reports have not been independently confirmed .
The shooting happened in the provincial capital , Urumqi , a little more than a week after bloody clashes broke out there between Uighurs and members of China 's ethnic Han majority .
The violence left 184 people dead and 1,680 people wounded .
China 's Uighurs complain of religious and cultural persecution , and say an influx of Han in the area is taking away their economic opportunities .
The Uighurs ' Muslim religion and Turkic language link them more to their Central Asian neighbors than to China 's ethnic Han majority .
SOME Workingmen employed in a shoe factory went on a strike , saying :
" Why should we continue to work to feed and clothe our employer when we have none too much to eat and wear ourselves ? "
The Manufacturer , seeing that he could get no labour for a long time and finding the times pretty hard anyhow , burned down his shoe factory for the insurance , and when the strikers wanted to resume work there was no work to resume .
So they boycotted a tanner .
Members of the four-nation Andean Community trade alliance have gathered in Ecuador for a summit aimed at salvaging their regional commerce bloc .
The presidents of Bolivia , Ecuador , Colombia and Peru are attending the summit in Quito , Ecuador 's capital .
During the summit , the presidents plan to discuss pursuing a free trade pact with the European Union .
They also are seeking an extension of trade preferences granted by Washington in 1991 .
The preferences are due to expire at the end of this year .
Venezuela withdrew from the Andean Community last month , saying the bloc is " fatally wounded " because Peru and Colombia signed free trade deals with the United States .
Advocates say the free trade deals open up markets and create more jobs .
Critics say the pacts leave developing countries at a disadvantage with competition from cheaper U.S. products .
Syria says security forces have killed a Muslim extremist and arrested dozens of others trying to illegally cross into neighboring Lebanon .
Syria 's official news agency ( SANA ) says the clash erupted after the militant opened fire on a Syrian border patrol .
Two soldiers were killed in the clash .
The report did not say when or where the incident occurred , and only identified the dead militant by the initials MZ .
The news agency says 34 extremists of various nationalities were arrested following the clash .
Security forces reportedly later found passports , identity cards and other forged documents in an isolated house near the border allegedly used by the group .
Syria has been under intense pressure to crack down on suspected militants who the United States and Iraq say are using Syrian territory to infiltrate Iraq to fight coalition forces .
Yemen has blamed al-Qaida for the bombing of an oil pipeline Saturday in the eastern part of the country .
The Yemeni defense ministry said Monday the militants who blew up the pipeline in Maarib Province included Yemenis and at least two Saudis .
The bombing followed raids targeting al-Qaida sympathizers .
Yemen intensified its campaign against al-Qaida after the group 's local branch -- al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula -- claimed responsibility for the failed bombing of a US-bound airliner on Christmas Day .
On Saturday , Yemeni officials said suspected al-Qaida members killed a senior army officer and at least one other person in Maarib .
China is updating its government-sanctioned school music curriculum , for the first time adding some current pop hits to the old communist standards .
The Shanghai Daily newspaper says this year 's list of 100 approved songs for music classes includes several current pop hits , including two from Taiwanese performers .
Songs from hip-hop singer Jay Chou ( ' Snail ' ) and singer-actor Andy Lau ( ' Hero ' ) will join old standards such as " Chairman Mao is with Us Forever " and other patriotic ballads .
The newspaper says that students apparently were bored with the old anthems .
One student quoted by the newspaper said the children are always asked to sing what he called " monotonous revolutionary songs . "
But he said finally they can sing something of their own .
Election officials in Afghanistan say ballots from nearly 300 polling stations - about 1 percent of the nationwide total - are being excluded from the count of last month 's legislative elections because of fraud .
The head of the joint U.N.-Afghan election commission , Peter Erben , said there was " no sign of systemic countrywide fraud , " although there were what he called serious cases of fraud in some areas .
He declared provisional winners from national and provincial assembly seats in two of Afghanistan 's 34 provinces Thursday , and said other results will be announced in the coming weeks .
Mr. Erben said final , certified results from the September 18 vote could be expected by the end of this month , after resolving all complaints .
The pro-democracy winners of Burma 's 1990 parliamentary elections have asked the United Nations to recognize their representatives at the General Assembly in place of the representatives of the current military regime .
In a letter Tuesday , the winning candidates challenged the legitimacy of the military government , which never recognized election results that saw a landslide victory for the National League for Democracy led by Aung San Suu Kyi .
The pro-democracy leaders called on all U.N. member states to support their cause .
The military has ruled Burma since 1962 and has been widely criticized for suppressing basic freedoms .
Pro-democracy leader and Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi was detained in July 1989 and has spent 13 of the past 19 years under house arrest .
Double-amputee sprinter Oscar Pistorius resumes his bid to qualify for the Olympics on Friday at a Golden Gala meet in Rome .
The South African needs to meet an Olympic qualifying time of 45.55 in the 400 meter event .
Should he fall short in Rome , he will have one more chance next Wednesday in Lucerne , Switzerland .
Last week in Milan , Pistorius clocked 47.78 seconds in his first able-bodied race in nearly a year .
Pistorius resumed training only seven weeks ago when the Court of Arbitration for Sport , CAS , ruled that he was eligible to run in Beijing .
The CAS overturned a decision by the International Association of Athletics Federations that Pistorius ' carbon fiber prosthetic racing blades gave him an unfair advantage against able-bodied runners .
At least 35 people were killed and more than 20 injured in an early morning accident Friday in Ecuador when a bus plunged into a ravine .
Authorities said the death toll could increase as six people were trapped under the wreckage .
At least eight children were among those killed in the accident in Manabi province in southwestern Ecuador .
Investigators said the accident apparently was caused by a mechanical failure related to the bus 's gear box .
One Red Cross official said fog and rain may also have been factors in the accident .
Witnesses said there were more than 65 people on the bus , well above its normal capacity of 40 .
Israel says it has halted fuel deliveries to the Gaza Strip after a mortar shell fired by Palestinian militants hit the territory 's main fuel distribution center .
Israeli and Palestinian officials say the attack Wednesday prompted Israel to close the border and suspend the transfer of all types of fuel , including supplies for the coastal strip 's main power plant .
Palestinian medics say the mortar shell wounded a Palestinian employee at the Nahal Oz fuel terminal in Gaza .
Militants loyal to Hamas have been firing rockets into Israel since the radical group took over the Gaza Strip last June .
Israel has imposed a strict blockade on Gaza , reducing fuel and supplies to residents in the impoverished territory .
Japan and the Southeast Asian countries on the Mekong River issued a joint statement Friday calling for free and fair elections in Burma .
The Mekong summit , which met on the sidelines of the ASEAN summit in Vietnam 's capital Hanoi , also called for the Korean Peninsula to become a nuclear-free zone .
The group , including Cambodia , Laos , Thailand , Burma and Vietnam , issued an action plan calling for Japanese economic aid and technical help to develop transportation and energy resources in the Mekong River region , while protecting its environment .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in Hanoi Friday that it is not too late for a credible , democratic transition in Burma , which is planning to hold controversial elections on November 7 .
Afghan officials say a series of bomb and suicide attacks Sunday killed at least 18 people , including 11 construction workers .
Eight workers died when their vehicle hit a roadside bomb in eastern Nangarhar province , while three more construction workers were killed in a similar incident in southeastern Zabul province .
In southern Helmand province , a double suicide bombing claimed by the Taliban killed four security personnel and three civilians .
Local officials say the first bomber blew himself up near a police checkpoint in the town of Gereshk , while the second bomber struck as Afghan security forces arrived at the scene .
Also Sunday , the U.S. military said Afghan and coalition forces killed one militant and detained seven others in eastern Paktika province .
In a separate operation in northeastern Nangarhar province , Afghan and coalition forces say they captured five suspected militants , including a Taliban commander .
Pakistani military officials say a suicide bomber has killed five soldiers and wounded at least five others near the Afghan border .
The bomber detonated his explosives Thursday in South Waziristan 's main town of Wana .
It is unclear which group planned the attack , although al-Qaida and Taliban militants are active in the tribal region .
China and Russia top the latest U.S. list of countries that are havens for the illegal copying and distribution of the intellectual property of U.S. businesses .
The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released an annual report Friday that noted China 's efforts to curb the piracy of intellectual property , but said enforcement continues to lag far behind the promises made by top Chinese officials .
The report also called Russia a serious pirating concern .
While Moscow has shut down some CD and DVD factories , particularly on government-owned land , the report said high levels of infringement remain .
In addition to China and Russia , the 11 other countries topping the trade commission list were Argentina , Belize , Brazil , Egypt , India , Indonesia , Israel , Lebanon , Turkey , Ukraine and Venezuela .
Janne Happonen of Finland has won his first World Cup ski jumping competition , with leaps of 124 and 129 meters on the large hill in Lahti , Finland .
The 21-year-old Happonen , who won a silver medal in the team event at the Turin Games , earned 270.3 points Sunday .
That put him 2.7 points ahead of overall World Cup leader Jakub Janda of the Czech Republic .
Janda made jumps of 128 and 123.5 meters .
Michael Uhrmann of Germany finished third with 266.1 points from jumps of 120.5 and 131 meters .
Janda , who has five victories this season , extended his overall lead ahead of Finland 's Janne Ahonen .
The Czech leads the standings with 1,058 points , 112 ahead of Ahonen .
Andreas Kuttel of Switzerland is third overall with 739 points .
Palestinians are voting to pick a successor to Yasser Arafat .
It is their first presidential election in nine years and a key step towards renewing peace talks with Israel .
Lines of Palestinians are forming at polling stations across the West Bank , Gaza Strip , and East Jerusalem as some of the 1.8 million eligible voters cast their ballots .
Israeli and Palestinian security forces are on high alert to prevent disturbances and protect access to the voting sites .
Former President Jimmy Carter , here to help monitor the elections , says he is optimistic the vote will be a success .
" We expect there to be an honest and fair , open and transparent election process , " he said .
Former Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas is widely expected to win the election .
He campaigned on promises to end violence and resume peace talks with Israel .
The United States has imposed financial sanctions on an Iranian-based foundation for allegedly providing support to Islamic terrorist organizations .
The U.S. Treasury Department Tuesday accused the Martyrs Foundation of working directly with Lebanon 's Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah .
The U.S. said the Martyrs Foundation has channeled financial support to Hezbollah and the Palestinian militant groups Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad .
The department is freezing all the foundation 's bank accounts or assets in the U.S. and forbidding Americans from doing business with the group .
The action also covers the foundation 's U.S. branch , Goodwill Charitable Organization .
The U.S. Treasury Department acted according to an executive order aimed at financially isolating terrorists and their support networks .
The department Tuesday also targeted a Beirut finance firm Al-Qard al-Hassan accused of being a cover for Hezbollah 's financial dealings and two Lebanese individuals .
Hard-line Hindus are warning couples not to take foreign celebrations of Valentine 's day too seriously because it corrupts traditional values .
Various Hindu nationalist groups warned people to stay indoors Tuesday , saying they would confront young couples showing affection in public and variously threatened to beat them , show their pictures to parents or force them to get married .
In the past , Hindu nationalists have accosted young couples and vandalized shops selling Valentine 's Day cards and gifts .
Police say Muslim groups also have objected to the growing popularity of Valentine 's Day .
Last week , more than 20 black-veiled Muslim women stormed gift and stationery shops in Indian Kashmir , burning Valentine 's Day cards to protest what they called the imposition of Western values on Muslim youth .
Chinese state media say at least 14 people were killed as Typhoon Sepat and a tornado hit China 's eastern and southern coasts .
The Xinhua News Agency says torrential rains from the typhoon triggered a landslide in Fujian province Sunday , killing two people .
One person is missing .
Rains also caused the collapse of the Daruo train station in Minging .
Six carriages of a cargo train derailed .
The agency says a farmer was killed when his house collapsed Sunday in Zhejian province 's Wencheng county .
Before its landfall Saturday , the typhoon spawned a tornado that killed 11 people and destroyed 156 houses in the city of Wenzhou in Zhejian .
Chinese authorities evacuated more than 900,000 people from Zhejian , Fujian and Guangdong provinces after the typhoon cut power to thousands of homes in Taiwan and the Philippines Saturday .
Two car bombs have killed at least 11 Iraqis in Baghdad .
Police said the bombs went off Thursday at a gas station and at a crowded outdoor market in eastern Baghdad .
At least 70 people were injured .
Earlier , a roadside bomb killed three Iraqi soldiers in the capital .
Also on Thursday , a U.S. helicopter fired rockets into a Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad during a clash with gunmen .
Iraqi officials said the airstrike killed a woman who was not involved in the fighting .
The U.S. military said the helicopter returned fire while pursuing " known Sunni Muslim terrorists " in the Sadr City area of the capital .
In other violence , five U.S. servicemen died in several attacks , including three in a roadside bombing .
Gunmen also kidnapped two Iraqi journalists working for Sumariya TV , an Iraqi station as they were returning to their office in Baghdad .
Pakistani security forces say at least 25 militants and three soldiers have died in the latest round of fighting in a northwestern tribal region near Afghanistan .
Military officials said Saturday the militants were killed in battles that broke out Friday in the Bajaur region in the Loi Sam and Rashakai areas .
They say at least two of the soldiers killed were officers .
Bajaur is a key battleground in Pakistan 's effort to drive out militants believed to be responsible for deadly attacks inside Pakistan and on neighboring Afghanistan .
The military says it has killed at least 1,000 Taliban and al-Qaida militants in the past month .
More than 60 soldiers have died in the operation .
Pakistan is recovering from a massive suicide car bombing that killed 53 people in the capital , Islamabad , last week .
The explosion gutted a luxury ( Marriott ) hotel and seriously shook the people 's confidence in their security .
Pakistani officials say heavy rains and snowfalls have killed at least 31 people across Pakistan over the past week and ended a drought in some parts of the country .
Most of the victims were killed in avalanches , flash floods and collapsing roofs .
The French News Agency , AFP , reports that six people have been killed in three separate avalanches in Indian Kashmir .
Also heavy snowfall has trapped some 3,000 motorists on the main Jammu-Srinagar highway .
In neighboring Afghanistan , snowfall has been so heavy that an operation to recover the bodies of 104 people killed in a plane crash one week ago still has not begun .
Bad weather so far has allowed only a brief inspection of the crash site .
Iraqi officials say eight people were killed when armed robbers raided a marketplace in a Shi'ite neighborhood of Baghdad .
Police say mortar shells or rockets exploded in the popular market in the Shula district before gunmen stormed the market 's gold and jewelry shops .
The gunmen escaped with the merchants ' wares .
Eight people were killed and at least 14 wounded in the assault that accompanied the heist .
Sectarian violence has declined in Iraq , but crime and lawlessness continue to plague the country .
Wednesday 's assault comes one day after a suicide bomber killed eight people at a cafe in a predominantly Sunni town of Buhriz north of Baghdad .
The casualties included Leith Mishaan , the leader of a Sunni militia that had turned against al-Qaida .
President Bush says that the most destabilizing thing that can happen in the Middle East and in the world is for Iran to develop a nuclear weapon .
During a joint news conference Wednesday in Kabul with Afghan President Hamid Karzai , Mr. Bush repeated Washington 's position that Iran should not be allowed to develop nuclear arms .
In Japan Wednesday , Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said his country has accepted in principle a Russian proposal to enrich uranium for Iran 's nuclear energy needs .
But he said the period of time and the place for uranium enrichment must still be negotiated .
A high level Iranian delegation is in Moscow Wednesday for more negotiations on the nuclear issue .
Mottaki also said that Iran has nothing to hide about its nuclear activities .
The United States and European Union say Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons - a charge it denies .
The Dominican Republic has long been viewed primarily as an exporter of sugar , coffee , and tobacco , but in recent years the service sector has overtaken agriculture as the economy 's largest employer , due to growth in telecommunications , tourism , and free trade zones .
The economy is highly dependent upon the US , the destination for nearly 60 % of exports .
Remittances from the US amount to about a tenth of GDP , equivalent to almost half of exports and three-quarters of tourism receipts .
The country suffers from marked income inequality ; the poorest half of the population receives less than one-fifth of GDP , while the richest 10 % enjoys nearly 40 % of GDP .
High unemployment and underemployment remains an important long-term challenge .
The Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA-DR ) came into force in March 2007 , boosting investment and exports and reducing losses to the Asian garment industry .
The growth of the Dominican Republic 's economy rebounded in 2010 from the global recession , and remains one of the fastest growing in the region .
Afghan officials say a suicide bomber has killed three people in the capital of Kabul , while fighting intensified with Taliban militants in the southwestern part of the country .
Police in Kabul say the bomber exploded his car near a coalition military convoy as it traveled down a busy street .
The blast killed three bystanders , including a child .
A coalition spokesman , U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Dave Johnson , says none of the soldiers were hurt .
In southwestern Farah province , police officials say Afghan and NATO forces inflicted heavy casualties in clashes with Taliban militants .
They say Afghan troops surrounded the Taliban as they gathered in the Bala Buluk district .
NATO forces then called in an airstrike .
Afghan officials say 30 Taliban militants were killed .
Two Afghan soldiers and a policeman also died in the clash .
These uninhabited islands came under Australian authority in 1931 ; formal administration began two years later .
Ashmore Reef supports a rich and diverse avian and marine habitat ; in 1983 , it became a National Nature Reserve .
Cartier Island , a former bombing range , became a marine reserve in 2000 .
The former head of Russian oil giant Yukos says the government takeover of the company 's main asset has inflicted severe damage on the Russian economy .
In a letter published Tuesday , Mikhail Khodorkovsky said Moscow 's approval for state-owned Rosneft to purchase Yukos ' largest subsidiary , Yuganskneftegaz , was the most destructive economic event since Russian President Vladimir Putin took office .
The former oil tycoon , imprisoned on alleged tax fraud , said Russian authorities want to lock him away because they are afraid he will seek revenge .
He denied any such intention , and said he would like to play a role in helping Russia prosper .
Meanwhile in Moscow today , Mr. Putin 's economic advisor Andrei Illarionov said this month 's government-forced sale of Yukos ' main asset was " the fraud of the year . "
Disturbia remains the United States ' top box-office attraction .
The peeping tom thriller took in $ 9.1 million last weekend , raising its three-week total to $ 52.2 million .
Analysts say U.S. filmgoers are saving their money in anticipation of a series of warm-weather blockbusters .
Leading the pack is Spider-Man 3 , which premieres May 4 .
Both of its franchise predecessors set box office records when they opened in 2002 and 2004 .
U.S. government officials say the Obama administration is considering creating a special unit of professional interrogators to handle high-value terror suspects .
Officials told two major U.S. newspapers The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post about the creation of the unit on the condition of anonymity , saying the government task force on interrogation methods has not yet reported to the president .
Officials say the unit 's primary purpose would be intelligence gathering , rather than building criminal cases for prosecution .
The team would also devise new interrogation methods .
Officials say the task force has not yet determined what agency should run the new unit , but it will not be the Central Intelligence Agency .
The CIA headed up interrogations under the Bush administration .
The small , specialized unit would be composed of personnel from the federal government 's intelligence , military , and law agencies .
Health officials in Haiti say the death toll from the country 's cholera epidemic has risen to more than 2,000 .
Haiti 's Health Ministry reported Monday that more than 90,000 cases have been recorded since the outbreak began in October .
The United Nations has warned the toll could become much higher before the epidemic is brought under control .
Cholera is spread through fecal-contaminated food and water .
It causes vomiting and diarrhea , and can quickly lead to severe dehydration and death .
Health workers fear the disease could quickly spread throughout squalid tent camps , where hundreds of thousands of people have been living since the January earthquake that devastated the capital Port-au-Prince and surrounding areas .
A former financial adviser to South African Deputy President Jacob Zuma has been found guilty of fraud and corruption .
The high court in Durban Thursday found Schabir Shaik guilty on three counts .
He was accused of paying Mr. Zuma $ 200,000 in bribes to help further Shaik 's business interests .
He was also charged with brokering a bribe between Mr. Zuma and a French arms firm so the company would be shielded from an investigation .
Shaik told reporters Thursday that he is innocent .
Mr. Zuma , who is seen as a favorite to succeed President Thabo Mbeki , was not charged in the case .
It is not clear if South African prosecutors will now charge him .
Following Thursday 's ruling , opposition groups immediately called for Mr. Zuma 's resignation .
Chinese authorities say a fire at a nightclub in southern China has killed 43 people and injured at least 88 others .
The official Xinhua news agency says the blaze erupted in a club in the southern city of Shenzhen in province late Saturday .
Xinhua said the fire was triggered by fireworks ignited during a performance .
The report said that as of Sunday morning , 59 of the injured had been hospitalized and six others were under medial observation .
The agency said police had detained 12 people in connection with the blaze .
Xinhua said an investigation team of officials from the country 's work safety watchdog , the Ministry of public Security , and the provincial and local governments , has been set up .
The U.S. House of Representatives has approved a $ 3.4 trillion budget outline without a single vote of support from Republicans .
The House passed the resolution Wednesday by a vote of 233 to 193 .
The measure now moves on to the Democratic-controlled Senate , where it is expected to pass .
The non-binding budget resolution is the lawmakers ' response to President Barack Obama 's $ 3.6 trillion budget proposal released in February .
Lawmakers will use this resolution as an outline for actual spending legislation later this year .
Opposition Republican lawmakers in both chambers accused Democrats of approving a budget that they say will hurt the economy in the long-run and saddle future generations with too much debt .
The budget outline will help Mr. Obama pursue his ambitious agenda , including promoting energy independence , clean energy , a more competitive education system and health care reform .
The families of two U.S. soldiers who were captured in Iraq say the soldiers ' remains have been found more than a year after they disappeared .
The families of Private Byron Fouty and Sergeant Alex Jimenez said Friday that the U.S. Army notified them of the soldiers ' deaths this week .
They say the men were identified by their dental records .
The soldiers were captured in May of 2007 when their unit was ambushed near Baghdad .
The body of a third soldier kidnapped in the same attack was recovered earlier this year from the Euphrates River .
Four other U.S. soldiers and an Iraqi were killed in the ambush .
Officials in Afghanistan say suspected Taleban rebels have killed a candidate in the country 's upcoming legislative election .
Authorities say National Assembly candidate Abdul Hadi was shot dead late Thursday in front of his house in southern Helmand province .
At least six candidates and several poll workers have been murdered ahead of Sunday 's ballot .
The Taleban , who have denounced the polls , have claimed responsibility for several of the killings .
In Kabul , senior U.N. envoy to Afghanistan Filippo Grandi said murders and intimidation continue to be a serious obstacle to free and fair elections , but stressed the attacks have not derailed the electoral process .
Campaigning officially ended Thursday , with electoral officials racing to educate more than 12 million Afghans on the voting process prior to the balloting .
Indonesian police say masked gunmen shot and wounded a Christian couple in the latest violence to hit the restive province of Central Sulawesi .
Police said Sunday a university lecturer and his wife were shot late Saturday on their way home from a church service in the provincial capital Palu .
The shooting was the latest in a series of violent incidents to hit Central Sulawesi .
Late last month , unidentified assailants beheaded three Christian teenage girls in Poso , about 100 kilometers east of Palu .
Two other girls , a Muslim and a Christian , were seriously wounded by gun-wielding assailants in the same city earlier this month .
Conflict between Muslims and Christians has left more than 1,000 people dead in the province since 2000 .
Palestinian officials say jailed uprising leader Marwan Barghouti has dropped plans to run for president .
Officials from the main Fatah faction Friday said Palestinian cabinet minister Kadoura Fares had visited Barghouti in his Israeli prison to dissuade him from running in the January 9 poll .
The officials say Mr. Fares ' message was that Barghouti 's participation in the race could threaten the unity of Fatah and the success of the vote to elect a successor to the late Yasser Arafat .
Fatah has chosen former Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas as its presidential candidate .
Barghouti had previously said he would not run if Fatah nominated Mr. Abbas .
Barghouti is a popular Palestinian politician .
He is serving five life sentences in an Israeli prison for the murder of five people .
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy , saying that of all animals he was the most tender in his regard for man , for he had such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body .
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear , " Oh ! that you would eat the dead and not the living . "
An audiotape purportedly from al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden threatens new attacks against the United States .
The tape 's authenticity has not been confirmed .
It says there are plans for a new attack in the United States , but offers a " long-term " truce if American forces pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan .
The White House flatly rejected the purported offer , with a spokesman saying the United States does not negotiate with terrorists .
The message says heightened security in the United States has not prevented attacks .
It says the delay is simply due to preparations for new operations .
Arab broadcaster Al-Jazeera first broadcast selections from the recording earlier Thursday .
There has been no specific information on when the tape was recorded , but the voice makes reference to sinking public opinion polls for President Bush .
Witnesses in Somalia say the brother of the country 's deputy prime minister has been shot dead by government forces .
The witnesses say the brother , Abukar Abdisalam , was talking on a mobile phone outside his home in the capital , Mogadishu , when government troops became suspicious , chased him and shot him .
Abdisalam is a brother of Ahmed Abdisalam Adan , who is also the country 's information minister .
The motive for the shooting is unclear .
The U.S. Justice Department says authorities have arrested 485 people in a major crackdown on mortgage fraud .
Attorney General Eric Holder said Thursday the suspects in " Operation Stolen Dreams " were responsible for $ 2.3 billion in losses .
He noted one scheme that targeted the Haitian-American community .
He said the defendants would claim to offer immigration and housing assistance , and then use the victims ' personal information to obtain mortgage loans .
Holder said these schemes ruin people 's lives and are dangerous to the economy .
The operation was organized after huge losses from home loans in the United States triggered a broader economic crisis .
Equatorial Guinea gained independence in 1968 after 190 years of Spanish rule .
This tiny country , composed of a mainland portion plus five inhabited islands , is one of the smallest on the African continent .
President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO has ruled the country since 1979 when he seized power in a coup .
Although nominally a constitutional democracy since 1991 , the 1996 , 2002 , and 2009 presidential elections - as well as the 1999 , 2004 , and 2008 legislative elections - were widely seen as flawed .
The president exerts almost total control over the political system and has discouraged political opposition .
Equatorial Guinea has experienced rapid economic growth due to the discovery of large offshore oil reserves , and in the last decade has become Sub-Saharan Africa 's third largest oil exporter .
Despite the country 's economic windfall from oil production resulting in a massive increase in government revenue in recent years , improvements in the population 's living standards have been slow to develop .
A U.S. businessman and a former occupation official in Iraq have been charged in a scheme in which coalition authorities were bribed in exchange for reconstruction contracts .
U.S. authorities Thursday announced that Robert Stein , who worked with the Coalition Provisional Authority , is one of the officials who received kickbacks from American businessman Philip Bloom .
Mr. Bloom , who authorities say controlled three companies , was charged late Wednesday in Washington federal court with paying hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes and kickbacks to U.S. occupation officials in Iraq and their spouses .
A government affidavit says the contracts secured by Mr. Bloom were awarded in early 2004 and were worth about $ 3.5 million .
There have been allegations of corruption in the coalition government , which ran Iraq from just after the March 2003 invasion until June 2004 .
A U.S. Appeals Court has turned down a government request to change the status of American terror suspect Jose Padilla until the Supreme Court hears his case .
The Bush administration had sought to have Mr. Padilla transferred from military to civilian custody .
The court said the request could be seen as an attempt by the government to avoid a Supreme Court ruling on the case .
Mr. Padilla has been held as what the government calls an enemy combatant for more than three years without trial .
His lawyers question the administration 's authority to detain him under such conditions .
The judge who wrote the ruling Wednesday argued that the case was of sufficient national importance to warrant the Supreme Court 's consideration .
Human rights groups and Bush administration critics have denounced imprisoning terror suspects without the promise of a trial .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard says his government will send an extra 150 soldiers to Afghanistan to protect an Australian reconstruction team that will arrive in the country next month .
Mr. Howard told parliament Wednesday the additional troops are necessary because of escalating violence in southern and central Afghanistan .
The reinforcements will protect a team of 240 Australian reconstruction workers , due to join a Dutch-led humanitarian project in the southern Afghan province of Uruzgan .
The Australian military will also send more armored vehicles to Afghanistan as part of the extra troop deployment .
Australia already has more than 300 troops in Afghanistan , including 190 special forces and two Chinook helicopters .
Spokesman for Australia 's opposition Labor Party , Kevin Rudd , expressed deep concern about the safety of Australian forces in Afghanistan , saying the country remains a center of terrorist activity .
Canberra announced plans to send the reconstruction team to Afghanistan in May .
U.S. investigators say they have cracked one of the biggest Wall Street insider trading rings since the 1980s .
Prosecutors have arrested 13 people who are believed to have made as much as $ 15 million from insider trading schemes .
Some of those arrested are from Wall Street 's top banks .
Employees from Bank of America , Morgan Stanley and UBS were accused Thursday of engaging in improper trading , conspiracy , fraud and bribery .
Authorities say UBS Securities executive Mitchel Guttenberg is among those who face charges .
They say he sold information to traders about the company 's stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS analysts .
Authorities say the investigation has gone on for more than a year .
The Securities and Exchange Commission has filed civil charges against 11 people and three entities allegedly involved in the case .
Australia 's abundant and diverse natural resources attract high levels of foreign investment and include extensive reserves of coal , iron ore , copper , gold , natural gas , uranium , and renewable energy sources .
A series of major investments , such as the US $ 40 billion Gorgon Liquid Natural Gas project , will significantly expand the resources sector .
Australia also has a large services sector and is a significant exporter of natural resources , energy , and food .
Key tenets of Australia 's trade policy include support for open trade and the successful culmination of the Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations , particularly for agriculture and services .
The Australian economy grew for 17 consecutive years before the global financial crisis .
Subsequently , the Rudd government introduced a fiscal stimulus package worth over US $ 50 billion to offset the effect of the slowing world economy , while the Reserve Bank of Australia cut interest rates to historic lows .
These policies - and continued demand for commodities , especially from China - helped the Australian economy rebound after just one quarter of negative growth .
The economy grew by 1.2 % during 2009 - the best performance in the OECD - and by 3.3 % in 2010 .
Unemployment , originally expected to reach 8-10 % , peaked at 5.7 % in late 2009 and fell to 5.1 % in 2010 .
As a result of an improved economy , the budget deficit is expected to peak below 4.2 % of GDP and the government could return to budget surpluses as early as 2015 .
Australia was one of the first advanced economies to raise interest rates , with seven rate hikes between October 2009 and November 2010 .
The GILLARD government is focused on raising Australia 's economic productivity to ensure the sustainability of growth , and continues to manage the symbiotic , but sometimes tense , economic relationship with China .
Australia is engaged in the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks and ongoing free trade agreement negotiations with China , Japan , and Korea .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says Israel will not keep all Jewish settlements in the West Bank in any final peace deal with the Palestinians .
But Mr. Sharon ruled out another unilateral pullback like last week 's in the Gaza Strip .
He says any future settlement evacuations will be the result of negotiations with the Palestinians under the international road map peace plan .
He also told Israeli television that all main West Bank settlements will remain under Israeli control .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said it is essential that Israel stop expanding West Bank settlements in order for both sides to return to peace talks .
He spoke after meeting with European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana .
Dutch oil giant Shell says it has resumed normal production at a Nigerian oilfield that was shut down last month after militants took four oil workers hostage .
Shell officials say the offshore EA oilfield is back to producing about 115,000 barrels of crude per day .
The hostages were captured from a boat working the field on January 11 .
They were freed Monday after spending 19 days in captivity .
Militants seeking greater local control over oil wealth in southern Nigeria have threatened more attacks on oil workers and facilities in the region .
A string of recent attacks , some of which were deadly , has contributed to a rise in world oil prices .
Indonesian officials say a 32-year-old woman from an area just west of the capital of Jakarta has died of bird flu .
The health ministry said in a statement Monday that the woman died at her home in the city of Tangerang last Thursday , after her family ignored doctors ' orders and checked her out of a hospital .
The statement said the woman 's family kept chickens in their backyard .
Humans are usually infected with bird flu by direct contact with infected poultry , but experts fear the H5N1 virus may mutate into a form easily transmitted between people .
Scientists fear such a mutation could spark a global pandemic with a potential death toll of millions .
A Turkish official says a key protocol with the European Union should be finalized after talks Wednesday between top British and Turkish officials .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Namik Tan did not say when the customs accord will be signed , but EU and Turkish diplomats are quoted as saying it would be in the next days .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan meets with his British counterpart , Tony Blair , Wednesday in London .
Britain holds the rotating EU presidency .
The accord would extend a Turkish-EU customs union accord to Cyprus , but the Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman said Ankara would include a declaration saying it does not recognize the Greek Cypriot government .
Turkey only recognizes the Turkish enclave in northern Cyprus .
Turkey and the European Union are expected to begin accession talks in October .
The World Bank has approved a series of loans aimed at economic development and poverty reduction in Latin American .
In a series of statements issued Tuesday in Washington , the bank announced loan programs to Argentina , Peru and Brazil .
The bank approved a $ 200 million loan to Argentina designed to improve infrastructure in the Province of Buenos Aires .
The improvements include road , water , sewerage and drainage construction .
Another $ 200 million loan was approved for Peru to improve social programs for the poor and enhance the nation 's economic competitiveness .
And a $ 4.8 million loan was awarded to Brazil 's northern Amapa state .
The loan will subsidize a program designed to reduce rural and urban poverty through environmentally sustainable projects around the Amazon river .
Zimbabwe says it is appealing a court decision to acquit opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai of charges of plotting to kill President Robert Mugabe .
Acting Attorney-General Bharat Patel said the government has filed papers asking the Supreme Court to review the verdict in the treason trial against Mr. Tsvangirai .
In October , Zimbabwe 's High Court rejected the case , saying prosecutors had failed to enter evidence showing Mr. Tsvangirai was involved in the alleged plot .
The opposition leader has denied the charges , saying the trial was an attempt by the government to silence its critics .
Mr. Tsvangirai also faces treason charges in a separate trial linked to opposition protests last year .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court has rejected at least two complaints of election fraud filed by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
The court was expected to rule Thursday on a total of four complaints by Mr. Yanukovych , who lost Sunday 's presidential runoff vote .
Mr. Yanukovych alleges there were thousands of election violations and is refusing to concede defeat to his rival , opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko .
Observers say the appeals are unlikely to change the election results because Mr. Yanukovych lacks popular support and because the number of irregularities was not enough to narrow the gap between the two candidates .
Official results released Tuesday show Mr. Yushchenko won the runoff with 52 percent of the vote , to 44 percent for the prime minister .
A JUDGE was awakened by the noise of a lawyer prosecuting a Thief .
Rising in wrath he was about to sentence the Thief to life imprisonment when the latter said :
" I beg that you will set me free , and I will some day requite your kindness . "
Pleased and flattered to be bribed , although by nothing but an empty promise , the Judge let him go.
Soon afterward he found that it was more than an empty promise , for , having become a Thief , he was himself set free by the other , who had become a Judge .
Turkish media report police have detained nearly 30 people suspected of links to the al-Qaida terror network .
Turkey 's state news agency , Anatolia , quoted a local governor as saying 28 suspects were nabbed in simultaneous operations in several districts of Eskisehir province Thursday .
Governor Mehmet Kiliclar said they are now being questioned by police .
In January this year , a suspected al-Qaida terrorist was killed , and three were captured , in a shootout with police during a robbery attempt in Istanbul .
Al-Qaida was blamed for a series of bomb attacks in Istanbul that killed more than 60 people in 2003 .
Ukraine 's parliament has set the inauguration of President-elect Viktor Yushchenko for Sunday .
Thursday 's decision came hours after the Supreme Court threw out the final legal appeal by former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who alleged that last month 's election was fraudulent .
Chief Justice Anatoly Varema calls the court 's decision final .
Mr. Yanukovych has finally conceded defeat , telling Ukrainian television Thursday that the election campaign is over .
He called on supporters to end their protests and begin what he calls a new political struggle .
But his legal team plans to appeal the election to the European Court of Human Rights .
Meanwhile , Russian President Vladimir Putin , who backed Mr. Yanukovych , congratulated Mr. Yushchenko .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell will travel to Kiev for Sunday 's inauguration .
NATO is sending Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer .
Joseph Wilson , the husband of Valerie Plame , the Central Intelligence Agency operative exposed by a newspaper article in 2003 , says his wife received specific threats after her identity was revealed .
Mr. Wilson spoke to the CBS television program " 60 Minutes , " which released excerpts of his interview in advance of Sunday evening 's broadcast .
According to CBS , Mr. Wilson said he could not go into detail about the threats .
He told the network that he and his wife have discussed her security with several agencies .
Mr. Wilson said that before Ms. Plame 's identity was published by a newspaper columnist , very few people outside the intelligence community knew she worked for the C.I.A .
Mr. Wilson has said his wife was exposed to discredit him after he criticized the Bush administration 's rationale for the war in Iraq .
Sudan 's Foreign Ministry says six Sudanese , including a diplomat , have been kidnapped in Iraq .
The ministry says the victims were seized in Baghdad after attending prayers Friday .
The abducted diplomat was identified as the second secretary at Sudan 's mission in Baghdad .
Meanwhile , thousands of Sunni Arabs demonstrated in Baghdad , Tikrit and Mosul to protest what they said were flawed December 15 parliamentary elections .
Preliminary results show a strong lead for the main Shi'ite coalition .
Elsewhere , insurgents ambushed an Iraqi checkpoint in Adhaim , about 70 kilometers north of Baghdad , killing eight Iraqi soldiers and wounding 17 .
A suicide bomber also killed at least three people at a Shi'ite mosque in Balad Ruz , about 75 kilometers northeast of Baghdad .
The U.S. military also says two U.S. soldiers were killed Friday when their vehicle struck a roadside bomb in Baghdad .
Police in Sweden have arrested a man suspected of planning an attack in Somalia , the second such arrest there within a month .
The Swedish security police say the man , a Swedish citizen , was detained in the capital of Stockholm on Tuesday .
Police did not give the man 's name but said his arrest is linked to that of another Swedish national in the city of Gothenburg in May .
They say other people will be questioned in connection with the investigation .
Swedish authorities have expressed concern about Somali militant groups recruiting fighters from the country 's Somali immigrant population .
Over the past two decades , tens of thousands of Somalis have fled to Scandinavia to escape war and poverty in their homeland .
Economic reports paint a mixed picture of the U.S. economy , with manufacturing rising and construction dropping .
Monday 's report from the Institute for Supply Management says an index of manufacturing rose 2.3 percentage points in December .
Factories are apparently boosting production to meet growing demand from government stimulus programs .
Demand is also helped by businesses that are rebuilding inventories that were drastically cut during the worst of the economic crisis .
A separate government report shows a very different trend .
The latest figures from the U.S. Commerce Department show construction falling to the lowest level in six years .
November 's data show a .6 percent decline for the month , which is the seventh drop in as many months .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is to travel to India this week to discuss arms sales to New Delhi and Pakistan .
Mr. Rumsfeld is expected to discuss US-India relations when he meets with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday in New Delhi .
India wants to buy the Patriot missile system , which can defend against ballistic and cruise missiles , and aircraft .
India also is expected to raise its concern over Pakistan 's request to buy up to 25 F-16 fighter jets from the United States .
Indian and Pakistani media say the prospect of American arms sales has stirred up opposition in both South Asian countries .
The two nuclear-armed rivals , which have fought three wars in the past five decades , are currently in peace talks over all outstanding issues .
France , Germany and Britain have warned Iran it will answer to the United Nations Security Council if it resumes uranium enrichment activities that the United States says could produce fuel for nuclear bombs .
In a letter , foreign ministers from the three countries told top Iranian negotiator Hassan Rowhani that they will break off months of bilateral talks aimed at ending disputes over the nature of Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
The matter would then be referred to the Security Council for possible sanctions .
In Tehran , Mr. Rowhani is quoted as saying Iran will no longer respect the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty if it is denied the right to develop a full civilian nuclear energy program .
The United States accuses Iran of clandestine efforts to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran has repeatedly denied the charge .
The U.S. military says Afghan police killed a senior militant commander this week in the central province of Ghazni .
A military statement says Abdul Baki was killed Wednesday while police were conducting a search of his residence .
The statement says Baki was the top militant commander in Ghazni 's Andar district , leading a cell of 20 to 30 fighters who coordinated and carried out attacks on troops and government officials .
The statement says Baki attacked Afghan police with small-arms fire as they entered his residence .
The military says Afghan police discovered 50 voter registration cards in the compound .
Authorities believe the cards were taken from villagers in order to prevent them from voting in the planned August presidential elections .
In a separate incident in Ghazni Wednesday , the U.S. military said seven militants were killed during an operation to cut the flow of weapons and fighters into eastern Afghanistan .
An Afghan official says the country has made significant progress in its war on drugs .
The deputy interior minister for counternarcotics , General Mohammed Daoud , says anti-drug forces confiscated 40 tons of opium in the first five months of this year , compared to 135 tons during last full year and 10 tons in 2003 .
His comments follow U.S. criticism of the Afghan anti-opium program , and President Hamid Karzai 's recent visit to Washington , where he promised to eradicate Afghan poppy production in the next six years .
Afghanistan is the world 's largest producer of opium .
Washington is pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into Afghanistan 's anti-drug efforts , saying the opium growing industry is now a bigger threat there than the remaining Taleban-led militants .
One of the defendants on trial for conspiracy in the assassination of reformist Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic has implicated the leader 's former deputy in the plot .
Dejan " Bugsy " Milenkovic told a Belgrade court Thursday that Nebojsa Covic was aware of the conspiracy .
He said Mr. Djindjic 's sworn enemy , ultranationalist leader Vojislav Seselj , also was aware of the plot .
Seselj is on trial for war crimes in the Hague .
Covic has denied any involvement .
Officials of Seselj 's Radical Party dismissed the allegations against him .
Milenkovic is one of 13 suspects on trial for their roles in the assassination of Mr. Djindjic outside government offices in Belgrade in 2003 .
Mr. Djindjic was one of the leaders of the pro-democracy movement that toppled former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic in 2000 .
He was also instrumental in extraditing the former leader to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
U.S. senators say security at the country 's borders and ports must be strengthened after a federal investigation revealed critical gaps at two border checkpoints .
The Senate 's Homeland Security Subcommittee Tuesday is hearing testimony from security officials on the need to speed up improvements in preventing dangerous materials from entering the country .
A report by Congress 's investigative department says federal investigators tested security at U.S. checkpoints in December and successfully smuggled in enough radioactive material to produce two so-called " dirty bombs . "
The report says border guards had detected the radioactive material using newly installed equipment , but failed to recognize that investigators used counterfeit documents to transport the material .
A Republican senator says U.S. cargo security measures now suffer from " a massive blind spot . "
French officials say they want to get in contact with al-Qaida-linked militants in hopes of gaining the release of five French nationals and two Africans kidnapped in Niger last week .
Defense Minister Herve Morin said Thursday that France has every reason to believe the hostages are still alive and that they probably have been taken to northern Mali .
France has flown search missions over the Sahara in hopes of locating the victims .
North Africa 's al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb claimed responsibility for the kidnapping .
The hostages include two employees of the French nuclear energy firm Areva and five with a subsidiary of the French construction company Vinci .
The group has warned the French government against doing what it described as anything " stupid . "
The al-Qaida group has carried out previous kidnappings in the region , including that of a 78-year-old Frenchman who was abducted in Niger in April and later killed .
Palestinian officials said President Mahmoud Abbas will meet with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington on May 28 .
On Tuesday , the White House announced Mr. Obama has invited the Israeli , Palestinian and Egyptian leaders for talks in the coming weeks .
President Obama has said he expects the Israelis and Palestinians to make " gestures of good faith " in the coming months , in an effort to revive the Middle East peace process .
Mr. Obama said he is a strong supporter of a two-state solution and that perpetuating the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not in the interest of the people in the region .
" The Washington Post " on Wednesday quoted top Israeli officials as saying they will not move ahead on the peace talks until they see progress on U.S. efforts to stop Iran 's suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons and limit Tehran 's regional influence .
A new report says the industrial world 's economy is recovering faster than expected , but still faces risks from the debt crisis and the possible overheating of emerging economies .
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , which includes the world 's 30 richest nations , says its member economies will grow 2.7 percent this year , which is eight-tenths of a percentage point faster than earlier predictions .
The OECD says the nations that use the euro will expand more slowly ( 1.2 percent ) .
The report 's authors call on European nations to take " bolder " measures to cope with debt and other issues .
The report also says trade flows are rising again and strong growth in China and other emerging nations is helping to pull other countries out of recession .
But the OECD cautions that emerging economies should be careful to avoid the threat of inflation .
Chinese officials say a gas explosion that tore through a mine shaft in northern China has killed at least 16 miners and left at least seven others missing .
The official Xinhua news agency says 83 miners were in the mine at the time of Wednesday 's explosion in Shanxi province , but 54 escaped .
Shanxi province is one of China 's biggest coal-producing regions , and mining accidents are common .
China has the most dangerous mining industry in the world .
At least 6,000 Chinese mine workers died on the job last year .
The U.S. ambassador to Nepal has urged King Gyanendra to reconcile with the nation 's political parties , warning that Nepal could " slide toward confrontation , confusion and chaos . "
Speaking in Kathmandu late Tuesday , Ambassador James Moriarty said the royal palace should reach out to political parties " with sincere proposals " that reflect a common agenda of multi-party democracy and constitutional monarchy .
Nepal 's king seized absolute power on February 1 , saying the move was necessary to end government corruption and quell the nine-year-old Maoist insurgency .
Meanwhile , Nepal 's army troops are continuing a search for soldiers missing since Sunday 's fierce clash with the rebels in a remote western district .
Tuesday , the army said it found the bodies of 40 soldiers and 76 were still missing .
The rebels say they have killed 159 troops and captured another 50 .
The army rejects the claim .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says five American and one Afghan soldiers were injured in two incidents when their helicopters were forced to make emergency landings after being hit by ground fire .
The military says the attacks on the ( CH-47 ) Chinook helicopters occurred Sunday in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Uruzgan - both hotbeds of Taleban insurgents and their allies .
In a separate attack Sunday , three American soldiers were wounded in a roadside bomb blast in Zabul - also in southern Afghanistan .
The military says the wounded soldiers are in stable condition .
In another incident , a suicide attacker killed a civilian when he blew himself up near a coalition troop convoy in Kandahar .
Haitian President Rene Preval has chosen an official with the Inter-American Development Bank to be the country 's new prime minister .
Reports from Port-au-Prince say President Preval named Ericq Pierre to the post Sunday .
Mr. Pierre 's appointment must be ratified by legislators .
Earlier this month , lawmakers dismissed Prime Minister Jacques Edouard Alexis to quell violent protests over rising food prices in the impoverished Caribbean nation .
The legislators said Mr. Alexis had not done enough to improve the economy or keep soaring food prices under control .
At least six people , including a United Nations peacekeeper , were killed as violence erupted in the capital as well as the city of Les Cayes over the cost of food .
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has a history of political turmoil .
THE LION , the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist each other in the chase .
Having secured a large booty , the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty .
The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice .
The Lion , bursting out into a great rage , devoured the Ass .
Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division .
The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel .
The Lion said , " Who has taught you , my very excellent fellow , the art of division ? You are perfect to a fraction . "
He replied , " I learned it from the Ass , by witnessing his fate . "
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others .
Intelligence officials in Pakistan say a suspected U.S. drone has fired missiles into a Taliban training camp in northwest Pakistan , killing as many as 14 militants .
Officials say the attack took place Tuesday in South Waziristan , along the country 's border with Afghanistan .
The area is a stronghold of Baitullah Mehsud , a top Taliban leader and al-Qaida ally wanted by both Pakistan and the United States .
Mehsud is blamed for scores of attacks against government and civilian targets , and is believed to be a key facilitator for al-Qaida fighters in Pakistan .
Pakistan 's military has been fighting Taliban militants throughout the country 's northwest for more than two months .
Islamabad deployed soldiers there to stop insurgents from fleeing into Pakistan after a major U.S. offensive against the Taliban in Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province , which borders Pakistan .
A new public opinion poll shows that Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 's popularity has fallen but remains strong despite a bribes-for-votes scandal surrounding his government .
The Datafolha poll shows the number of people who believe the president is honest has fallen 11 percentage points in little more than a month to 62 percent .
Mr. da Silva himself has not been accused of wrongdoing .
The survey also says the government 's approval rating remains nearly unchanged , dropping one percentage point to 35 percent .
The Datafolha company polled more than 2,000 Brazilians for the survey .
The scandal erupted when the ruling Workers Party was accused of paying lawmakers $ 12,000 a month to win their support .
The party denies the allegations , which caused some government officials to step down .
Despite the scandal , surveys have shown that Mr. da Silva is still the favorite to win the 2006 presidential election .
The grandmother of U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama has died from cancer .
Obama announced the death of long-ailing 86-year-old Madelyn Dunham Monday , just one day before voters went to the polls to elect a new president .
The Democratic candidate cried at a rally in North Carolina Monday when talking about the death of his grandmother , who helped raise him .
Obama suspended his campaign for two days last month to visit Dunham in the U.S. Pacific island state of Hawaii .
He said he feared she might not survive to see the historic election .
But although she did not live to see the outcome , Dunham 's vote - an absentee ballot - will count .
Obama faces Republican Senator John McCain in the election Tuesday .
The U.S. State Department has renewed a warning to U.S. citizens about the dangers of traveling in Colombia .
The department issued an updated travel warning for Colombia Friday .
It said there is potential for violence by terrorists and other criminals in all parts of the South American country .
According to the travel warning , violence has decreased in many urban areas , but small towns and rural areas can still be extremely dangerous .
The State Department also said kidnapping in Colombia has decreased from its peak at the beginning of the decade .
However , it said groups such as the FARC and the ELN , which are classified as terrorist groups by the United States , continue to kidnap civilians for ransom and political bargaining power .
On July 2 , the government of Colombia rescued 15 hostages who had been held for more than five years .
Three of the hostages were Americans .
Billionaire investor says the U.S. economy could fall into recession in 2007 .
He spoke in Singapore on Monday , and said the U.S. central bank could spark the downturn by raising interest rates too high , crimping the U.S. housing market .
High U.S. housing prices are a key reason that rising energy prices did not derail economic growth last year .
The U.S. Federal Reserve has been boosting interest rates steadily in a bid to fend off inflation , but Soros expects that campaign to end after two more quarter-point rate hikes ( at 4.75 percent ) .
The U.S. economy is the world 's largest , and Soros says a U.S. recession could slow global economic growth .
He also said future global growth could come from Asia , and urged Asian governments to encourage domestic demand to reduce their dependence on exports .
Surrounded by election staff and bodyguards , former commander of Iran 's elite Revolutionary Guard , Mohsen Rezaei , seated , registers as a presidential candidate in Tehran A hard-line conservative candidate says he is withdrawing from Iran 's presidential election .
Mohsen Rezaei Wednesday said he is dropping out to avoid splitting voter support among several conservative candidates .
The announcement comes just two days before Friday 's poll .
His exit leaves three hard-line conservatives in the race , as well as leading reform candidate Mostafa Moin , former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , and other lesser-known presidential hopefuls .
President Mohammad Khatami is barred from running for a third consecutive term .
Final results from Iraq 's provincial elections show Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's allies have strengthened their standing across the country .
Candidates backed by the moderate Shi'ite prime minister dominated in the capital , Baghdad , and were victorious over other more sectarian Shi'ite rivals across southern Iraq .
The results released Thursday also showed that Sunni Arab tribal leaders who rose up against insurgents won the most seats in the western province of Anbar .
The tribal chiefs won eight out of 29 provincial council seats in last month 's elections .
The vote in 14 of Iraq 's 18 provinces was seen as a referendum on Mr. Maliki 's leadership ahead of national parliamentary elections later this year .
Polling is to take place later in the three Kurdish provinces of northern Iraq , as well as the disputed oil-rich region of Kirkuk .
If you love something , set it free .
If it comes back , it was and always will be yours .
If it never returns , it was never yours to begin with .
If it just sits in your living room and messes up your stuff , eats your food , uses your telephone , takes your money and never behaves as if you actually set it free in the first place -- you either married it or gave birth to it !
Suspected Islamic militants have attacked security forces on both sides of the Afghanistan - Pakistan border .
Officials in Pakistan 's North Waziristan tribal region say at least eight militants were killed in a gunfight with Pakistani troops Tuesday near the area 's main town of Miran Shah .
The militants ambushed a security convoy and killed one soldier before the troops returned fire .
Earlier , militants shot to death two police officers in Miran Shah .
In neighboring Afghanistan , officials say suspected Taleban militants attacked a police post and a government office near the Pakistani border .
Two police officers were killed .
Authorities say several Taleban were also killed , but it is not clear how many .
Militants linked to the Taleban and al-Qaida have been active along Pakistan 's rugged northwestern border with Afghanistan since a U.S.-led invasion forced the Taleban from power in Afghanistan in late 2001 .
The U.S. Congress is considering an additional $ 51.8 billion in emergency aid for Hurricane Katrina relief operations .
After talks with President Bush at the White House Thursday , Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said Congress is responding aggressively to the disaster , and working to address the short and long-term needs of the victims .
Meanwhile , Senate Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid accused Republicans of having a flawed plan for recovery , saying most of the money should not go to the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
Opposition Democrats and others have slammed FEMA for what they say was a slow response to the disaster .
The Bush administration says the spending bill is the latest installment in a costly relief effort .
President Bush last week signed an aid package of $ 10.5 billion .
A congressman from South Carolina has urged his colleagues and President Bush to provide better equipment to troops in Iraq .
Representative Jim Clyburn said in the Democratic party 's weekly radio address that U.S. soldiers should never lack proper equipment nor accurate intelligence .
Mr. Clyburn also said he opposed attempts to invest Social Security on the stock market , calling proposed plans a gamble that could jeopardize benefits for children .
He also called for expanding health insurance coverage and making college education more affordable .
Latin America enjoyed robust economic growth last year , but a new report by the Inter-American Development Bank warns that several factors could reverse that trend in 2005 .
The IADB says Latin American nations ' overall economic growth was 5.5 percent in 2004 , thanks to China 's increasing demand for raw materials , including steel .
However , Beijing has taken several steps to slow its economy , which grew to by 9.5 percent last year , which the bank says will have an immediate effect on global trade and the price of commodities .
In addition to a possible economic slowdown by China , the Inter-American Development Bank says , rising U.S. interest rates and a falling dollar could affect Latin America , where many countries already have massive levels of public debt .
Tens of thousands of Georgian opposition demonstrators have marched through the Georgian capital to protest final parliamentary election results they say unfairly favored the ruling party .
Protesters marched Monday in Tbilisi , shortly after a military parade marking Georgia 's Independence Day .
Final results from the May 21 polls show President Mikhail Saakashvili 's United National Movement party winning 120 of 150 parliamentary seats .
Last week , opposition leader Levan Gachechiladze said his United Opposition Council will not take its 16 seats in the legislature to protest election results .
Monday he said his supporters will try to prevent the new parliament from convening , by force if necessary .
Observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe noted a number of problems , including pre-election intimidation of candidates and procedural shortcomings in the vote count .
However , they stopped short of rejecting the poll results .
NATO has detained a former Bosnian Serb policeman suspected of helping war crimes suspects .
NATO said Friday it suspects Dusan Tesic had valuable information about a network officials say has aided indicted war criminals .
But it did not say whom he is suspected of helping .
It was the second time this year NATO has held Mr. Tesic for questioning .
Thursday , the head of European Union peacekeepers in Bosnia said he was closing a bunker believed to have sheltered General Ratko Mladic , the former Bosnian Serb commander .
Meanwhile , the French news agency says Serbia has decided to give the guarantees needed for the release of two war crimes suspects until their trial .
Serb ultra-nationalist Vojislav Seselj and General Dragomir Milosevic have been held in The Hague .
The U.S. Gulf Coast is bracing for Hurricane Katrina as it strengthens after pummeling southeastern Florida with strong winds and sheets of rain .
At least seven people have been killed in the storm , which came ashore Thursday , dumping several centimeters of rain in its path and triggering widespread flooding .
Hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses lost power and an overpass under construction in the Miami area collapsed onto a main east-west highway .
Katrina was briefly downgraded to a tropical storm as it crossed land , but it has turned into a stronger hurricane while moving over the warm Gulf waters .
At last report , the 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season was 97 kilometers west-northwest of Key West .
Katrina was moving slowly in a west-northwesterly direction at 13 kilometers per hour .
Ukrainian authorities have imposed a quarantine on districts of Crimea affected by the country 's first outbreak of bird flu .
Officials ordered the slaughter of all poultry in five affected villages after officials confirmed the discovery of dead birds infected with an H5 strain of bird flu .
Authorities are now sending samples to Britain and Italy to determine whether it is the deadly H5N1 strain that has killed nearly 70 people in Asia since 2003 .
In Indonesia , officials said the World Health Organization has confirmed the country 's eighth human death from bird flu .
The officials said Saturday tests conducted at a laboratory in Hong Kong show that a 25-year-old woman who died earlier this week had the H5N1 strain .
Health experts fear the virus could mutate into a form that could be easily transmitted between humans and kill millions of people .
Iraq 's health minister says a girl who died earlier this month in northern Iraq was a victim of the deadly H5N1 strain of the bird flu - the first known case of the disease in the country .
Abdel Mutalib Mohammed told reporters Monday that new tests of the victim 's blood samples confirmed the Kurdish teenager had contracted the deadly strain .
Nearly two weeks ago , the World Health Organization said its tests for the virus were negative .
The girl died January 17th in the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniya , near the border with Turkey and Iran .
The death triggered concerns that infected birds from Turkey had begun spreading the virus in Iraq .
Diplomats say Southeast Asian nations are not able to agree on setting up a human rights commission , and on sanctions against members who fail to obey their regional bloc 's rules .
Negotiators meeting in the Philippines are rushing to complete a draft of the Association of Southeast Asian Nation 's first charter before foreign ministers from the 10-nation group meet Sunday .
The bloc has agreed on most of the charter , which will help to turn the group into a rules-based organization along the lines of the European Union .
A key sticking point is Burma , which has long been a problem for ASEAN , because of the country 's poor human rights record and its detention of activists , including Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi .
Until now , ASEAN has operated without a constitution , choosing to rely on informal diplomacy and decision-making by consensus .
Russia 's military chief , General Yuri Baluyevsky , has reiterated international calls that North Korea must remain free of nuclear weapons .
Mr. Baluyevsky spoke Monday during a meeting in Moscow with his Japanese counterpart , visiting Military Chief General Hajime Massaki .
He said it is the international community 's duty to prevent any nuclear tests on the Korean peninsula .
On Sunday , North Korea confirmed a meeting with U.S. officials held earlier this month .
The statement came days after U.S. officials announced they held a rare meeting with North Korean authorities at United Nations headquarters in New York , to urge Pyongyang to return to talks on ending its nuclear weapons program .
South Korea , China , Russia and Japan have also been calling on North Korea to re-join the six-nation talks .
Brazil 's state-run energy company , Petrobras , has awarded a major contract to a Chinese firm to build a gas pipeline between southeast and northeast Brazil .
Petrobras signed the $ 239-million deal with China 's state-run oil company , Sinopec , on Monday .
Under the contract , Sinopec will build a 300-kilometer stretch of pipeline in southeastern Brazil .
It will connect the gas fields in Rio de Janeiro state to the city of Vitoria ( in Espirito Santo state ) , farther north .
The pipeline will have a daily capacity of 20 million cubic meters of gas .
Brazil plans to extend the pipeline from Vitoria to the town of Catu , in northeastern state of Bahia , covering a total distance of 1,300 kilometers .
The entire project , known as Gasene , is aimed at improving gas distribution in northeastern Brazil .
The United Nations Security Council is stepping up pressure on Liberia to freeze the assets of accused former president Charles Taylor .
The 15-member Council on Friday approved a resolution on sanctions that aim to eliminate funds for conflicts through the sale of illegally mined diamonds .
Taylor allegedly used profits from so-called " blood diamonds " to fund years of civil war in Liberia and neighboring Sierra Leone .
The former Liberian president is facing 11 charges for allegedly instigating a rebel campaign of rape , murder and mutilation in neighboring Sierra Leone that killed more than 100,000 people during a decade-long civil war , which started in the late 1990s .
Taylor is currently on trial for war crimes in the Hague , the Netherlands .
The court has set February 8 for the prosecution and defense to start their concluding arguments .
At least 30,000 people attended the funeral Saturday of a Pakistani student who died in German police custody .
Twenty-eight-year-old Amir Cheema was arrested in March on charges of attempting to kill the editor of " Die Welt " newspaper for reprinting cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad , first published in Denmark last year .
German police say Cheema hanged himself in his Berlin jail on May 3 .
After Cheema 's body arrived in Lahore from Germany Saturday , a military helicopter flew his coffin to the family home in the village of Saroki .
Officials say the tens of thousands of mourners dispersed peacefully after the funeral .
Dozens of heads of state in the African continent are meeting in Abuja , Nigeria Sunday to discuss ways to bring peace and prosperity to the world 's most impoverished continent .
Among those attending the summit of the 53-member African Union are United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Nigerian President Olusegan Obasanjo , who is the head of the AU .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is attending his first African summit in a decade .
The two-day summit ending Monday will focus on solving ongoing conflicts in the Ivory Coast and the Democratic Republic of Congo , as well as the humanitarian crisis in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The leaders will also discuss a greater role for Africa on the U.N. Security Council under reforms planned for the 15-member body .
Turkey 's parliament on Tuesday extended the mandate that allows the military to strike at Kurdish separatist rebels based in neighboring northern Iraq .
The move to extend the mandate by one year coincides with Turkish government efforts to garner support for reforms to boost the rights of Kurds and encourage the rebels to lay down their arms .
Turkish warplanes and artillery units have staged a series of attacks on rebel bases in northern Iraq during the past two years , as part of Turkey 's battle against the outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey for 25 years .
The conflict has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey and much of the international community consider the PKK a terrorist group .
U.S. authorities say they have arrested a Mexican national alleged to be the leader of an international drug-trafficking ring .
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration says authorities arrested Augustin Haro-Rodriguez late Sunday as he tried to cross from Mexico into the southwestern U.S. state of Arizona .
An indictment unsealed after the arrest said Mr. Haro-Rodriguez 's organization smuggled nearly 5,000 kilograms of cocaine into the United States between March , 2004 , and July , 2005 .
Prosecutors say 17 members of the smuggling ring are now in custody .
If convicted , Mr. Haro-Rodriguez faces a possible sentence of life in prison .
China is defending its record of reporting human cases of bird flu following a newspaper report that local health officials may be hiding suspected cases .
China 's health ministry said Saturday that every human case of bird flu in China has been made public once confirmed .
On Thursday , the Asian edition of The Wall Street Journal reported that local health officials in China had failed to report possible human cases of bird flu to the central government .
China announced its first human bird flu case last November .
The country has reported 18 cases , including 12 deaths .
China was widely accused of suppressing information about the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) outbreak .
The outbreak infected more than eight-thousand people and killed nearly 800 , mostly in China , between late 2002 and mid-2003 .
Egypt 's President Hosni Mubarak says the militant Islamic group Hamas must recognize Israel if it wants to form a Palestinian government .
Mr. Mubarak spoke in an interview with an Israeli newspaper , Yedioth Ahronoth .
It is the first time that Egypt has laid down conditions for Hamas to form a government in the Palestinian territories .
At the same time , Egypt 's president asked Israel to be patient .
He said he was sure Hamas wants to live in peace and has no plans to establish a terrorist state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Hamas scored an overwhelming victory in Palestinian elections in January , trouncing the ruling Fatah party .
Fatah has indicated that it prefers not to participate in a Hamas-led government .
Egypt has been trying to mediate between Hamas and Fatah .
The U.S. Geological Survey has reported a 7.1 magnitude earthquake some 300 kilometers off the coast of eastern Indonesia .
Geologists say the quake is unlikely to cause a tsunami .
There were no reports of casualties or damage , but the French news agency , AFP , says the Wednesday evening quake sparked panic among residents in several Indonesian provinces .
People in Australia also reported feeling tremors .
Recovery workers in Indonesia are still pulling bodies from the rubble of cities devastated by the December 26 earthquake and tsunami .
Jakarta 's official death count widely varies , but well over 100,000 people in Indonesia are believed to have died in the disaster .
Suspected Taleban rebels have ambushed a convoy carrying the governor of Afghanistan 's Ghazni province .
Governor Sher Alam was not harmed in the attack Saturday , but the resulting shootout left at least two attackers dead .
In a separate incident Saturday , Taleban fighters are also being blamed for killing the former governor of Ghazni province , Taj Mohammed Qari Baba .
Three others , including Baba 's bodyguard , were killed in the attack .
Meanwhile , officials say a roadside bomb attack has killed at least nine police officers .
Authorities say the blast occurred Friday as police were transporting the bodies of four citizens of Macedonia kidnapped in the region a week ago by suspected Taleban rebels .
The four Macedonians , along with four Afghans who were abducted and later released , worked for a company that provided sanitation services at U.S. and Afghan military bases .
World oil prices hit new record highs Wednesday , as experts worried about production problems that could disrupt output .
Those concerns include refinery breakdowns and a worse-than-usual hurricane season that could threaten vital offshore wells .
The production problems come as traders say there is robust demand for oil from growing economies .
In New York , the price of crude oil for September delivery went as high as $ 62.47 a barrel .
London 's benchmark Brent contract also hit a new record high of $ 61.25 .
The press freedom organization Reporters Without Borders says it is concerned by what it calls the growing repression of journalists and cyber-dissidents in Iran .
In a report issued Sunday , the RSF ( Reporters Sans Frontieres ) announced the detention of five more journalists .
RSF says 41 journalists are currently imprisoned in Iran a month after the country 's contested election .
RSF says Iran is currently the world 's biggest prison for journalists , and is becoming the world 's most dangerous place for them to operate .
RSF says the recently-detained journalists include photographers Majid Saidi and Tohid Bighi , blogger Henghameh Shahidi , and journalists Somaieh Nosrati and Said Matinpour .
According to RSF , four of the five are being held in secret locations with no information about their condition being released to their families or legal representatives .
Indonesian health officials say former vice president Sudharmono has died at the age of 78 .
Officials say Sudharmono died Wednesday in a Jakarta hospital .
He had served as former president Suharto 's fourth vice president , from 1988 to 1993 .
Sudharmono was a retired army lieutenant general and later a chairman of the powerful Golkar party who aided in intelligence operations to help Suharto stamp out the communist party .
Sudharmono is survived by his wife and three children .
The Obama administration says it plans to approve more than $ 6 billion in arms sales to Taiwan .
The Pentagon 's Defense Cooperation Security Agency says it has notified Congress of possible sales that include 60 Black Hawk helicopters and technical and other related logistics support , worth an estimated $ 3.1 billion .
The agency says the possible sale includes 114 Patriot advanced capability missiles , radar sets and other related equipment and services , worth $ 2.8 billion , two Osprey class mine-hunting ships , and other related support and services , for an estimated cost of $ 105 million .
In the notification released Friday , the agency detailed other military hardware and services worth $ 37 million .
China considers self-ruled Taiwan as its sovereign territory , and usually reacts with anger at official contacts between the island and any nation .
Beijing has threatened to use military force if Taiwan attempts to claim formal independence .
An uneasy calm has settled over Nigeria , where more than 120 people have been killed in Muslim-Christian violence since Saturday .
Christian youths burned the corpses of Muslims Thursday in Onitsha , the site of riots on Tuesday and Wednesday .
Christian mobs in the city killed at least 80 people , mostly Muslims , in reprisal for rioting against Christians in Nigeria 's largely Muslim north .
More than 40 people , mainly Christians , died in riots on Saturday and Sunday .
Nigerian police have stepped up security across the country before Friday Muslim prayers , hoping to prevent further violence .
The sectarian riots began last Saturday in the northern city of Maiduguri during Muslim protests against Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
Pakistani authorities have released an alleged al-Qaida militant accused of involvement in a bomb attack against former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto last year .
A court in the city of Karachi ordered prison officials to release Qari Saifullah Akhtar Wednesday for lack of evidence .
But , the court also ruled that Akhtar must make himself available for further questioning if sufficient evidence is found .
Ms. Bhutto accused Akhtar of plotting the double suicide bombing of her homecoming parade in Karachi last October that killed about 140 people .
She made the accusation in a book written before her assassination in a December gun and bomb attack in Rawalpindi .
Pakistani authorities had detained Akhtar last month .
They also accuse him of attending al-Qaida training camps in Afghanistan before the fall of the Taliban in 2001 .
ome information for this report was provided by AFP .
Argentina has designated China as a " market economy , " a move that will limit the South American country 's ability to impose anti-dumping sanctions on Chinese exports .
The decision comes after China and Argentina signed accords that could bring more than $ 20 billion in Chinese investment to Argentina over the next 10 years .
Brazil also granted China " market economy " status during a visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao last week .
On Wednesday , Argentina 's agriculture department announced that China will increase imports of Argentine beef , apples and pears over the next few years .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have raided seven mosques believed to be providing support for insurgents in the restive western city of Ramadi .
The U.S. military says the operation is part of a joint effort to search for known terrorists and insurgents , as well as for illegal weapons .
Witnesses say soldiers arrested Sheikh Abdul Aleim Saadi , the region 's top Sunni Muslim cleric .
Also Tuesday , the United States said its warplanes conducted two strikes on buildings used by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror network in the western city of Fallujah .
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has claimed responsibility for numerous car bombings , kidnappings and beheadings in Iraq .
In the south , an explosion rocked the city of Basra .
It was not immediately clear what caused the blast .
There were no reports of casualties .
Israel has a technologically advanced market economy .
It depends on imports of crude oil , grains , raw materials , and military equipment .
Despite limited natural resources , Israel has intensively developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20 years .
Cut diamonds , high-technology equipment , and agricultural products ( fruits and vegetables ) are the leading exports .
Israel usually posts sizable trade deficits , which are covered by large transfer payments from abroad and by foreign loans .
Roughly half of the government 's external debt is owed to the US , its major source of economic and military aid .
Israel 's GDP , after contracting slightly in 2001 and 2002 due to the Palestinian conflict and troubles in the high-technology sector , grew about 5 % per year from 2004 - 07 .
The global financial crisis of 2008 - 09 spurred a brief recession in Israel , but the country entered the crisis with solid fundamentals - following years of prudent fiscal policy and a series of liberalizing reforms - and a resilient banking sector , and the economy has shown signs of an early recovery .
Following GDP growth of 4 % in 2008 , Israel 's GDP slipped to 0.2 % in 2009 , but reached 3.4 % in 2010 , as exports rebounded .
The global economic downturn affected Israel 's economy primarily through reduced demand for Israel 's exports in the United States and EU , Israel 's top trading partners .
Exports of goods and services account for about 40 % of the country 's GDP .
The Israeli Government responded to the recession by implementing a modest fiscal stimulus package and an aggressive expansionary monetary policy - including cutting interest rates to record lows , purchasing government bonds , and intervening in the foreign currency market .
The Bank of Israel began raising interest rates in the summer of 2009 when inflation rose above the upper end of the Bank 's target and the economy began to show signs of recovery .
Voters in Nepal have begun casting ballots in the country 's first nationwide municipal elections in seven years .
Security forces have been authorized to shoot anyone caught disrupting the controversial elections .
Heavily guarded polling stations opened early Wednesday , but so far only a handful of the country 's nearly two-million registered voters have turned out to vote .
Elections are taking place in only 36 of Nepal 's municipalities .
The remaining 22 either do not have anyone running , or candidates are running unopposed .
Nepal 's government says the polls are a step toward democracy .
But opposition parties and communist rebels call the elections a sham aimed at legitimizing King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power a year ago .
Rebels have threatened to harm anyone who participates in the vote .
India 's cricket team has scored 216-3 in response to Australia 's first innings total of 463 on the second day of the second test at the Sydney Cricket Ground .
V.V.S. Laxman and Rahul Dravid led the Indian counterattack with Laxman scoring his 18th test century with 109 runs .
Dravid added 53 for India , which lost the first test in Melbourne by 337 runs .
Australian Bowlers Mitchell Johnson and Brad Hogg took one wicket each for Australia .
Earlier , Andrew Symonds scored 162 not out for the Aussies and revived the home side 's hopes of winning its 16th test match in a row .
The third test of the four-match series starts in Perth January 16th .
The two sides will also play in a triangular series that features Sri Lanka beginning February third in Brisbane .
Zimbabwe has suspended exports of ostrich and other poultry after discovering a strain of avian flu that can be lethal to birds , but poses little risk to humans .
Thursday , Zimbabwe 's state-run newspaper The Herald reported that the H5N2 strain of avian flu was detected on two farms in Zimbabwe 's Matabeleland province .
It quotes the state veterinary services director , Dr. Stuart Hargreaves , as saying the virus was confirmed with samples sent to South Africa .
The H5N2 strain of avian flu is not known to pass from birds to humans , unlike the H5N1 strain that has killed nearly 70 people in Southeast Asia since 2003 .
Dr. Hargreaves says all of Zimbabwe 's ostrich farms have been placed under quarantine until a national survey can determine the full extent of virus outbreak .
Afghanistan 's economy is recovering from decades of conflict .
The economy has improved significantly since the fall of the Taliban regime in 2001 largely because of the infusion of international assistance , the recovery of the agricultural sector , and service sector growth .
Despite the progress of the past few years , Afghanistan is extremely poor , landlocked , and highly dependent on foreign aid , agriculture , and trade with neighboring countries .
Much of the population continues to suffer from shortages of housing , clean water , electricity , medical care , and jobs .
Criminality , insecurity , weak governance , and the Afghan Government 's inability to extend rule of law to all parts of the country pose challenges to future economic growth .
Afghanistan 's living standards are among the lowest in the world .
While the international community remains committed to Afghanistan 's development , pledging over $ 67 billion at four donors ' conferences since 2002 , the Government of Afghanistan will need to overcome a number of challenges , including low revenue collection , anemic job creation , high levels of corruption , weak government capacity , and poor public infrastructure .
Voters in Burundi are casting ballots in a parliamentary election the ruling party is almost certain to win , amid a boycott by an opposition coalition .
The opposition also boycotted last month 's presidential election .
Unopposed , President Pierre Nkurunziza was re-elected .
The opposition decided to boycott both votes after accusing the president of using fraud to win local elections in May .
International observers said there was no evidence of tampering .
Security has also been a concern during this election season .
Burundi has been on alert since Somali insurgents threatened to attack the country for its role in the peacekeeping mission in Somalia .
Somali Islamist rebel group al-Shabab claimed responsibility for bombings in Uganda earlier this month that killed 76 people .
It said the attacks were revenge for Ugandan participation in the peacekeeping force .
The United Nations has called a special meeting to address the effect of AIDS in southern Africa .
U.N. officials say Wednesday 's meeting in Johannesburg , South Africa will focus on relief efforts and how to get badly-needed resources to the region to battle the growing epidemic .
U.N. special envoy and World Food Program Executive Director James Morris will attend the meeting .
Mr. Morris is currently on an 11-day , four-nation tour of southern Africa to call attention to the region 's problems with drought and AIDS .
U.N. Children 's Fund chair Ann Veneman and U.N. AIDS chief Peter Piot are also expected to attend the meeting .
U.N. figures show southern Africa is one of the world 's hardest-hit regions , with infection rates at nearly 40 percent in Botswana and Swaziland .
South Africa 's infection rate is over 20 percent .
Almost 3,000 workers at an electronics plant in northern China were off the job for a third day Thursday because of a strike demanding better pay and working conditions .
The stoppage at the Japanese-owned Tianjin Mitsumi Electric Company is the latest in a growing number of strikes by Chinese workers demanding salaries in line with those paid in other countries .
Most have been aimed at foreign-owned companies .
The Associated Press reports security forces were posted around the factory , but have not taken action against about 100 workers gathered outside the factory .
However foreign reporters were detained and removed from the area .
A worker at the plant told China 's state-run Xinhua news agency he works six days a week with two hours of overtime every day to earn $ 220 a month .
Afghan authorities say suspected Taleban insurgents have attacked a police post in southern part of the country , killing three policemen , while a rocket landed near a top hotel in the capital , Kabul .
The authorities say an unknown number of militants were involved in the assault late Saturday in southern Helmand province that sparked an hour-long exchange of fire .
Security forces launched a manhunt for the attackers .
The Taleban has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Also late Saturday , a rocket was fired at a Kabul hotel where foreigners often stay , but no one was hurt .
Helmand province has seen some of the fiercest fighting in recent months .
Last week , 150 British troops arrived in the province to form part of a NATO peacekeeping mission .
Venezuela 's oil minister says his country will end talks with foreign oil companies concerning the country 's takeover of oil projects financed by the private companies .
Rafael Ramirez said Monday that the negotiations have become impossible .
Venezuela has said it would take majority control of oil projects along the Orinoco River , where the private companies have invested billions of dollars .
Ramirez also says a plan by President Hugo Chavez to nationalize Venezuela 's electricity sector would mean the complete takeover of the country 's largest power company , Electricidad de Caracas .
EDC is owned by a U.S. company , AES .
Neither AES nor the foreign oil companies have responded to Ramirez 's statements .
U.S. officials have said nationalizations have a long history of failure and seldom benefit the people they are meant to serve .
A moderate earthquake struck central Mexico Friday , forcing residents and office workers to evacuate buildings in Mexico City .
Officials say no major injuries or damages were immediately reported .
The U.S. Geological Survey estimates the earthquake 's magnitude at 6.0 .
An aftershock that measured 5.5 hit a few hours later .
The center says the earthquake , which hit Friday morning local time , was centered in the southwestern state of Michoacan , about 200 kilometers southwest of Mexico City .
In 1985 , a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Mexico City killed more than 10,000 people .
Iraqi medical officials say seven people have been killed in fresh clashes between Shi'ite fighters and U.S. forces in Baghdad 's Shi'ite stronghold of Sadr City .
At least 20 other people were wounded in Thursday 's fighting .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have fought fierce battles in Sadr City against Shi'ite militiamen loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr for the past month .
The U.S. state of Connecticut began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples Wednesday , making it the second state in the nation to permit gay marriage .
Superior Court judge Jonathan Silbert cleared the way for same-sex unions earlier today , just over a week after Californian voters banned gay marriage in their state .
Justices of the peace in Connecticut began issuing marriage licenses to gay couples immediately following today 's ruling .
The Connecticut Supreme Court ruled last month that same-sex marriage is legal .
Voters last week rejected a ballot initiative to ban same-sex marriages in the state .
Same-sex marriages are also legal in Massachusetts .
Gay marriage was legal in California until last week , when voters approved a measure to ban it .
Similar bans passed last week in Arizona and Florida .
The social-conservative group Family Institute of Connecticut says it will continue to work to ban gay marriage in the state .
Yukos , the huge Russian oil company , says Russian authorities have again raided its Moscow offices .
A company spokeswoman tells VOA , officials Thursday searched an area where financial documents are stored .
The action comes as lawyers for Yukos are asking a U.S. court in Houston , Texas for an order blocking the planned auction of a major part of the company on Sunday .
The company says it would be seriously hurt by the forced sale of its main oil-producing subsidiary , Yuganskeneftegaz .
Russian officials ordered the auction to raise money to pay billions of dollars in back taxes .
Critics of Russia 's government say the tax dispute is retaliation for financial support the company 's chairman Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave to political opponents of Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Kenyan authorities report that more than 1,000 teachers have been fired during the past two years for sexually abusing girls .
Education officials said the teachers have been dismissed for impregnating students and committing other sexual offenses .
More of the cases have occurred in public schools .
In addition to being fired from their jobs , some of the teachers have faced criminal proceedings in courts .
Officials said more than 500 teachers have been fired so far this year for committing sexual abuses , and that 600 were dismissed last year .
Afghans continued protests Saturday against a U.S. pastor 's threat to burn copies of the Quran .
The Associated Press reports protesters have set shops and police checkpoints on fire in eastern Logar province 's capital , Puli Alam .
And Reuters news agency says several thousand people gathered in three district in northeastern Badakhshan province .
On Friday , thousands of Afghans across the country demonstrated their outrage at the preacher 's insistence on burning Islam 's holy book .
At least eight people were wounded in the protests .
The preacher has since called off Saturday 's planned burning .
The obscure Florida pastor , Reverend Terry Jones , arrived in New York late Friday .
His plans have created an international firestorm and prompted leading political and religious figures to issue statements condemning the plans .
Top U.S. officials had warned the pastor that the Quran burning could provoke Islamist violence and put U.S. soldiers ' lives in danger .
The Iranian government says it has the right to decide which international inspectors will be allowed to monitor its nuclear facilities .
A spokesman for Iran 's Foreign Ministry said Tehran could reject the inspectors on the basis of their previous activities .
The official , Ramin Mahmanparast , was echoing comments by the nation 's nuclear chief Ali Akbar Salehi , who noted Iran had accepted alternate inspectors provided by the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Salehi was quoted as saying that two inspectors rejected by Iran had filed false reports on Iran 's nuclear program .
A report released Monday by the IAEA said Iran 's objections to certain inspectors are complicating efforts to investigate its nuclear program .
The program is at the core of an international dispute over whether the activities have a military component .
As the tsunami disaster in South Asia continues to unfold , millions of people are turning to the Internet for news updates - or to search for missing relatives .
Several weblogs , or " blogs " have been created in the days since the tragedy dedicated to providing first-hand accounts of the disaster .
Many websites have set up message boards for families who are searching for loved ones who either live or were vacationing in those countries .
The Internet has also been used to raise money for organizations involved in the relief efforts .
Internet retailer Amazon.com raised more than $ 4.5 million from its customers for the Red Cross .
Iran 's newly elected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Aides to Iranian President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have again rejected accusations that he was involved in the 1979 seizure of the American embassy in Tehran .
One senior campaign advisor said Saturday that photographs of a hostage-taker purported to be a young Mr. Ahmadinejad actually show someone else .
Some of the hostage-takers also have denied that he played any role in the siege .
And other aides to the president-elect have added to the denials .
The White House says it is looking into allegations linking the Iranian president-elect to the crisis that lasted 444 days .
Another accusation against Mr. Ahmadinejad has surfaced in Europe .
An Austrian political figure contends that the Iranian president-elect was involved in the 1989 slaying in Vienna of a Kurdish opposition leader .
Aides to Mr. Ahmadinejad said the latest accusation is not worth comment .
Among the 25 poorest countries in the world , Mali is a landlocked country highly dependent on gold mining and agricultural exports for revenue .
The country 's fiscal status fluctuates with gold and agricultural commodity prices and the harvest .
Mali remains dependent on foreign aid .
Economic activity is largely confined to the riverine area irrigated by the Niger River and about 65 % of its land area is desert or semidesert .
About 10 % of the population is nomadic and some 80 % of the labor force is engaged in farming and fishing .
Industrial activity is concentrated on processing farm commodities .
The government has continued an IMF-recommended structural adjustment program that has helped the economy grow , diversify , and attract foreign investment .
Mali is developing its cotton and iron ore extraction industries to diversify its revenue sources because gold production has started to fall .
Mali has invested in tourism but security issues are hurting the industry .
Mali 's adherence to economic reform and the 50 % devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 have pushed up economic growth to a 5 % average in 1996 - 2010 .
Worker remittances and external trade routes for the landlocked country have been jeopardized by continued unrest in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire .
However , Mali is building a road network that will connect it to all adjacent countries and it has a railway line to Senegal .
In 2010 , Mali experienced a regional drought that hurt livestock and livelihoods .
Japan 's Prince Tomohito of Mikasa says there is no need for the government to make an immediate decision on allowing women to succeed to the throne .
He told Kyodo news agency that a government panel should reconsider its proposal to allow the first-born child of either sex to ascend to the Chrysanthemum throne .
Tomohito is a cousin of Emperor Akihito and fifth in the line of succession .
He has been an outspoken critic against changing Japan 's laws for gaining the throne .
Only males who have emperors on their father 's side can succeed to the throne .
However , Japan is facing a succession crisis due to a lack of a male heirs since the 1960s .
Late last year , Tomohito suggested bringing back concubines to produce male heir before allowing a woman to head the ancient monarchy .
Montenegro severed its economy from federal control and from Serbia during the MILOSEVIC era and maintained its own central bank , adopted the Deutchmark , then the euro - rather than the Yugoslav dinar - as official currency , collected customs tariffs , and managed its own budget .
The dissolution of the loose political union between Serbia and Montenegro in 2006 led to separate membership in several international financial institutions , such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development .
In January 2007 , Montenegro joined the World Bank and IMF .
Montenegro is pursuing its own membership in the World Trade Organization and signed a Stabilization and Association agreement with the European Union in October 2007 .
The European Council granted candidate country status to Montenegro at the December 2010 session .
Unemployment and regional disparities in development are key political and economic problems .
Montenegro has privatized its large aluminum complex - the dominant industry - as well as most of its financial sector , and has begun to attract foreign direct investment in the tourism sector .
The global financial crisis has had a significant negative impact on the economy , due to the ongoing credit crunch , a decline in the real estate sector , and a fall in aluminum exports .
Rwandan President Paul Kagame says he disagrees with a U.N. plan for voluntary disarmament of Rwandan rebels based in the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo .
Mr. Kagame says asking the ethnic Hutu rebels to voluntarily disarm is not an attainable goal .
He spoke Sunday in Kigali , after conferring with a delegation of U.N. Security Council members who are touring African nations affected by a decade of ethnic strife in the continent 's Great Lakes region .
President Kagame also criticized a recent U.N. decision to bolster its peacekeeping force in Congo by some 6,000 troops .
He said the issue is not increasing the numbers of U.N. troops , but having a clear definition of what the troops will do once they are in place .
The United Nations says it will stop distributing food to Palestinian refugees in the Gaza Strip on Monday , because its vehicles have run out of fuel .
Gaza has been suffering fuel shortages because of Israeli cutbacks in fuel supplies to the territory and a strike by Palestinian fuel distributors .
Israeli authorities closed a border terminal that supplies fuel to Gaza Sunday after it came under mortar attack from Palestinian militants .
The U.N. Relief and Works Agency suspended food distribution to Gaza refugees for four days last month due to the lack of fuel .
It resumed the aid operation last Tuesday .
Israeli authorities have reduced fuel supplies to Gaza to pressure Palestinian militants to stop rocket attacks on southern Israel .
Gaza fuel distributors went on strike to protest the cutbacks .
Iraqi authorities say gunmen have killed the chief of police in a town northeast of Baghdad .
Police say Colonel Hatem Rashid Mohammad was killed Friday , along with an aide during an ambush in Balad Ruz , 50 kilometers northeast of the capital .
Insurgents have been increasingly attacking Iraqi policemen and soldiers , who have taken a larger role in trying to stabilize the country in recent months .
Thursday , U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Detainee Affairs Matthew Waxman said U.S. forces in Iraq are holding a senior aide to terrorist mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
Mr. Waxman said the man was arrested in Iraq in late 2004 and that he holds joint U.S. and Jordanian citizenship .
He said the suspect acted as an emissary between terror groups in Iraq and al-Zarqawi .
Turkish authorities say a double bomb attack in Istanbul has killed at least 15 people and wounded 150 others .
The bombs went off several minutes apart Sunday evening on a shopping street in a residential district of Gungoren in western Istanbul .
Officials say the first bomb caused a small blast in a telephone booth , drawing a crowd to the site before the second and more powerful device exploded .
Both bombs were placed in trash cans .
Turkish President Abdullah Gul condemned the attack and described its perpetrators as ruthless and savage terrorists .
Authorities are investigating who was behind the bombings .
Several groups have carried out bomb attacks in Istanbul in the past , including Kurdish separatists , far-left activists and Islamists .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says a bomb explosion has killed four American service members .
The troops were on patrol in central Uruzgan province Monday , when their vehicle struck the explosive device .
Meanwhile , in Kunar province bordering Pakistan , an Afghan soldier was killed and five others wounded when their vehicle hit a land mine .
Late Sunday , in southern Helmand province , Taleban insurgents ambushed an Afghan militia unit , killing two men and leaving six missing .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban said the missing militiamen were killed , but Afghan authorities confirm only two deaths .
In another violence late Sunday , on a highway between Kandahar and Herat , suspected Taleban set fire to a tanker supplying fuel to coalition forces .
The Afghan president 's office has responded to criticism by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf , insisting its intelligence on terrorists hiding in Pakistan is correct .
President Hamid Karzai 's office Tuesday defended intelligence it says shows terrorists are free to move in Pakistan .
The statement was a response to Mr. Musharraf 's accusation that Afghanistan is " bad-mouthing " his country and casting doubt on Islamabad 's commitment to fighting terrorism .
Mr. Musharraf said Monday , such criticism of Pakistan is " a deliberate , articulated conspiracy . "
He contends Afghan intelligence is outdated and incorrect .
Afghanistan 's and Pakistan 's comments , coming on the heels of President Bush 's visit to South Asia last week , point to a new low in relations between the neighboring states , at a time when Afghanistan is facing a sharp rise in attacks by insurgents .
A newspaper reports oil company BP was alerted two years ago to problems that caused a major pipeline shut down in Alaska .
Wednesday 's Financial Times reports that a BP workers ' advocate , Chuck Hamel , wrote about employee concerns in a letter to the chairman of BP 's environment committee , Walter Massey .
The newspaper says the letter raised concerns about corrosion inside the oil pipeline .
Members of the U.S. Congress have called for hearings to investigate BP 's operations at Alaska 's Prudhoe Bay oil field .
Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee have said they will examine the shutdown which cut U.S. oil production by about eight percent .
Hearings are set for next month when Congress returns from a recess .
California Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and legislative Democrats have reached what he calls a " historic agreement " that would make the state the first to impose a limit on greenhouse gas emissions .
Governor Schwarzenegger and the lawmakers Wednesday agreed to the deal that would require major energy companies to reduce their carbon emissions within 14 years to 1990 levels .
California is aiming to reduce gas emissions by 25 percent .
The bill still needs the approval of the state 's lawmakers .
It is expected to pass as Democrats currently hold the majority in the state legislature .
Carbon gases trap heat in the atmosphere and scientists believe the gases contribute to global warming .
California is the 12th largest producer of greenhouse gas emissions .
A court hearing began in South Africa Friday , pitting an influential AIDS lobby group against a doctor who claims his vitamin therapies are more effective against AIDS than anti-retroviral drugs .
Treatment Action Campaign , or TAC , is asking the Cape Town court to order Dr. Matthias Rath to stop making defamatory comments about the lobby group .
The German-born doctor calls TAC a front for drug companies .
He also claims AIDS drugs are toxic , saying the deadly disease can be treated successfully with nutrients .
The World Health Organization has condemned Dr. Rath , saying his claims are unhelpful and dangerous .
TAC successfully pressured the South African government to roll out a comprehensive program - including free drugs - to treat AIDS patients .
Ambassadors from Spain , Brazil and Venezuela met with a jailed Colombian rebel leader Friday in hopes of securing a cease-fire between his leftist group and Colombia 's government .
The officials traveled to a high-security prison in northwest Colombia to meet with Francisco Galan , a spokesman for the National Liberation Army , or ELN .
They want the group to halt armed operations and enter peace talks with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe 's government .
The ELN and a larger guerrilla group are fighting in a long-running civil war that also involves right-wing paramilitaries .
A Mexican diplomat met with Mr. Galan last year to push for an ELN cease-fire .
Mexico has offered to monitor negotiations between the group and Colombia 's government .
The economy benefits substantially from financial assistance from the US .
The rate of funding has declined as locally generated government revenues have grown .
The key tourist industry employs about 50 % of the work force and accounts for roughly one-fourth of GDP .
Japanese tourists predominate .
Annual tourist entries have exceeded one-half million in recent years , but financial difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown .
The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms producing coconuts , breadfruit , tomatoes , and melons .
Garment production is by far the most important industry with the employment of 17,500 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US under duty and quota exemptions .
China says it will buy 150 passenger jets from Airbus in a deal worth almost $ 10 billion .
It is the largest single order Airbus has ever gotten from China .
The agreement was signed Monday in Paris as Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and his French counterpart , Dominique de Villepin , looked on .
On Sunday , Mr. Wen toured an Airbus manufacturing plant and signed an agreement that may lead to opening an aircraft assembly plant in China .
The planes in the French deal are part of the A-320 family that can carry between 110 and 185 passengers .
China bought 70 jets from the U.S. manufacturer Boeing during President Bush 's trip to Beijing last month .
U.S. government regulators have approved a new partial artificial heart designed to help some patients as they wait for a heart transplant .
The Food and Drug Administration announced its approval of the new device Monday .
The mechanical device is designed to replace the lower part of a diseased heart , and keep patients alive while they await a donor heart for a transplant .
The device is implanted in the patient and connected to an outside power source .
The company that manufactures the new device - Syncardia Systems of Tucson , Arizona , in the southwestern U.S. - says it tested it on 81 patients .
It says it kept 79 of them alive more than two months until donor hearts could be found .
Britney Spears is officially divorced - but at a stiff price .
The Star Magazine reports the singer 's divorce from Kevin Federline will cost her $ 13 million , including $ 25,000 a month in child support for each of the couple 's two sons until they reach 18 .
He also gets custody of the boys four days a week .
Kevin Federline gets to keep all the gifts Britney Spears bought him during their two-year marriage - but is forbidden from writing a tell-all book about their union .
He reportedly encouraged Britney to remain in a treatment center by telling her they would reconcile after she got out .
The U.S. monthly trade deficit rose to an all-time high in November as oil imports soared .
The gap between what Americans bought abroad and the goods and services they sold to foreign nations widened to a record $ 68.9 billion .
The surge surprised economists who expected declining oil prices to ease the trade deficit .
Wednesday 's report from the U.S. Commerce Department says trade deficits with OPEC , China , Canada , the European Union , and Mexico were at record levels .
Some analysts say November 's huge trade deficit puts the United States on track to exceed last year 's record annual trade deficit of nearly $ 618 billion .
Bayelsa State government officials in Nigeria say the mother of a state legislator has been kidnapped in the country 's southern Niger Delta .
Jonah Okah , A spokesman for the Bayelsa state parliament says gunmen took the woman from her home Monday night in Brass , a remote part of the oil-producing delta region .
The spokesman also says the 11-year-old son of another local legislator was released by kidnappers Tuesday .
It is not clear whether ransom money was paid for the child 's release .
The mother of the speaker of the Bayelsa state parliament was also abducted and released earlier this month .
Kidnappings for ransom are frequent in Nigeria 's delta region .
Armed gangs have mostly abducted foreign oil industry workers , but recently began including relatives of local officials they think can afford to pay for their release .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber blew up his explosives filled car near the Oil Ministry in Baghdad , killing at least nine people and wounding eight others .
Another suicide car bomb attack occurred in an eastern part of the capital Thursday .
Police said there were casualties , but no confirmed figure was immediately available .
The attacks come a day after 25 people were killed and 90 others wounded in a suicide attack at a Shi'ite mosque in the town of Hilla .
The bomber struck as the faithful gathered at the mosque to pray before breaking fast Wednesday - the first day of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Meanwhile , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair in London Thursday , to discuss preparations for the October 15 national referendum on Iraq 's new constitution .
U.S. stock market indexes posted strong gains in Tuesday 's afternoon trading .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose three percent , the S & P 500 advanced 3.6 percent , and the NASDAQ moved up 3.3 percent .
European stock markets were higher at the close of trading .
London 's Financial Times 100 index gained 1.4 percent to finish at 4,123 .
The CAC-40 in Paris rose 2.4 percent to close at 3,153 , and the DAX in Frankfurt moved up 3.1 percent to hit 4,532 .
In Asia , Tokyo 's Nikkei index plunged 6.4 percent to finish the day at 7,864 .
In Hong Kong , the Hang Seng dropped five percent to end at 13,406 .
The price of gold rose more than $ 11 to trade at $ 780.47 an ounce .
The dollar was higher against the yen but lost value compared to the euro .
Afghan authorities have discovered the bodies of two intelligence agents kidnapped by suspected Taleban militants earlier this week .
Officials said Wednesday the men were abducted while on a mission in western Farah province , and their bodies were dumped in the desert .
They said members of the ousted Taleban were likely behind the killings .
Meanwhile , police in central Ghazni province arrested a Taleban commander , Mullah Nazer Shah , after his men set fire to a school .
Officials have blamed Taleban rebels for a series of attacks on educational facilities , including fires at a dozen schools and the killing of several teachers .
In other developments , 150 British troops have arrived in southern Helmand province to form part of a NATO peacekeeping mission .
Britain has pledged 3,300 soldiers to the expanded NATO mission planned for Helmand .
Ukraine 's parliament has overwhelmingly confirmed Yulia Tymoshenko as the country 's prime minister .
The vote was 373 in favor out of the 450-member chamber .
Earlier , President Viktor Yushchenko told lawmakers in Kiev Ms. Tymoshenko had earned his and the nation 's trust .
Calling her his political partner , Mr. Yushchenko said she can be trusted to organize a new government .
Ukraine 's parliament Tuesday postponed a hearing on Ms. Tymoshenko 's confirmation as her broad coalition was reported to be finalizing the makeup of a new cabinet .
Meanwhile , President Yushchenko is reported Friday to have dismissed three deputy prime ministers , 15 cabinet ministers and several other officials in a move political observers say was expected as the new government is being formed .
Gunmen in Iraq have attacked a bus carrying Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims to shrines south of Baghdad , killing three and wounding several others .
Britain 's Foreign Office says it is investigating reports that at least two British citizens are among the dead from Monday 's shooting .
Meanwhile , there is no word on the fate of four Western humanitarian workers who disappeared in Iraq on Saturday .
A Canadian official disclosed the kidnappings of a Briton , two Canadians and an American on Sunday , but did not reveal details .
Since then , U.S. and British officials have confirmed the abductions .
There has been no public claim of responsibility .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says 20 suspected insurgents have been captured south of Baghdad in Babil province .
Separately , authorities say U.S. troops have unearthed more than 2,700 mortar rounds at an abandoned Iraqi army base near Kirkuk .
The United States has reopened its embassy in the Saudi capital , Riyadh , but its consulate in Jeddah remains closed , two days after it was stormed by militants linked to al-Qaida .
An embassy spokeswoman says U.S. officials Wednesday ended the emergency closure of the embassy as well as a consular office in the eastern port of Dhahran .
The missions were closed after Monday 's attack that killed five non-American staff and four of the five gunmen .
U.S. officials say they are bolstering security at all U.S. missions in Saudi Arabia in the wake of the attack .
Tuesday , the U.S. State Department re-issued a travel warning for Saudi Arabia , saying private American citizens should leave the country or cancel plans to travel there .
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says the United States has weathered two years of sharp rises in fuel and natural gas prices reasonably well , thanks to what he calls " market flexibility . "
In a speech Wednesday in Washington , Mr. Greenspan also praised market flexibility for what he termed " the impressive performance " of the U.S. economy over the past 20 years .
Analysts have often praised Mr. Greenspan , who has been in office since 1987 , for fostering economic stability with his interest rate and monetary policy .
On Wednesday , he made no mention of interest rates , which the Federal Reserve has raised several times in recent months .
Mr. Greenspan 's term on the Federal Reserve 's Board of Governors is scheduled to end on January 31 .
Colombia has signed a free trade agreement with the four countries that make up the European Free Trade Association , EFTA .
A statement from the association says the Colombian trade minister , Luis Guillermo Plata , and his partners from Switzerland , Liechtenstein , Iceland and Norway signed the agreement Tuesday in Geneva .
Officials say the agreement covers Colombia 's industrial and agricultural exports .
EFTA ministers said they are confident the new trade opportunities with Colombia will contribute to economic growth and development among the participating countries .
EFTA was founded in 1960 and has 17 ongoing free trade treaties with countries ranging from Canada to Egypt .
A LION roaming through the forest , got a thorn in his foot , and , meeting a Shepherd , asked him to remove it .
The Shepherd did so , and the Lion , having just surfeited himself on another shepherd , went away without harming him .
Some time afterward the Shepherd was condemned on a false accusation to be cast to the lions in the amphitheatre .
When they were about to devour him , one of them said :
" This is the man who removed the thorn from my foot . "
Hearing this , the others honourably abstained , and the claimant ate the Shepherd all himself .
Pakistan has again expressed support for the European Union 's efforts for a negotiated settlement to Tehran 's dispute with Washington over Iran 's nuclear program .
Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri told a news conference Pakistan would like to support the European approach because the Islamic world can not afford another conflict after U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq .
He says Pakistan has been talking to the United States , the European Union and Iran to defuse tensions .
Last month , President Bush said the United States could not rule out using force if Iran fails to rein in its nuclear plans .
Iran denies U.S charges that it is seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
Last year , the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb , Abdul Qadeer Khan , admitted selling nuclear secrets to Iran .
More bleak news for the U.S. economy Friday : the Labor Department reported the nation lost more than a half million jobs in November , the most in about three decades .
And the number of homeowners struggling to make their mortgage payments is rising .
President Bush expressed concern about the deteriorating U.S. economy and used the word " recession " for the first time .
China says its exports rose 21 percent in January from the same period a year ago , a further sign that its economy has withstood the global recession .
The figures released by the General Administration of Customs Wednesday show exports totaled over $ 109 billion .
January 's increase follows on the heels of a 17.7 percent increase in December .
Officials says last month 's export increase was partly due to the comparison with a period of low activity last year , when companies were idled for the Lunar New Year .
The customs office also says imports soared 85.5 percent in January .
The import and export figures taken together made a $ 14.2 billion trade surplus for the month .
But in a month-on-month basis , exports dropped 16.3 percent in January from December , and imports fell 15.1 percent .
A spokesman for U.S. President Barack Obama says a decision on how many additional troops will be sent to Afghanistan will be made shortly .
White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters Monday aboard Air Force One that the decision will be made within days and not weeks .
Defense Secretary Robert Gates told reporters last week that the president will have several options before him .
The U.S. commander in Afghanistan , General David McKiernan , has requested up to 30,000 additional troops , including combat and aviation brigades , to join U.S. military units already in the country .
There are currently about 60,000 foreign soldiers in Afghanistan , most of them part of the International Security Assistance Force .
The Obama administration has ordered a review of U.S. policy in Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan , to consider new ways to root out terrorist havens and how to battle insurgents more effectively .
British Foreign Secretary David Miliband is in Pakistan for talks with government leaders .
Officials say Miliband traveled Sunday to the northwestern city of Peshawar , capital of the volatile North West Frontier Province .
The British official is expected to meet with the provincial governor and other local officials to discuss security issues and ongoing cooperation .
Earlier this month , British Interior Minister Jacqui Smith said Britain is ready to increase its assistance to Pakistan to combat militancy .
Pakistan is a key Western ally and has helped the United States and Britain thwart terrorist attacks .
The New York Times says the CIA has sent more than 100 suspected terrorists to other countries for interrogation under a secret program authorized by the Bush administration .
Sunday 's edition of the newspaper quotes former and current government officials as saying the CIA has acted under a still-classified directive that President Bush signed within days of the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks .
The officials said the process , known as rendition , has been central in U.S. efforts to disrupt terrorism .
Suspects have been sent to countries including Egypt , Syria , Jordan , Saudi Arabia and Pakistan .
The transfers have been criticized because some former prisoners alleged they were mistreated .
An administration official told the paper the CIA takes care to ensure the prisoners are detained under humane conditions and not tortured .
Thailand 's military has named a committee to begin the process of writing a new constitution , following a military coup last month .
Officials said Thursday the 17-member panel will be led by Air Force Chief Chalit Phukphasuk .
The committee is to select 2,000 people for a National Assembly , from which 100 people will be selected to draft the new charter .
Leaders of the military coup have pledged to return the country to civilian rule in one year and hold new elections in October of next year .
Interim Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont Thursday reaffirmed plans for the army-led government to finish its work in one year .
He said he does not want to " bear the burden " assigned by military leaders longer than necessary .
Earlier , a member of the interim cabinet , Thirapat Serirangsan , said the transition process may take as many as 17 months .
Osama bin Laden 's deputy has appeared in a new videotape threatening Britain with more terror attacks and warning the United States it could face thousands of military casualties in Iraq if it does not withdraw its troops .
Al-Qaida deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri did not directly claim al-Qaida carried out the July 7 London attacks in the video aired Thursday on the Arab satellite channel al-Jazeera .
But he said further attacks would be the fault of British Prime Minister Tony Blair 's policies .
Of the United States , he said losses in the September 11 , 2001 attacks , and in Iraq and Afghanistan , would only be the beginning until " you withdraw from our land , stop stealing our oil and resources , and end support for corrupt rulers . "
Ayman al-Zawahiri last appeared in a videotape on June 17 , in which he said peaceful change was not possible .
Iraqi officials say President Jalal Talabani is to travel to Tehran Monday to meet with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The talks are expected to focus on the deteriorating security situation in Iraq and how Iran can help stem sectarian violence .
Iran is said to have influence with Shi'ite factions and militias in Iraq .
The New York Times newspaper says a bi-partisan panel studying U.S. strategic options in Iraq is expected to urge the Bush administration to undertake aggressive regional diplomacy , including direct talks with Iran and Syria .
The Times quoted officials familiar with the plan as saying the panel will not recommend a specific timetable for a military withdrawal .
Iraq 's Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki urged rival factions of his government to unite to prevent more sectarian violence , which killed a number of Iraqi across the country Sunday .
Mr. Maliki said public disputes among Iraq 's politicians are fueling the bloodshed .
A flurry of new reports give a mixed assessment of the US economy Thursday .
The job market looks better , with the Labor Department reporting the biggest drop since 2001 in requests for first-time unemployment compensation .
Its report shows the number of such initial claims falling 43,000 to 317,000 last week .
But that news was tempered by other reports .
The Commerce Department says the deficit in U.S. foreign trade and investment , called the current account , hit a record $ 165 billion between July and September .
Many economists had predicted the gap between what Americans buy abroad and what they sell would be even worse .
Commerce also reported the number of new houses started in November dropped 13 percent , the sharpest decline in almost 11 years .
Iran 's influential former president , Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , has praised the late Pope John Paul II as a man of peace and offered his condolences to the world 's Christians on the loss of the Roman Catholic leader .
Speaking to Muslims at Friday prayers in Tehran , Mr. Rafsanjani praised the pope for opposing the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq and his condemnation of the abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib jail by some U.S. soldiers .
Mr. Rafsanjani , who has hinted at a comeback in June 's presidential election , asked how the Vatican could be indifferent to U.S. policies , which he said dishonor Jesus Christ .
Iran 's president , Mohammad Khatami , represented the Islamic Republic at the pontiff 's funeral Friday in Rome .
The European Union 's top official for Bulgaria says reopening two shuttered Bulgarian nuclear reactors is " out of the question . "
Michael Humphreys said at a Balkans energy conference in Sofia Monday that closing the reactors is part of Bulgaria 's membership agreement with the EU .
He said all 26 other EU members would have to agree to change Bulgaria 's membership deal .
He calls that impossible .
Bulgaria was forced to close reactors three and four of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant because of safety concerns .
Energy ministers and other top officials from five Balkan nations - Albania , Bulgaria , Croatia , Macedonia , and Serbia - urged the EU in a statement to allow the reactors to temporarily reopen until other electricity sources can be found .
The officials say they fear closing the reactors will create a regional energy shortage .
President Bush is urging senior citizens to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug plan by its May 15 deadline .
Mr. Bush issued the call Tuesday as he visited seniors in the Midwestern U.S. states of Missouri and Iowa to discuss the program .
The president told his audiences that 29 million Americans are already participating in the program intended to give them choices and save them money .
The president 's chief Medicare official , Mark McClellan , said more than 1,000 enrollment seminars are planned around the country this week to raise awareness about the program .
Democrats have said the numerous options in the plan confuse senior citizens and will cost them more money .
Mr. Bush has acknowledged problems with the plan since its January debut , but says his administration has straightened them out .
The United States is the only wealthy , industrialized nation that does not provide universal health care for its citizens .
And now , rising costs for both health care and for insurance premiums put health care out of reach for many Americans .
Forty-seven million do not have health insurance .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
Egypt 's top prosecutor has charged opposition leader Ayman Nour with forgery , in a case that has sparked high-level criticism in the United States and Europe .
The indictments were announced Tuesday in Cairo .
No trial date has been set .
Mr. Nour , who says he will seek the Egyptian presidency in upcoming elections , is set to stand trial along with six defendants from his al-Ghad party .
Prosecutors allege Mr. Nour used documents with forged signatures last year when registering the party with the Cairo government .
Mr. Nour was arrested in January and spent six weeks in a Cairo jail , before his release on bond last week .
In a letter to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak , the New York-based Human Rights Watch said it was dismayed by what it called Cairo 's " radical intolerance " toward political dissent .
The U.S. State Department and the European parliament also voiced concern .
Venezuela 's president says his government may give its U.S.-made fighter jets to Cuba and China , after accusing the United States of breaking an agreement to provide jet parts .
President Hugo Chavez Tuesday said the United States is refusing to sell parts to Caracas to maintain its fleet of U.S.-made F-16 fighters .
Mr. Chavez said his nation can do whatever it wants with the jets - even give them to Cuba and China .
The comments were made at a ceremony announcing Venezuela 's plans to launch a telecommunications satellite with China 's help .
A Defense Department official speaking on condition of anonymity says there has been no communication with Caracas about giving away the jets .
The official also said U.S. laws strictly govern third party transfers .
Venezuela bought two-dozen F-16 jets from the United States in the 1980s .
Government officials in Sudan 's semi-autonomous south say Saturday fighting within the army has killed at least 13 people , including civilians and soldiers .
Authorities say the violence erupted in the oil-rich Unity State Friday between bodyguards of the state 's governor and troops loyal to army General Paulino Matip .
Government officials say the clashes stem from an argument that escalated into violence .
The infighting comes as southern Sudan 's ruling party ( Sudan Peoples ' Liberation Movement , SPLM ) seeks to reclaim a major oil field in Unity State .
An arbitration court granted the land where the oil field is located to the northern-based national government in a July ruling .
Southern Sudan is also scheduled to vote on independence from the North in a 2011 referendum .
The independence vote is part of a 2005 peace deal between the north and the south that ended 21 years of civil war .
A Vatican spokesman says Pope John Paul II tried to express his thanks when he was told about the crowd of thousands of young people gathered in St. Peter 's Square offering their prayers and support for him .
The spokesman says the pope apparently was thinking of the countless young Catholics he met during his many trips abroad - to 129 countries and foreign territories - when he tried to speak to the priests attending him late Friday .
The pope 's spokesman , Joaquin Navarro-Valls , told reporters that John Paul II " seemed to have said the following sentence : " I have looked for you .
Now you have come to me .
And I thank you . "
Asked for further details , Mr. Navarro-Valls said those words were " reconstructed " or pieced together from several attempts the pope made to speak late Friday .
A funny old lion , who had the misfortune to lose his mane , was wearing a wig as he was taking a stroll on a very windy day .
Looking up , he spied one of the charming Tiger sisters across the street , and , wishing to make an impression , smiled blandly and made a beautiful low bow .
At that moment a very smart gust of wind came up , and the consequence was that his wig flew off and left him there , feeling foolish and looking worse , with his bald head glistening like a billiard ball .
Though somewhat embarrassed at first , he smiled at the Lady and said : " Is it a wonder that another fellow 's hair should n't keep on my head , when my own would n't stay there ? "
" Wit always has an answer ready . "
President Bush says the United States needs to increase its oil refining capacity after two Gulf of Mexico hurricanes tightened gasoline supplies .
Following a briefing by the Energy Department , the president said Hurricanes Rita and Katrina exposed the fragility of the balance between oil supply and demand in the nation .
The president said he was willing to use the national Strategic Petroleum Reserve to meet immediate fuel needs and he urged citizens to conserve fuel by curtailing nonessential trips and conserving electricity during peak hours .
The president said many pipelines and refineries should be back to full capacity by next week , but officials are still assessing the damage at several key sites .
Oil prices fell today to about $ 64 a barrel on reports of limited hurricane damage to industry facilities .
Bombs targeting Iraqi troops in Baghdad and police in the north of the country have killed at least 10 people .
Police say a truck bomb attack on a police station in the northern city of Mosul killed four people and wounded more than 30 others Tuesday .
In Baghdad , a car bomb blast near an Iraqi army checkpoint killed three soldiers and three civilians , and wounded 25 other people .
In other violence , three Iraqi policemen were shot to death by gunmen at a checkpoint in eastern Baghdad .
Separately , the U.S military in Iraq says it captured four wanted men and detained six suspected terrorists during operations to disrupt al-Qaida networks in central Iraq .
Iranian opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi has accused Iran 's government of persecuting opponents in the name of Islam .
In comments published on his website late Sunday , Mousavi said Islam does not beat anyone , arrest people or keep them in prison .
He also rejected accusations by Iranian conservatives that the opposition is linked to external forces , saying such allegations do not benefit the country .
Iran 's opposition accuses conservative President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of rigging a presidential election last June to give himself a second term .
The opposition claims Mousavi was the rightful winner .
Mousavi 's website also quotes him as criticizing the government 's post-election crackdown on independent media .
He urged supporters of his Green Movement to keep raising awareness about their campaign for basic rights through social networking tools on the Internet .
Israel has stepped up security around Jerusalem 's holiest site to prevent clashes between Muslim worshippers and Jewish extremists opposed to Israel 's impending withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Hundreds of police have been mobilized around what Jews call the Temple Mount , and Muslims know as the Noble Sanctuary .
Thousands of Jews are expected to attend prayer services at the compound through Sunday to commemorate the destruction of the biblical Jewish temples 2000 years ago .
Muslim clerics have urged their followers to protect mosques on the holy site .
Meanwhile , Hamas leaders in Gaza held a rare news conference Saturday , vowing to continue their struggle against Israel .
The Palestinian Authority says security forces are fully prepared ahead of their deployment today to prevent any attempts by militants to disrupt Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza beginning this week .
The Swedish government continues to face criticism for a slow response to Asia 's tsunami disaster .
Local media have been very critical of the government of Prime Minister Goran Persson , noting that his Foreign Minister Laila Freivalds did not go to her office for more than a day after the tsunami was first reported .
Newspapers say hundreds of angry citizens have written letters and e-mails condemning the government 's response to the tragedy .
Sweden has been the hardest-hit Western nation , with more than 3,500 of its citizens unaccounted for and at least 59 known dead .
The prime minister has ordered an investigation , but has said that Ms. Freivalds is safe in her job .
Mr. Persson does not face re-election until September 2006 .
Meanwhile , flags flew at half-staff Sunday as Sweden , Finland and Norway marked an official day of mourning .
French singer Henri Salvador , who performed with Django Reinhardt and is credited with inspiring the bossa nova , died in Paris Wednesday , at the age of 90 .
Officials of his recording company say Salvador died in his home of an aneurysm .
Salvador was born in French Guiana and moved to Paris , where he began playing the guitar .
Renowned guitarist Django Reinhardt discovered him in the 1930s .
He later played with band leader Ray Ventura before going on to a solo career .
Salvador 's song " Dans mon Isle " inspired the Brazilian musician Antonio Carlos Jobim , who borrowed the song 's innovative sense of timing and used it to create the bossa nova style .
This particular Wizard worked in a modern factory .
Everything was satisfactory except that certain miscreants took advantage of his good nature , and would steal his parking spot .
This continued until he put up the following effective sign :
This parking space belongs to the Wizard .
...
Violators will be toad .
President Bush was in the middle of a minor confrontation involving his Secret Service agents and Chilean security forces at the APEC summit in Santiago , Chile Saturday night .
A shoving match between the Chilean and U.S. agents occurred Saturday when the Chileans tried to stop the Secret Service bodyguards from accompanying the president to a dinner with world leaders .
When the president noticed the confrontation , he stepped away from First Lady Laura Bush , Chilean President Ricardo Lagos and his wife , and pulled the U.S. agent from Chilean security .
The incident was shown on APEC 's summit television .
White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan said Chilean security tried to stop the president 's Secret Service from accompanying him .
She also said the issue was resolved when the president told the Chileans the Secret Service agents were with him .
Iran 's foreign minister says Tehran will restart its uranium enrichment program if Friday 's talks with European nations fail .
Kamal Kharrazi spoke to reporters at The Hague , saying if the two sides fail to resolve the impasse Friday , then Tehran " will have no choice " but to restart its enrichment program .
Britain , France and Germany , backed by the United States , want Iran to permanently give up uranium enrichment , which can be used to fuel nuclear weapons .
European officials have offered economic incentives in exchange for abandoning enrichment , but Tehran has resisted , saying its enrichment activities are for peaceful purposes .
Iran agreed in November to stop enriching uranium , but has insisted the move is temporary .
A couple of Yogi Berra 's teammates on the Yankees ball club swear that one night the stocky catcher was horrified to see a baby toppling off the roof of a cottage across the way from him .
Yogi dashed over and made a miraculous catch - but then force of habit proved too much for him .
He straightened up and threw the baby to second base .
Iraqi authorities say a female suicide bomber has blown herself up near a government compound north of Baghdad , killing at least 15 people and wounding 40 others .
The woman detonated her explosives vest in the Diyala province capital of Baquba Sunday , near a heavily guarded area that includes government offices and a courthouse .
Authorities say at least seven policemen were killed in the attack .
An increasing number of women have been carrying out suicide attacks in Iraq in recent months .
The U.S. military says al-Qaida in Iraq has been recruiting women because it is easier for them to avoid security searches .
Venezuela 's president has called on the international community to do everything possible to avoid a military conflict with Iran because of its nuclear program .
Speaking on a trip to London Monday , Hugo Chavez said that Europe has a very important role to play in the dispute with Iran , which is accused of seeking atomic weapons .
Earlier , Mr. Chavez warned that the price of oil would soar if the United States took military action against Iran .
The Venezuelan leader was set to conclude a two-day trip to London , which did not include a meeting with British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Later Monday , Mr. Chavez was to travel to Algeria for talks with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika .
Tuesday , he is to meet Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in Tripoli .
Red Cross officials in Pakistan say a helicopter with a crew of seven returning home to Turkmenistan after assisting with earthquake relief is missing .
A relief agency official said Sunday the air control tower lost contact with the aircraft Friday as it crossed into Afghan airspace not long after taking off from Peshawar , Pakistan .
The Soviet-era Mi-8 helicopter from Turkmenistan had been chartered by the Red Cross for the earthquake relief effort in Pakistan for the past three months and was returning home after completing its mission .
The official says a search operation is under way to locate the helicopter and crew .
The European Union has welcomed Sunday 's publication of Iraq 's draft constitution .
The EU presidency , held currently by British Prime Minister Tony Blair , issued a statement calling the document an " important milestone " in Iraq 's political process .
The EU statement urged all Iraqis to participate in the ratification vote scheduled for October .
It also offered EU help in preparing for that vote and for national elections scheduled for December .
Pyongyang is demanding Seoul pay at least $ 1 billion in compensation for allegedly torturing North Korean spies and prisoners of war formerly held in South Korea .
North Korea 's official KCNA news agency says the government submitted its claim for damages to South Korea 's Human Rights Commission Friday .
Pyongyang 's complaint involves 63 North Koreans freed by South Korea in 2000 , and sent back to the North after decades of detention .
Seoul agreed to release them after a reconciliation summit between the two Koreas .
North Korea says the prisoners were subjected to physical and mental torture , and held in solitary confinement for refusing to renounce their ideology .
Pyongyang has also faced international criticism for allegedly torturing prisoners .
Seoul says hundreds of South Korean prisoners are still being held by the North .
Top Republican lawmakers in the House of Representatives say they are planning legislation that would block a Dubai company from taking over operations of several U.S. ports , setting up a showdown with the White House .
The chairman of a key House committee says he will attach a provision blocking the proposed deal to an emergency spending measure for the war in Iraq and for Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts .
The proposal marks a significant break between the White House and Republican lawmakers who have supported President Bush 's legislative agenda in recent years .
The White House has vowed to veto any legislation overturning the deal with Dubai-owned DP World , and on Tuesday a spokesman said the administration would continue to work with Congress on the matter .
But House members say the issue is a " very big " political problem for lawmakers and they expect to hold talks with the Senate on ways to block the takeover .
The biggest U.S. bank , Citigroup , lost $ 5.1 billion in the first three months of this year after making bad investments in securities backed by home loans .
The losses reported Friday grew as more and more consumers also fell behind on car and credit-card loans .
Citigroup 's managers say they will cut costs sharply , focus on the most fundamental parts of their business , and fire another 9,000 of their 370,000 workers .
It is the second major quarterly loss for Citigroup , and it is the latest in a wave of dismal bank earning reports over the past week .
Merrill Lynch revealed a $ 2 billion loss and 3,000 job cuts on Thursday .
Dozens of angry Muslims in Pakistan 's southern city of Karachi protested Friday against the release of an anti-Islamic film by a Dutch lawmaker .
Members of the hard-line Islamist party Jamaat-i-Islami organized the protest , chanting " Death to the filmmaker " and demanding that Pakistan 's government sever diplomatic ties with The Netherlands .
The film , called Fitna , was made by Dutch lawmaker Geert Wilders and contains images of terrorist attacks and quotations from the Koran .
The Pakistani government Friday lodged a strong protest with the Netherlands , summoning the Dutch ambassador to Pakistan to condemn what it called the " defamatory " film .
Protests have erupted in Pakistan and Afghanistan in recent weeks in anticipation of the film 's release and after the reprinting of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in Danish newspapers .
Authorities in Saudi Arabia have identified three of the militants killed in Monday 's terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Jeddah .
The Saudi Interior Ministry says the three were not on a most wanted list of suspected al-Qaida sympathizers issued by Saudi authorities last year .
Authorities are still trying to identify a fourth dead militant , while the name of a fifth militant taken into custody was not released .
The militants stormed the consulate with grenades , triggering a gunbattle with Saudi security forces .
Five non-American staff members died in the attack .
The United States says it is boosting security at its diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia due to Monday 's attack .
The Jeddah consulate remains closed Tuesday .
A WOODCHOPPER , who had dropped his axe into a deep pool , besought Mercury to recover it for him .
That thoughtless deity immediately plunged into the pool , which became so salivated that the trees about its margin all came loose and dropped out .
Police officials in Spain say Spanish and Moroccan security forces have thwarted another attempt by African migrants to illegally cross over from Morocco to Spain 's North African enclave of Melilla .
Police say at least 1,000 migrants tried to scale razor wire fences early Thursday but failed to get through .
The attempt came just hours after Spain announced measures to deter migrants , mostly from west Africa , from storming Melilla and its sister enclave , Ceuta .
Spain said it would invoke for the first time a 1992 agreement with Morocco allowing it to send back to Morocco any Africans who had succeeded in getting into Ceuta or Melilla .
Earlier Wednesday , about 500 migrants in Morocco tried storming a fence surrounding Melilla .
About 65 people successfully climbed over the fence while dozens of others suffered serious cuts from razor wire .
The bathtub was invented in 1850 .
The telephone was invented in 1875 .
This might not seem like much but , if you had lived back then , you could have sat in the bathtub for 25 years without being bothered by the phone
Israeli Education Minister Yuli Tamir has ordered that new textbooks no longer show the occupied West Bank as part of Israel .
Tamir , a member of the Peace Now group that opposes West Bank settlement , said Tuesday the textbooks must show the Green Line that divides Israel from the West Bank .
Israel seized the territory in the 1967 Six-Day War .
About 200,000 Jews live in West Bank settlements , among more than two million Palestinians .
Israel occupies the area but has not annexed it .
Many settlers want the enclaves to be incorporated into the Jewish state .
The Palestinians hope to establish an independent state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Pro-settlement Jewish activists are criticizing the education minister .
A member of parliament from Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's Kadima party , Ronit Tirosh , said the minister has no right to make the decision .
Two senior officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency have turned in their resignations amid mounting turmoil since the recent appointment of a new director .
Deputy Director John McLaughlin announced his retirement from the spy agency Friday after 32 years of service .
The Washington Post newspaper quotes unidentified officials as saying he resigned after warning recently-appointed director Porter Goss that one of his top aides , chief of staff Patrick Murray , was " treating senior officials disrespectfully and risked widespread resignations . "
Deputy Director of Operations Stephen Kappes also tendered his resignation Friday , reportedly after a confrontation with the same aide .
The article says after offering his resignation , Mr. Kappes agreed to delay his decision until Monday .
It also says several other senior CIA officers have threatened to quit .
The CIA has been sharply criticized for intelligence failures leading up to the 2001 September 11 terrorist attacks and the Iraq war .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has met with Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Busan , South Korea .
Japanese officials say Mr. Toledo told the Japanese leader that former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori 's recent return to South America should not affect the two nations ' relationship .
Mr. Fujimori , a Japanese citizen , fled to Japan five years ago in the midst of a corruption scandal .
He was arrested last week in Chile .
If returned to Peru , he faces charges of corruption and of authorizing death squads .
Last week , Peru recalled its ambassador to Japan after a Japanese consular official visited Mr. Fujimori in jail .
Lima says Tokyo is interfering in his extradition process , but Tokyo insists it is treating him like any other Japanese citizen .
North and South Korean officials have apparently made little progress toward reaching an agreement on the plight of South Korean prisoners of war and missing civilians South Korean officials believe are alive in the north .
Talks hosted by the Red Cross began Tuesday at the Mount Kumgang resort in North Korea .
The Yonhap news agency says that South Korean officials pushed for at least eight annual reunions for family members separated by the Korean War .
The report said North Korea instead suggested holding one reunion each June .
Seoul says more than 500 prisoners and hundreds of kidnapped civilians are still alive in the North .
Pyongyang denies holding any war prisoners and says any South Korean citizens in its country defected voluntarily .
On a separate issue , South Korea agreed to donate 150,000 tons of fertilizer to the impoverished North .
President Bush has vowed to increase the number of needy countries the United States aids through the Millennium Challenge Corporation , which rewards nations making democratic and free-market reforms .
Mr. Bush said Tuesday that nearly two dozen new countries have been selected as eligible for aid .
He spoke during the swearing-in ceremony of John Danilovich , the corporation 's new chief executive officer .
President Bush said he has asked Mr. Danilovich to implement several new agreements with developing countries in upcoming months .
The corporation currently has agreements with Armenia , Benin , Cape Verde , Georgia , Honduras , Madagascar , and Nicaragua .
The corporation gives development aid to needy countries that are judged to govern justly and encourage economic freedom .
The aid goes toward projects in agriculture , education , and private sector development .
Members of the U.N. Security Council have arrived in Rwanda at the start of a tour of nations affected by a decade of ethnic strife in Africa 's Great Lakes region .
Delegates are also scheduled to visit the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi and Uganda to study ways of encouraging rebuilding and an end to violence .
The tour comes one day after a Great Lakes summit in Tanzania , where 15 African leaders signed a pledge to disarm fighters , stop the flow of weapons and improve security .
Speaking at the summit , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan promised to back peacekeeping operations and humanitarian aid in the region .
In 1994 , the genocide in Rwanda sparked a series of ethnic conflicts and cross-border wars , killing and displacing millions of people , mostly civilians .
The British military says one of its soldiers has died fighting insurgents in Afghanistan .
The military says the British Royal Marine was killed Wednesday in the Nad-e-Ali district near Lashkar Gah , the capital of Helmand province .
About 70,000 international forces are in Afghanistan fighting a Taliban insurgency that has raged since the United States pushed the group from power in 2001 .
On Wednesday , Afghan and international troops said they had captured a senior insurgent commander in a raid on a suspected insurgent cell in Baghlan province .
A joint statement from the Afghan and U.S. militaries said insurgent Mullah Dahoud is suspected of involvement in a deadly October attack in Baghlan and the 2007 bombing of a sugar factory , which killed more than 50 people .
A stampede at a religious gathering in southern Pakistan has killed at least 29 women and children .
More than 70 people were injured in the stampede , which occurred Sunday after a Sunni Muslim ceremony in Karachi celebrating the birth of the Prophet Muhammad .
At least 20,000 women and their children attended the ceremony .
Local officials and witnesses said the stampede began after a girl fell down in the middle of a crowd leaving a mosque .
They said a woman bent down to pick up the girl , causing others behind to trip over her .
Dozens of unconscious women and children were sent to nearby hospitals .
The McDonald 's Corporation will have to answer a lawsuit filed by four New York teenagers who allege the company hid the health risks of hamburgers and Chicken McNuggets .
The suit blames McDonald 's for the teenagers ' obesity and health problems , and it asks billions of dollars in damages .
McDonald 's is the world 's largest fast-food chain , and company officials have called the lawsuit " frivolous . "
A district judge originally dismissed the suit , but an appeals court late Tuesday allowed the case to move forward and cleared the way for the teens to demand that McDonald 's turn over documents .
The case was originally filed in 2002 , and is the first obesity-related lawsuit against a food company to reach a judge .
U.S. presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and John McCain have received endorsements by a newspaper in Iowa , where the first step in the election process takes place next month .
The Des Moines Register endorsed Senator Clinton for the Democratic Party nomination and Senator McCain for the Republican Party , saying they are the most competent and ready to lead of the 2008 presidential hopefuls .
Meanwhile , the Boston Globe newspaper endorsed Democratic Senator Barack Obama , saying he fulfills America 's need for a president with an intuitive sense of the wider world .
The newspaper also endorsed Senator McCain , calling him a straight talker who could help a polarized nation .
Iowa holds presidential caucuses on January 3 in which state voters from each party choose their preferred candidates for the November election .
The U.S. Food And Drug Administration ( FDA ) is searching for the cause of a salmonella outbreak that it has traced to raw tomatoes .
More than 165 people across the U.S. have become ill with salmonella poisoning since April .
On June 7 , the FDA issued an advisory , warning consumers not to eat several common types of tomatoes .
VOA Producer Barry Unger has more in a report voiced by Tony Budny .
The U.S. Secretary of Energy says it may take about six months to restore Iraq 's oil output to pre-war levels of 2.5 million barrels a day .
Samuel Bodman made the comments in Baghdad Tuesday , where he called Iraqi estimates that they could boost production to three million barrels a day " optimistic . "
Bodman also said Iraq is working on a new " hydrocarbons law " intended to set a legal framework to attract and regulate badly needed investment by foreign oil companies .
He said Iraqi officials hope to finish the law by the end of this year .
Iraq has the second largest oil reserves in the Middle East , but oil production suffers from years of sanctions , war , and insurgent attacks on key infrastructure .
Pakistani officials say pro-Taleban militants have beheaded a taxi driver in a northwestern tribal region after accusing him of being a U.S. informant .
The officials say the taxi driver 's headless body was found Tuesday in South Waziristan .
He had been missing since last week .
Militants accused the man of working with U.S. forces across the border in Afghanistan .
He was the second taxi driver to be killed in the Pakistani tribal region this month in similar circumstances .
Pro-Taleban militants have been blamed for killing scores of local tribesmen accused of helping Pakistani or U.S. forces .
Pakistan has deployed 80,000 troops along its border with Afghanistan to root out foreign militants and their local allies .
More than 2,500 Sri Lankan Marxists have marched in Colombo to press the government to cancel planned peace talks with Tamil rebels and to punish them instead for a rash of killings blamed on the rebels .
The People 's Liberation Front , which left the coalition government over plans to share tsunami aid with the rebels , said it is time to get tough with the Tigers .
The protesters carried a picture of slain Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar , an ethnic Tamil who helped outlaw the Tamil Tigers in the United States and Britain .
The Sri Lankan government has blamed the group for his assassination , a charge denied by the Tamil Tigers .
Norwegian mediators are arranging emergency talks between the government and the rebels to find ways to save a more than three-year-old cease-fire .
Hundreds of Saudi riot police have launched a crackdown on would-be protesters in the cities of Riyadh and Jeddah , in a show of force triggered by an exiled dissident 's call for anti-government demonstrations .
There are reports of arrests in both cities , but authorities have not yet commented .
Public protests are banned in the kingdom .
About an hour after the protests were set to begin Thursday , Western news reports say the demonstrations failed to materialize in either city .
Earlier this week , London-based dissident Saad al-Fagih , who heads the Movement for Islamic Reform , called for tens of thousands of Saudis to protest after noon prayers Thursday against the Saudi monarchy .
Last year , he accused Saudi agents of attempting to kill him in a stabbing incident at his London home .
The Saudi government denied any involvement .
The Paris Club of international creditors has agreed to cancel 80 percent of the debt Iraq owes member countries .
Officials say the deal , brokered in Berlin , is worth about $ 33 billion .
Club officials were set to make a formal announcement in Paris later Sunday .
The United States had sought as much as a 95 percent debt reduction as part of a strategy aimed at increasing the chances of survival for the post-war Iraqi government .
For its part , France had sought to have member countries initially waive 50 percent of the debt and then review the matter in three years .
Paris had argued that slashing the debt by more than 50 percent was unfair to other poor , debt-ridden nations that lack the potential oil revenues of Iraq .
Thai police say a bomb blast in southern Narthiwat province has injured at least 15 people .
The police say they do not yet know whether anyone was killed in the explosion , which occurred Thursday in the town of Sungai Kolok .
It was not immediately clear who was responsible .
But a Muslim separatist group called the Pattani United Liberation Organization had warned of a violent backlash over the deaths of some 84 people during protests Monday in southern Thailand .
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra has promised an investigation into the incident that brought widespread international outrage , particularly in majority Muslim countries Most of the deaths were attributed to suffocation after police packed detained protesters in a truck for transport to a detention center .
Sri Lankan officials say at least four people have been killed in clashes since unidentified gunmen killed a Tamil legislator Sunday .
Officials say soldiers shot and killed two suspected Tamil Tiger rebels during a search operation in the city of Batticaloa early Monday .
And two civilians were killed overnight in the neighboring Trincomalee district .
Meanwhile , preparations are underway for the funeral of Tamil legislator Joseph Pararajasingham , a key figure in the Tamil National Alliance party .
He was shot dead while attending Christmas Mass in Batticaloa .
The violence is the latest in a series of deadly attacks since rebel leader Velupillai Prabhakaran threatened to resume his struggle for an independent Tamil homeland if the government fails to reach a peace settlement within the next year .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko is hosting a two-day meeting of officials from three other former Soviet republics aimed at building democracy in the region .
Representatives of Azerbaijan , Georgia and Moldova join their Ukrainian colleagues in Kiev Monday ahead of a meeting of the four countries ' presidents on Tuesday .
Talks are expected to focus on energy issues as well as cooperation by the four nations , known under the acronym GUAM , in international organizations .
Ukrainian officials say the meeting will consider expanding the activities of the group and changing its name to the Organization for Democracy and Development .
The group was founded in 1997 with the aim of expending cooperation of the four members of the Commonwealth of Independent States .
Uzbekistan joined in 1999 , but announced its withdrawal three years later , complaining that the group had deviated from its goal of economic cooperation to a focus on political issues .
Chechnya 's Kremlin-backed government has dismissed a purported separatist statement pledging to observe a ceasefire throughout this month .
Russian media quote Chechen President Alu Alkhanov as describing the declaration as a " trick " and an attempt by the separatists to gain attention .
A web site linked to Chechen separatists posted the ceasefire offer Wednesday said to be from their top leaders Aslan Maskhadov and Shamil Basayev .
Meanwhile , an independent British television station has announced plans to broadcast an interview with Mr. Basayev in which he is said to warn of more terrorist attacks in Russia .
Russian officials have demanded that the station not air the segment , calling it irresponsible to spread the views of a wanted terrorist .
Mr. Basayev has taken responsibility for a number of bloody attacks , including the siege of a school last year that led to the deaths of more than 330 people .
Since independence in 1968 , Mauritius has developed from a low-income , agriculturally based economy to a middle-income diversified economy with growing industrial , financial , and tourist sectors .
For most of the period , annual growth has been in the order of 5 % to 6 % .
This remarkable achievement has been reflected in more equitable income distribution , increased life expectancy , lowered infant mortality , and a much-improved infrastructure .
The economy rests on sugar , tourism , textiles and apparel , and financial services , and is expanding into fish processing , information and communications technology , and hospitality and property development .
Sugarcane is grown on about 90 % of the cultivated land area and accounts for 15 % of export earnings .
The government 's development strategy centers on creating vertical and horizontal clusters of development in these sectors .
Mauritius has attracted more than 32,000 offshore entities , many aimed at commerce in India , South Africa , and China .
Investment in the banking sector alone has reached over $ 1 billion .
Mauritius , with its strong textile sector , has been well poised to take advantage of the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act ( AGOA ) .
Mauritius ' sound economic policies and prudent banking practices helped to mitigate negative effects from the global financial crisis in 2008 - 09 .
GDP grew 3.6 % in 2010 and the country continues to expand its trade and investment outreach around the globe .
Veterinary experts meeting in Paris say all countries regardless of their economic problems must fight bird flu .
The World Organization for Animal Health said Tuesday just one country failing to control bird flu can endanger the whole planet .
The experts warned that the deadly H5N1 virus is highly likely to infect domestic poultry in Europe as migrating wild birds return from Africa and the Mideast .
Bird flu has already struck a turkey farm in France .
France says 43 countries have either banned or curbed exports of French poultry .
Meanwhile , Sweden reported its first bird flu case in wild ducks Tuesday .
And bird flu was found in a cat on the German Baltic Sea island of Ruegen , where bird flu killed a number of wild birds .
Experts say there is no evidence cats can spread the disease to humans .
An anti-American protest turned violent Wednesday , as police and protesters clashed in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
Hundreds of demonstrators chanted " Death to America , " burned tires and blocked a main highway , as part of a protest against the previously canceled plans of a small U.S. church to burn hundreds of Qurans .
At least 35 police officers and 10 demonstrators were injured after police moved in to disperse stone-throwing crowds .
Afghan officials say police opened fire after being shot at by protesters .
Some of the demonstrators waved Taliban flags and police say some members of the militant group had infiltrated the crowd .
The American church 's plans to burn Qurans to mark the ninth anniversary of the September 11 attacks was called off last week amid international outrage .
Separately , two protesters were killed Sunday when police opened fire on a similar demonstration in eastern Logar province .
The U.S. Marine Corps has ordered two Marines not to speak to the media about their accusations of prisoner abuse at the Guantanamo Bay detention center .
Both Marines are part of a military legal team defending a detainee at Guantanamo Bay .
Marine officials say the gag order was issued to ensure the legal team 's actions conform to professional standards .
Last week Lieutenant Colonel Colby Vokey and Sergeant Heather Cerveny released a report which included a sworn statement from Cerveny alleging she heard guards describing the physical and mental abuse of prisoners .
The Defense Department is investigating the accusations .
The United States has been widely criticized for creating and maintaining the Guantanamo Bay prison , where suspects from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are held for questioning .
Saint Helena is a British Overseas Territory consisting of Saint Helena and Ascension Islands , and the island group of Tristan da Cunha .
Authorities in Ethiopia say several people were injured Tuesday from two explosions in the capital , Addis Ababa .
Officials say the first blast occurred at a hotel , injuring four people and damaging the building .
They say the second explosion happened in a market in Addis Ababa , but no injuries were reported there .
There was no immediate indication of what caused the explosions .
Swiss Reinsurance Company , the world 's second-biggest reinsurer , says the global insurance industry could face some $ 20 billion in claims from Hurricanes Rita and Wilma .
The Zurich-based company estimates the cost from Rita will be around $ 10 billion , while damage claims from Wilma could range from $ 6 billion to $ 12 billion .
Insurance companies were already reeling from Hurricane Katrina , which analysts say will cost the industry at least $ 40 billion .
Swiss Reinsurance announced Wednesday that its own earnings will be hurt by the recent string of storms to hit the U.S. Gulf coast .
The company says it expects claims of $ 750 million from Rita and Wilma , on top of an estimated $ 1.3 billion in claims from Katrina .
Reinsurers sell back-up insurance to other insurance companies , spreading risk so losses from major natural disasters can be covered .
Pakistani military officials say 14 of about 40 Pakistani soldiers who went missing following an attack on a security checkpoint have been found in neighboring Afghanistan .
Officials say the Frontier Corps paramilitary troops disappeared from the Mohmand tribal region after a Taliban insurgent attack along the Afghan border earlier this week .
Military spokesman Major General Athar Abbas told reporters Thursday that Afghan authorities handed over the troops to the Pakistani consulate in Jalalabad and the soldiers were being flown back to Pakistan .
Taliban militants said they captured 10 soldiers during the attack on the paramilitary post , but officials could not verify the claim .
On Wednesday , Pakistani officials said 10 paramilitary soldiers and at least 36 militants were killed in fighting in the country 's Bajaur tribal region .
The Pakistani military has twice declared victory there following offensives aimed at clearing the area of insurgents linked to the Taliban and al-Qaida .
Iran has rejected the possibility of suspending its uranium enrichment program , after world powers agreed to discuss sanctions against Tehran .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said Sunday that suspending Iran 's enrichment program is , in his words , completely unacceptable .
He also said Tehran wants to solve the issue through talks , not sanctions .
On Friday , the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany agreed to discuss possible non-military sanctions against Iran for its failure to meet an August 31 U.N. deadline to stop enriching uranium .
The United States and Britain have lobbied for sanctions , while Russia and China have said the standoff should be resolved through negotiations .
Western nations believe Iran wants to make nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
Pope Benedict XVI says he does not feel well enough to take many foreign trips , but said he he hopes to travel to what he calls a peaceful Holy Land .
In an interview with German television broadcast Sunday , Pope Benedict said the Vatican wants to mobilize all forces who he says recognize that war is the worst solution for all sides , even for those he calls the apparent victors .
Earlier Sunday , the pope voiced hope for the ceasefire in Lebanon and is urging the quick delivery of humanitarian aid once the truce takes hold .
NATO peacekeepers in Afghanistan say three Italian troops have been slightly wounded in a suicide car-bombing attack in the western city of Herat .
A spokesman for the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force told reporters in Kabul that the attacker was killed in the blast , which occurred Tuesday on the road from Herat airport to the city .
The spokesman says the Italians were wounded by flying glass from their vehicle , which was damaged by the explosion .
A purported Taleban spokesman , Qari Mohammed Yousuf , says his group carried out the attack - the latest in a spate of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan claimed by the Taleban .
A leading human rights group says Afghanistan 's human rights situation demands continuing monitoring by the United Nations .
Human Rights Watch issued a statement late Tuesday , urging the U.N. Human Rights Commission to keep Afghanistan on its agenda and to increase the number of monitors in the country .
The U.N. commission is holding its annual meeting in Geneva this week .
The U.S.-based group says there is still a human rights crisis in Afghanistan , where warlords and armed factions continue to dominate many regions and routinely abuse human rights , especially the rights of women and girls .
It also urged the United States to help increase human rights monitoring in Afghanistan , saying it is particularly important ahead of the country 's parliamentary election , which is expected in September .
U.S. aircraft maker Boeing has received $ 5 billion worth of orders for its new and upgraded version of its 747 jetliner .
Boeing says that Cargolux Airlines of Luxembourg has ordered 10 of its new 747-8 aircraft , with purchase rights for an additional 10 jets .
Japan-based Nippon Cargo has ordered eight of the new jets , with options for 10 more .
The airlines will begin receiving the new jets in 2009 .
The head of Boeing 's commercial airplanes division says the new 747 will utilize engines designed for its new 787 Dreamliner passenger jet to make it quieter and more efficient .
Boeing is competing against Europe 's Airbus consortium for dominance of the international aviation market .
Airbus is preparing its new A-380 superjumbo jet for service beginning next year .
Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova has nominated Bajram Kosumi as prime minister of the Serbian province .
Mr. Kosumi is a close associate of former Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj , who resigned last week and surrendered to the United Nations tribunal in The Hague after it indicted him for war crimes .
Kosovo lawmakers are expected to consider the nomination next week .
The appointment comes just months before Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian-led government and Serbian leaders are due to open talks on the future of the province .
Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian majority wants independence , while its Serb minority wants the province to remain part of Serbia .
The United Nations has been administering the area since 1999 , when NATO air strikes against Yugoslavia forced Serbian and Yugoslav security forces to withdraw from the area .
A former U.S. contractor in Iraq has pleaded guilty to bribery , conspiracy and money laundering involving millions of dollars meant for reconstruction .
Robert Stein entered his plea in U.S. District Court in Washington Thursday .
Stein worked for the Coalition Provision Authority in Iraq , the temporary U.S.-led government , handing out millions of dollars intended to rebuild the city of Hilla , south of Baghdad .
Stein admitted he formed a ring of co-conspirators who diverted reconstruction money to such personal use as luxury cars , jewelry and U.S. real estate .
Stein has a prior fraud conviction and it was not immediately clear why he was allowed to control tens of millions of dollars , much of it in cash .
U.S. businessman Philip Bloom and five U.S. servicemen have also been implicated in the scheme .
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso says Tokyo is planning to host a meeting with Israeli , Palestinian and Jordanian officials next month to help peace efforts in the Middle East .
Speaking Tuesday in Tokyo , Aso said plans have not been finalized , but Japan hopes the meeting will happen in mid-March .
He said the meeting would be a follow-up to a proposal by former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi during a visit to the Middle East last July .
The proposal included Japanese economic assistance for development projects on the West Bank .
Mr. Koizumi 's trip to the Middle East was the first by a Japanese leader in a decade .
Japan 's current leader , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe , has not announced any official plans to visit the region .
Sudan 's government and southern rebels have signed a peace deal formally ending Africa 's longest-running war .
Sudanese Vice President Al Osman Mohammad Taha and rebel leader John Garang pledged to end more than 21 years of fighting during a ceremony Sunday in Nairobi , Kenya .
The ceremony included U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell who urged Sudan 's government to advance peace in a separate conflict in the western Darfur region .
Mr. Powell said Sudan 's future and its relationship with the United States rely on achieving peace throughout the entire nation .
Today 's peace deal includes terms for sharing power and oil resources , and calls on rebels and ruling party officials to form an interim coalition government , followed in six years by a southern vote on independence .
An estimated two million people have died during the war between the Arab-controlled government and mostly black southern rebels , mainly of famine and disease .
Indonesian health officials say local tests have confirmed a man has tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu virus .
Authorities say the man , in his 20s , is in stable condition at a hospital in West Sumatra province .
Friday , the World Health Organization confirmed that a one-year-old girl had become the 23rd person in Indonesia to die of the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Also Friday , representatives from the Pan American Health Organization , the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture and the Organization of American States met in Washington to discuss ways to head off a possible bird flu epidemic .
About 25 centers throughout the region already monitor outbreaks of influenza .
With the world sending much of its financial and technical aid to other geographic areas , the officials say it is important for the region to pool its resources .
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami has issued a new warning that Tehran will respond to any hostile military action from the United States , but he says he does not believe U.S. forces will attack his country .
Speaking in Uganda Thursday , Mr. Khatami said Tehran does not welcome tensions with Washington , and said he believes the possibility of a U.S. attack is " very low . "
The two governments have been locked in a three-year stand-off over U.S. allegations that Iran is seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran flatly denies the charges .
Mr. Khatami 's remarks follow a published report Sunday that said the United States is carrying out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
The White House rejected the New Yorker magazine report , saying it was riddled with inaccuracies and conclusions not based on fact .
Leaders from Africa and Germany are meeting in Berlin for a conference aimed at promoting sustainable development and economic growth in Africa .
Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen are joining German Chancellor Angela Merkel in opening the conference .
The German government says the two-day meeting of the African Partnership Forum will serve to prepare recommendations for summits of the Group of Eight and the African Union .
G8 leaders are scheduled to meet in northern Germany on June 6 .
The Africa Partnership Initiative was established by the G8 in 2003 as a way to encourage dialogue between African nations and the world 's wealthiest countries .
Germany currently holds the rotating European Union and G8 presidencies .
AN ASS , being driven along a high road , suddenly started off and bolted to the brink of a deep precipice .
While he was in the act of throwing himself over , his owner seized him by the tail , endeavoring to pull him back .
When the Ass persisted in his effort , the man let him go and said , " Conquer , but conquer to your cost . "
A willful beast must go his own way
First explored by the Spaniards in the 16th century and then settled by the English in the mid-17th century , Suriname became a Dutch colony in 1667 .
With the abolition of slavery in 1863 , workers were brought in from India and Java .
Independence from the Netherlands was granted in 1975 .
Five years later the civilian government was replaced by a military regime that soon declared a socialist republic .
It continued to exert control through a succession of nominally civilian administrations until 1987 , when international pressure finally forced a democratic election .
In 1990 , the military overthrew the civilian leadership , but a democratically elected government - a four-party coalition - returned to power in 1991 .
The coalition expanded to eight parties in 2005 and ruled until August 2010 , when voters returned former military leader Desire BOUTERSE and his opposition coalition to power .
Angola is rebuilding its country after the end of a 27-year civil war in 2002 .
Fighting between the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) , led by Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS , and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , led by Jonas SAVIMBI , followed independence from Portugal in 1975 .
Peace seemed imminent in 1992 when Angola held national elections , but fighting picked up again by 1996 .
Up to 1.5 million lives may have been lost - and 4 million people displaced - in the quarter century of fighting .
SAVIMBI 's death in 2002 ended UNITA 's insurgency and strengthened the MPLA 's hold on power .
President DOS SANTOS held legislative elections in September 2008 and , despite promising to hold presidential elections in 2009 , has since pushed through a new constitution that calls for elections in 2012 .
Pro-government lawmakers in Venezuela have appointed 17 new judges to the Supreme Court , strengthening the administration of President Hugo Chavez .
In Caracas Monday , legislators from the ruling party pushed the appointments through the 165-seat Congress .
Opposition leaders condemned the appointments as unconstitutional , and then walked out of the session .
Earlier this year , lawmakers approved measures that expanded the number of Supreme Court justices from 20 to 32 .
They also changed the rules to allow Congress to appoint judges with a simple majority , and to fire sitting justices .
Human rights groups have condemned the measures , saying they are a threat to democracy .
Among the new justices is Francisco Carrasquero , head of the nation 's electoral council .
Critics accuse him of helping Mr. Chavez defeat a recall in August .
Russia says it thinks the top threats to its future security will come from NATO expansion and rivalry over energy resources .
The Kremlin on Wednesday unveiled its new National Security Strategy , outlining its priorities through the year 2020 .
The policy paper was signed by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev .
It says Russia can not rule out the use of military force to " solve emerging problems " around the competition for energy sources .
The document says Moscow hopes to build " an equal and full-fledged strategic partnership with the United States , " but criticized U.S. plans for a missile defense shield in Europe .
The new security strategy says Russia views any expansion of NATO to its neighboring countries to be " unacceptable . "
That remark is likely aimed at Georgia and Ukraine , which have sought to join the alliance over Moscow 's objections .
A new film premiering this week in South Korea dramatizes the suffering faced by tens of thousands of North Koreans who flee their country 's poverty and repression .
North Korean rights activists say the film 's emotional power may draw global attention to the issue .
VOA 's Kurt Achin has a preview .
New violence has killed at least 11 people in Iraq , casting a shadow over celebrations to mark the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
North of Baghdad , near Baquba , gunmen attacked a police checkpoint in the town of Buhriz , killing six officers and wounding at least 10 others .
In the town of Taza , near Kirkuk , a roadside bomb exploded , hitting a convoy of Iraqi soldiers .
Five were killed and four were wounded .
And the U.S. military said a roadside bomb blast in east Baghdad killed an American soldier .
Meanwhile , a senior British general , Major General James Dutton , told reporters that sophisticated technology and explosives for making bombs are entering Iraq from neighboring Iran .
The general said it is still not clear whether Iran 's government , its intelligence service , or other unspecified groups are involved .
Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650 , Anguilla was administered by Great Britain until the early 19th century , when the island - against the wishes of the inhabitants - was incorporated into a single British dependency along with Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Several attempts at separation failed .
In 1971 , two years after a revolt , Anguilla was finally allowed to secede ; this arrangement was formally recognized in 1980 with Anguilla becoming a separate British dependency .
Witnesses and aid groups in Sudan say at least 40 people have been killed in tribal clashes in Darfur .
The witnesses said Sunday at least 21 people were wounded in the violence Saturday .
Tribal conflicts are becoming an increasing concern in Darfur , where people are already struggling with fighting between rebels and government forces along with militias backed by Khartoum .
The United States has called the fighting genocide against the people of Darfur .
More than 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur since 2003 .
That was when a conflict over land and water resources turned violent after non-Arab rebels accused the Arab-dominated government of neglect .
The government has been accused of arming militias , called Janjaweed , to crush the rebels in a brutal campaign of rape and murder .
Some reports say tribal members blamed Saturday 's attack on the Janjaweed .
Kuwait has found the deadly H5N1 variety of avian flu in one of two infected birds culled by authorities .
The strain was found in a migrating flamingo , while a second , imported bird had the milder H5N2 variant .
Meanwhile , Vietnam said Friday , it will set up a medical facility for Cambodian bird flu patients near the border between the two countries in an effort to contain the spread of the virus .
Health officials said the small ward will be built at a hospital in Kien Luong district , 30 kilometers from the border , so Cambodian patients do not have to travel more deeply into Vietnam for treatment .
And on Thursday , China reported another outbreak of bird flu in a flock of chickens in northeastern Liaoning province - the country 's seventh outbreak in a month .
United Nations officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo have paid tribute to Bangladeshi peacekeepers killed in an ambush Friday .
Dominique McAdams , head of the U.N. bureau in Congo 's eastern Ituri province spoke to international soldiers Saturday at Bunia airport , where the bodies of the nine peacekeeers were to be loaded on a plane to Bangladesh .
She said the Bangladeshi peacekeepers wanted to improve the lives of ordinary Congolese and to help free them from the grip of what she called " demented " armed elements .
Ms. McAdams said the U.N. mission must do its utmost to ensure that the Bangladeshis ' sacrifice will not be in vain .
The United Nations accused local armed groups , which it did not name , of being behind what it said were premeditated killings .
A public opinion poll released in Paksitan on June 20th shows that 58 percent of Pakistanis support talks with the tribal militants , and that anti-U.S. sentiments remain negative .
The pollsters found more than half of the respondents blame the U.S. for the violence occurring in Pakistan while few hold al-Qaida responsible , but that the U.S. has an opportunity to turn public opinion in its favor .
The survey was conducted in Pakistan by two Washington-based not profit organizations :
Terror Free Tomorrow and a think tank , the New America Foundation .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna has more .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says she welcomes the invitation by Iraq 's independent electoral commission to international monitors to review complaints of fraud in this month 's parliamentary vote .
Ms. Rice said Thursday that the panel has " again demonstrated its commitment to fair and credible elections that meet international standards . "
She says the United States strongly backs the review process and looks forward to final results that she says reflect the will of the Iraqi people .
Sunni Arab and secular Shi'ite political factions have alleged widespread fraud in the December 15 election .
Initial results show that Shi'ite candidates won 130 seats in the 275-seat parliament .
Many Sunnis have held street protests demanding a re-vote .
The U.N. representative to Iraq 's election commission has said the parliamentary elections were transparent with relatively few instances of fraud .
President Bush has rejected calls for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq , saying it would be a " huge mistake " at this point .
At a news conference Monday , Mr. Bush said that leaving the country now would send the wrong message to reformers in the Middle East , and embolden Iran and extremists .
He added he is committed to securing peace in Iraq and strengthening its government , saying a failure in Iraq would threaten the security of the United States .
The president said U.S. military commanders are continuing to adjust their tactics to prevent attacks by terrorist groups and end violence among sectarian groups .
Some U.S. lawmakers have been calling on the president to set a date for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq .
In Baghdad , U.S. military officials said a service member died in a roadside bomb attack Monday .
A KANGAROO hopping awkwardly along with some bulky object concealed in her pouch met a Zebra , and desirous of keeping his attention upon himself , said :
" Your costume looks as if you might have come out of the penitentiary . "
" Appearances are deceitful , " replied the Zebra , smiling in the consciousness of a more insupportable wit , " or I should have to think that you had come out of the Legislature . "
A tribal chieftain in Sudan 's Darfur region says at least 55 people have been killed and more than 80 others wounded in fighting between the south Sudan army and Darfuri Arab tribes .
Rizeigat tribal leader Mohamed Eissa Aliu said the fighting occurred Friday .
He said reinforcements from both sides are converging on the area near the border of the southern state of Western Bahr al-Ghazal .
Aliu 's account to Western reporters has not been confirmed .
The south Sudan army confirmed Saturday it had come under attack , but it said the assault came from the northern-based central government army and not Rizeigat tribesmen .
Tensions in Sudan remain high following the country 's first multi-party elections in 24 years .
The polls earlier this month were boycotted by several opposition parties and marred by a series of technical and logistical problems .
The company that owns the Chilean mine 33 men were trapped in for more than two months has agreed to sell its assets to avoid bankruptcy .
Judge Rocio Perez said Thursday creditors have given the San Esteban mining company 15 months to repay its debts .
Thirty-three of the company 's miners were rescued last month from a mine in northern Chile after a tunnel collapse on August 5 left them trapped for 69 days .
Chile 's Radio Cooperativa reports some of the money will be used as severance pay for the 300 miners of the San Jose mine who lost their jobs after the collapse .
The mining company also owes the Chilean government between $ 10 and $ 20 million for the rescue operation .
Chilean courts are holding the company 's total wealth , which amounts to about $ 10 million .
THE Dog , as created , had a rigid tail , but after some centuries of a cheerless existence , unappreciated by Man , who made him work for his living , he implored the Creator to endow him with a wag .
This being done he was able to dissemble his resentment with a sign of affection , and the earth was his and the fulness thereof .
Observing this , the Politician ( an animal created later ) petitioned that a wag might be given him too .
As he was incaudate it was conferred upon his chin , which he now wags with great profit and gratification except when he is at his meals .
A longtime donor for U.S. Democratic presidential contender Barack Obama went on trial Monday , accused of money laundering and extorting bribes .
Prosecutors charge that Antoin " Tony " Rezko tried to extort millions of dollars in kickbacks from investment houses that wanted to do business with Illinois state boards .
Jury selection started Monday .
As Rezko sat in a Chicago courtroom , Illinois Senator Obama was campaigning in Texas and answering questions by reporters about his relationship with Rezko .
Obama said Rezko was a friend and supporter for many years , but that the charges facing him are not related to the senator .
Obama allegedly received $ 10,000 from a Rezko associate , which the senator 's campaign team later gave to charity .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has arrived in Haiti for a one-day visit aimed at showing U.S. support for elections scheduled there for November .
Ms. Rice is to meet Tuesday with U.N. peacekeepers and leaders of the interim government , including President Boniface Alexandre and Prime Minister Gerard Latortue .
The elections in Haiti will be the first since a political crisis in 2004 drove then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide from office .
Haiti has been torn by gang warfare and political violence since Mr. Aristide 's departure .
The United Nations , which has 7,000 peacekeepers in Haiti , and the 15-member Caribbean community have offered to help ensure the balloting is free and fair .
A private funeral for the late United States Chief Justice William Rehnquist will be held Wednesday at Arlington National Cemetery , near Washington D.C. Memorial observances began Tuesday for the conservative chief justice in the Great Hall of the Supreme Court building in Washington .
President Bush paid his respects to the late chief justice , pausing for a moment of silence beside his flag-draped coffin .
The public memorial continues until noon today .
Mr. Rehnquist died of cancer Saturday at the age of 80 .
He was first appointed to the nine-member court by President Nixon in 1972 .
President Reagan appointed him chief justice 14 years later , in 1986 .
President Bush has nominated federal appeals court judge John Roberts to be the next chief justice .
Senate confirmation hearings for Mr. Roberts are scheduled to begin Monday .
U.S. President Barack Obama has urged Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to find out all the facts of the deadly raid on a Gaza-bound international aid flotilla .
The two leaders spoke by telephone Monday shortly after Mr. Netanyahu canceled his visit to Washington because of the raid .
They had been scheduled to meet Tuesday at the White House .
The White House said Mr. Obama expressed deep regret at the loss life in the raid and said it was important to learn all the circumstances surrounding the event .
Mr. Obama said he understood Mr. Netanyahu 's decision to return to Israel immediately .
The two agreed to reschedule their meeting at " the first opportunity " .
Hundreds of protesters marched through the streets of Guatemala City Friday to voice opposition to the Central American Free Trade Agreement with the United States .
The protesters said the pact , known as CAFTA , will benefit only large companies and harm the poor .
Supporters say the deal will help lift the region out of poverty .
The trade agreement was supposed to take effect on January 1 , but was delayed .
U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman , however , recommended Friday that the accord with El Salvador take effect on March 1 .
The other countries that make up CAFTA have not yet met rules proposed by the United States .
CAFTA also comprises Costa Rica , Honduras , Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic .
Costa Rica is the only country within CAFTA that has not yet ratified the agreement .
Palestinian medical officials say one militant has been killed and at least 14 other Palestinians have been wounded during an overnight incursion by Israeli forces in the southern Gaza Strip .
Witnesses say the Palestinians were wounded after troops backed by at least 25 tanks and armed bulldozers and aircraft entered an area east of the town of Khan Younis .
They say the militant , from the Islamic Jihad movement , was killed in an Israeli air strike targeting a house where several Palestinians were meeting .
Witnesses say the Israeli air force carried out at least two air strikes on the area .
Israeli forces regularly raid the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip to stop Palestinian militants from firing rockets into southern Israel .
Officials in Niger report a new outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Government officials Friday said tests have confirmed the presence of H5N1 in the village of Boko Maigao , in southern Niger .
Thousands of birds were slaughtered after scientists detected H5N1 in two other parts of southern Niger back in February .
Several west African countries are grappling with outbreaks of the disease , including Niger 's neighbors Nigeria and Burkina Faso .
No human cases have been detected in the area , though the disease is believed to have killed at least 124 people around the world since 2003 .
The European Union has banned the import of live birds and feathers from Turkey because of the threat of bird flu .
EU officials say the ban is needed after tests confirmed the presence of an avian virus in Turkey , where thousands of birds are being killed in an effort to prevent its spread .
The officials say they still have not determined which strain of bird flu it is .
But Turkish officials say the outbreak is contained in a small area of the western province of Balikesir .
The European Union is also monitoring the situation in Romania , where tests are underway and more than 1,000 birds have been killed after a suspected outbreak of bird flu .
Bird flu has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
Nigerian police say four people have been detained for allegedly stealing election machines at the Lagos airport .
Police say the suspects were taken into custody overnight Friday .
They allegedly stole 20 of what are known as " direct data capture machines " after being unloaded at the airport Monday .
Authorities say 16 of the machines have been recovered .
Police are investigating whether others may have been involved in the heist .
Officials say the thefts will not impact voter registration set for January 15 and lasting two weeks .
Nigeria will hold elections for president , parliament and state level races in April .
News reports said a small aircraft that crashed in northeast China may have been a North Korean fighter jet .
Beijing 's official Xinhua news agency said the aircraft went down Tuesday in Fushun County , located in Liaoning province .
An unnamed government source told Xinhua the jet " might be " a North Korean plane .
Xinhua did not identify the pilot or the aircraft .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency said intelligence sources believe the aircraft appeared to be a Soviet-era jet fighter , after earlier reporting said it may have been a helicopter .
The anonymous sources said the pilot could have lost his way while flying to Russia .
Yonhap said the pilot , who was the only person on board the aircraft , was killed .
Fushun is located about 150 kilometers from the North Korean city of Sinuiju , where a military airbase is located .
North Korea has lashed out at Japan 's new defense guidelines .
An editorial in the official Rodon Sinmun newspaper Sunday says Japan has adopted the so-called " U.S. vicious hostile policy " toward North Korea , and is joining in U.S. efforts to " stifle " the Pyongyang government .
Japan 's new defense plan , adopted in December , eased a ban on weapons exports , allowing the country to pursue a missile defense program with Washington .
The plan also singled out the threats posed by North Korean missiles .
The North Korean comments follow a meeting in Washington Saturday top diplomatic and defense officials from both the United States and Japan .
The two sides issued a joint statement saying North Korea 's nuclear program poses a serious challenge to the international Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
Indonesia has received permission from Swiss drug giant Roche to locally produce Tamiflu , the drug thought to be most effective in treating bird flu in humans .
Indonesian Health Minister Siti Fadillah Supari made the announcement Friday , in Jakarta .
Indonesia is the second country to get the go-ahead to produce the anti-flu medicine , along with Vietnam .
Thursday , Indonesian agriculture officials said hundreds of chickens infected with the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus died in Aceh province .
And in Vietnam , public health officials said a 15-year-old boy from the northern port city of Haiphong tested positive for the same H5N1 strain .
The findings have not yet been confirmed by the World Health Organization .
Elsewhere , China also reported a new outbreak of the deadly strain in poultry in the northwestern region of Xinjiang .
More than 60 people have died from bird flu in Asia since 2003 .
India says its security forces have killed 11 suspected Islamic militants who infiltrated into Indian-controlled Kashmir from the Pakistani part of Kashmir .
Military officials say the 11 were killed during a gunbattle early Friday .
Officials say the militants opened fire after Indian troops ordered them to surrender .
India accuses Pakistan of arming and funding Kashmiri rebels , a charge Islamabad denies .
Both nations claim all of Kashmir and have fought two of their three wars over the Himalayan region .
The two sides have been engaged in a peace process since January 2004 to resolve all of their disputes , including Kashmir .
Four-time champion Argentina has defeated Colombia , 2-1 , while Nigeria blanked Ukraine , 1-0 , to reach the quarterfinals of the World Youth football ( soccer ) championships in the Netherlands .
In Emmen , Julio Barroso 's goal in injury time gave the under-age-20 Argentines the win after his team came back from a 1-0 deficit .
Colombia 's Harrison Otalvaro had opened the scoring in the 52nd minute .
Argentina 's Lionel Messi tied the match six minutes later .
Argentina takes on Spain , which scored a 3-0 win over Turkey .
Meanwhile in Doetinchem , Nigeria defeated Ukraine , 1-0 , on Taye Taiwo 's 80th-minute goal .
In the final eight , Nigeria faces the host country , which beat Chile , 3-0 .
The other quarterfinals have Germany playing Brazil and Morocco taking on Italy .
One of the world 's top think-tanks says the Middle East is more secure than a year ago , in part because of U.S. policies promoting democracy in the region .
But the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies also says that al-Qaida terrorists continue to use the U.S. presence in Iraq as a recruitment tool across much of the Muslim world .
In its annual survey , the IISS hails progress in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , the promise of multi-party elections in Egypt , and the popular uprising against Syria in Lebanon .
It calls U.S. policy " fairly effective " in encouraging political reforms throughout the region .
The report calls the November , 2004 death of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat the tipping point in the push to end the Israel-Palestinian conflict .
It also notes President Bush 's use of U.S. influence to bring the two sides together .
Chinese authorities say they have punished 31 officials and fired 12 others because of their poor handling of relief supplies and response to the country 's massive earthquake last month .
China 's top anti-corruption official , Ma Wen , told reporters Monday that most of the demerits and firings were a response to complaints about misuse of tents and improper distribution of food and other goods .
China 's May 12 quake killed nearly 70,000 people and left millions homeless .
The government has previously warned that it would come down hard on those who misused aid funds or relief supplies .
Corruption is rampant across China , and there is concern about the use and destination of donations .
During Monday 's briefing for correspondents in Beijing , a top finance official reminded government departments to cut spending by five percent this year to help with the quake relief effort .
Medics treating cases of Marburg fever in Angola say a hospital at the center of the outbreak should be closed to all non-emergency patients to stop the disease from spreading .
Doctors Without Borders , a global relief organization , recommends suspending non-emergency services at the hospital in Angola 's northwestern Uige province , where victims of the fatal virus are being held in isolation .
The organization 's emergency coordinator in Uige says this step is necessary to reduce infection risks .
So far , Marburg fever has killed at least 192 of the more than 200 people known to be infected .
The Ebola-like hemorrhagic fever spreads through contact with bodily fluids , and can kill rapidly .
The World Health Organization has sent in teams to remove bodies and trace contacts with infected patients .
The South Asia Free Trade Agreement , or SAFTA , came into effect Sunday , paving the way for free trade of goods among the member nations .
India 's Commerce Minister Kamal Nath said implementation of the accord will benefit the entire region - a home to 1.5 billion people .
Under the agreement , the more developed member countries - India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka - will reduce their customs duties to between zero and five percent by the year 2013 .
Less developed Bangladesh , Bhutan , the Maldives and Nepal have until 2018 to do the same .
Leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation , or SAARC , agreed to forge ahead with the free trade zone at their summit in Pakistan in 2004 .
Final results from Sunday 's Ukrainian parliamentary elections show the pro-Russian party of former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych won the most votes followed by two reformist groups .
The central election committee announced the results Thursday showing Mr. Yanukovych 's Party of Regions with more than 32 percent of the vote .
The liberal bloc of former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko won more than 22 percent , while supporters of President Viktor Yushchenko came in third with just under 14 percent .
Only two other parties , the Socialists and Communists , managed to clear the three percent barrier to gain parliamentary representation .
Wednesday , Ms. Timoshenko urged Yushchenko allies to band together to keep the opposition from returning to power .
The former prime minister , one of the leaders of the 2004 Orange Revolution that brought Mr. Yushchenko to power , called Sunday 's vote Ukraine 's first honest election in 15 years of independence .
Lebanese officials say a suspect in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has been taken to a Beirut hospital .
Former Lebanese intelligence chief Raymond Azar , who was arrested in August , was moved from his prison cell to a hospital intensive care unit .
Officials say he is suffering from a heart problem .
His arrest , along with three other Lebanese generals , was on the recommendation of the United Nations commission investigating Mr. Hariri 's killing .
The head of that commission , German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , had been expected to interview five Syrian officials Tuesday in Vienna .
But a U.N. diplomat says they are likely to be questioned next week .
Last month , Mr. Mehlis issued a report implicating top Syrian officials in the February assassination .
Syria has repeatedly denied any role , and has pledged to cooperate with the U.N. investigation .
German lawmakers reflected on the pains of the holocaust Friday and urged the world to learn from the past on this first international Holocaust Remembrance Day .
German Parliament Speaker Norbert Lammert said recent statements by Iran 's president describing the Holocaust as a " myth " show the need for this day of remembrance .
He said time will never diminish the need to commemorate the millions of Jews and others who died at the hands of the Nazis .
In Poland , leaders also participated in ceremonies to mark this day , 61 years ago , when Soviet troops liberated the Auschwitz concentration camp .
In November , the United Nations declared January 27 the International Day of Commemoration .
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan has called those who deny the Holocaust " bigots . "
He said the Holocaust must always be remembered with shame and horror .
The Beijing skyline has undergone massive transformation in preparation for the Olympics .
The people who were evicted from their homes to make way for some of the new development are not happy , though , and were among the first to publicly protest this week , even before the games began .
Stephanie Ho reports from Beijing .
President Bush has repeated his vow to work together with the new Democrat-controlled Congress on spending measures and education .
Mr. Bush said in his weekly radio address Saturday some Democrats agree with him that balancing the budget is a top priority .
He also called on Congress to reauthorize his " No Child Left Behind " Act , which establishes testing and benchmarks for measuring a student 's progress .
Democrats say the former Republican-controlled Congress has not authorized the money needed to fully fund the law .
Meanwhile , in the Democrats ' weekly response , Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of the southwestern state of Nevada spoke out against troop increases in Iraq that Mr. Bush is expected to announce in the coming week .
Reid called any such increases " a serious mistake . "
He called instead for phased redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq in the next four to six months .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is in Kashmir , hours after soldiers killed two suspected separatists near the stadium where the Indian leader plans to deliver a speech Wednesday .
The rebels were killed in a gunbattle that broke out in Kashmir 's summer capital , Srinagar , after troops surrounded a building where authorities had learned the militants had taken up positions .
After arriving in Kashmir under heavy security for a two-day visit , Mr. Singh visited a Muslim holy site and spoke to students at a medical college .
He repeated his offer to hold talks with all Kashmiri separatist groups in an effort to resolve their decades-old dispute .
Earlier , Indian troops began pulling out of Kashmir in the first phase of a gradual withdrawal of half the soldiers stationed there .
Indian police say a bus and van collision has killed 34 people , including the bus driver , and injured more than two dozen other people .
Investigators say the van was returning from a funeral with mourners Saturday when the crash occurred near Badaun , in Uttar Pradesh state .
The World Health Organiation says India has the highest number of road fatalities in the world .
Authorities say more than 110,000 people die each year on India 's roads , due mainly to speeding , bad roads and poorly maintained vehicles .
The chariot of one of Egypt 's most famous ancient pharaohs is heading to New York City this week to join the Discovery Times Square Exposition exhibit of the boy ruler .
Egyptian antiquities official , Zahi Hawass said Monday the trip will be the first time the chariot of King Tutankhamun has traveled outside of Egypt .
King Tut 's chariot was found in his tomb when Howard Carter discovered it in 1922 .
Officials say the chariot 's extremely worn wheels could indicate it was used for hunting .
An antiquities official suggests that King Tut may have fallen off this chariot during a hunting trip , in an accident that could ultimately have led to his early death .
The chariot was originally slated to join the exhibit in April but was delayed by travel complications .
Pakistan 's ruling parties are deliberating the future of the coalition as a deadline looms for the reinstatement of deposed judges .
Aides close to the Pakistan Muslim League ( N ) say party leaders will meet Monday to decide whether to stay in the coalition with the Pakistan People 's Party .
Former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , the head of the Pakistan Muslim League ( N ) , has indicated his party could join the opposition if the PPP does not agree by Monday to restore judges fired by former President Pervez Musharraf .
Analysts say PPP leader Asif Ali Zardari is reluctant to reinstate the judges because of concerns they could reopen old corruption cases against him .
Zardari announced plans Saturday to run for president , after Mr. Musharraf stepped down to avoid impeachment charges this past week .
A smaller coalition partner , the Awami National Party , announced its support for Zardari today .
Election officials predict a large turnout Sunday as Thailand 's 44 million eligible voters deliver what is being seen as a judgment on the policies of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra .
At one final campaign rally , Mr. Thaksin urged the crowd to give him a strong mandate so that his Thai Rak Thai party can govern without coalition partners .
Opinion polls give Mr. Thaksin a commanding lead and the opposition is appealing for at least two hundred of the five hundred seats in the national assembly .
They say this will allow them to maintain checks and balances in government .
Official results are expected within 30 days but a preliminary tally has been promised by Monday .
A U.S. diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks on Wednesday says Israel 's blockade of Gaza aimed to " keep Gaza 's economy on the brink of collapse . "
The document says Israeli officials repeatedly confirmed the embargo 's goal was to keep Gaza 's economy functioning " at its lowest possible level without getting a humanitarian crisis . "
The newly released cable was published by Norway 's Aftenposten newspaper .
The document was dated November 3 , 2008 , just weeks before Israel launched an offensive in the Gaza Strip to stop Hamas militants from firing rockets on Israeli towns .
Israel says the blockade seeks to weaken Hamas .
Humanitarian groups argue the embargo is taking the heaviest toll on civilians , while Hamas militants continue to smuggle in building materials , weapons and cash through tunnels under the border with Egypt .
The U.N. Security Council is considering a draft statement condemning North Korea 's long-range rocket launch earlier this month .
The Council 's five permanent members and Japan reached an agreement on a draft statement Saturday and presented it to the full Council within hours .
The draft " condemns " the April 5 launch and says North Korea must comply fully with Security Council Resolution 1718 , which banned such launches .
It also says the Security Council will demand North Korea not conduct any further launches .
And it calls for an early resumption of six-party disarmament talks with Pyongyang .
Japan had been seeking a Security Council resolution -- a measure seen as a stronger response .
But Tokyo now says it would consider a Council presidential statement instead .
The Security Council had been deadlocked for almost a week over how it should respond to the North Korean launch .
The international agency that suspended millions of dollars in AIDS grants to Uganda last week says it likely will resume funding by October .
A spokesman for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS , Tuberculosis and Malaria , Bradford Herbert , said Wednesday that Uganda has taken quick steps to resolve concerns about the mismanagement of agency funding .
He told reporters in Kampala the suspension will be lifted as long as progress continues .
Just days after grants to Uganda were suspended , the government appointed an international auditing firm to oversee its AIDS programs .
Ernst and Young will run Uganda 's Project Management Unit - which disburses grants .
Mr. Herbert said three Global Fund staffers will stay in Uganda to monitor the project and make sure that life-saving drugs are distributed .
A top Ugandan finance ministry official , Chris Kasami , said the government is committed to recovering any money that may have been stolen .
Cuban President Raul Castro says he is open to direct talks with the incoming U.S. president , saying he believes Barack Obama is an honest and sincere man who could improve relations between the two countries .
However , Mr. Castro says he is in no hurry , and is not sure Mr. Obama can change what the Cuban leader called the " overall hostile U.S. policy " towards Cuba .
President-elect Obama has said he would be willing to speak with Cuba 's leaders .
But he also says he will keep the long-standing economic embargo as a way to push for democratic change .
Mr. Castro 's comments , aired Friday on state television , came the day after Cuba marked the 50th anniversary of the revolution that brought his brother Fidel Castro to power .
Hamas ordered all smuggling tunnels along the Gaza border with Egypt to be immediately closed , cutting the flow of critical goods into the Gaza strip .
Hamas , which controls Gaza , temporarily shut the tunnels at Egypt 's urging , after Israel warned tourists in the Sinai peninsula to immediately leave because of a terrorist plot to kidnap Israelis .
Security officials say Israel warned that the tunnels could be used in the kidnapping plot .
The Associated Press quoted a Hamas official who said Gaza leaders feared Israel could launch new airstrikes on the tunnels .
Israel and Egypt sealed their borders with the Gaza Strip in 2007 to prevent Hamas militants from getting weapons .
But the blockades also have slowed efforts to rebuild Gaza and prevented Palestinians from accessing basic necessities .
Smugglers have skirted the blockade by bringing in goods through the tunnels .
The head of the Arab League says Syria will " soon " take steps toward withdrawing its troops from Lebanon .
Arab League chief Amr Mussa made his statement Monday after meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus .
Mr. Mussa said the Syrian leader stressed " more than once " his intention to implement the 1989 Taif agreement and withdraw the 14,000 troops .
The Taif agreement , which ended Lebanon 's civil war , committed Syria to move its troops to Lebanon 's Bekaa Valley ahead of later talks on a complete pullout .
Mr. Mussa spoke as thousands of protesters rallied in Beirut to demand the troops ' departure and the resignation of Lebanon 's pro-Syrian government .
The demonstration came a week after the car bomb attack that killed former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and at least 14 others .
Lebanon 's opposition politicians blame Syria for the killing .
Syria insists it was not involved .
Attorneys have said U.S. authorities will deport a former Florida professor and Palestinian rights activist who was acquitted on terrorism charges in December .
Attorneys involved in the case of Sami al-Arian say he has reached an agreement with prosecutors to plead guilty to a terrorism-related charge .
A jury in Florida found him not guilty last year on eight counts , including conspiracy to murder people overseas .
The jury deadlocked on nine other charges .
Al-Arian had been accused of helping to finance the activities of Islamic Jihad , a militant group blamed for terrorist attacks in Israel .
The University of South Florida fired al-Arian from his position as a computer science professor after he was indicted in 2003 , saying he used his academic position for noneducational , improper purposes .
He has been in jail since the indictment .
Iraqi police say insurgents have carried out at least four more car bomb attacks in Baghdad and the northern city of Mosul , killing nine people and wounding nearly 30 others .
The attacks are part of a sharp upsurge in bombings since Baghdad 's new government was announced last week .
More than 100 people , most of them civilians , have been killed since Friday .
In Monday 's deadliest attack , a car bomb exploded in a south Baghdad market area , killing six pedestrians .
At least two other people were killed in a second attack in the capital .
To the north , U.S. officials say two suicide bombers in Mosul blew themselves up , killing a child and wounding 15 others .
Sunday , bombings killed more than 30 people , including 25 Kurds attending the funeral of a slain local Kurdish official in the northern town of Tall Afar .
DURING the Civil War a Patriot was passing through the State of Maryland with a pass from the President to join Grant 's army and see the fighting .
Stopping a day at Annapolis , he visited the shop of a well-known optician and ordered seven powerful telescopes , one for every day in the week .
In recognition of this munificent patronage of the State 's languishing industries , the Governor commissioned him a colonel .
A retired U.S. Army general and former director of the National Security Agency has called on President Bush to sign a war funding bill passed by Congress this week that would authorize the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq .
In the Democratic Party 's weekly radio address Saturday , former lieutenant general William Odom said he generally does not favor congressional involvement in foreign and military policy .
But he said Mr. Bush has allowed the United States to squander its influence , money and blood in the Iraq war .
Odom said the challenge now is not how to win in Iraq , but how to recover from the mistake of invading Iraq in the first place .
President Bush has promised to veto the funding bill , which requires the U.S. to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq by October 1 .
The International Olympic Committee has announced it will review its procedures for the Olympic torch relay after a series of protests marred the Beijing flame 's worldwide journey .
IOC president Jacques Rogge said Tuesday the tradition of lighting the Olympic flame in Ancient Olympia and starting the torch relay in Greece will continue .
But he said the IOC 's executive board could limit future torch relays to within the borders of the Olympic host nation .
Angry and sometimes violent protests of China 's human rights record took place as the flame traveled through San Francisco , London and Paris .
In his opening speech at the three-day IOC session on the eve of the Beijing Games , Rogge said that his organization respect protests and freedom of expression , but violence is against the Olympic spirit .
Israel says Syria has test-fired three Scud missiles - the first such tests since 2001 .
Israeli military officials said their air defense systems detected the missile launches from northern Syria last Friday .
They said one missile broke up over Turkey , showering debris on two towns .
Turkish officials say Syria has informed them that the incident was an accident that happened during a military exercise .
Turkish authorities say no injuries were reported .
There has been no public comment from Syria .
Israel 's military described the tests as an act of defiance toward the United States and the United Nations , which pushed Syria to withdraw its troops from Lebanon this year .
Israeli officials also expressed concern that the missiles could carry chemical weapons capable of hitting Israeli targets .
A leading international human rights group says Russia 's new law restricting non-governmental groups is repressive and it is asking the Group of Eight industrialized nations to make it a key issue on the agendas of future meetings .
Moscow takes over the rotating leadership of the G-8 , the world 's seven leading industrialized nation plus Russia , on January 1 and President Vladimir Putin is expected to sign the bill into law before the end of this year .
New York-based Human Rights Watch says the legislation is broad and ambiguous , giving Russian government offices an unprecedented level of discretion in regulating non-governmental organizations .
It notes that Russian leaders insist the limitations are necessary for Russia 's security .
However , the organization says enactment of the law will not only severely restrict NGOs , but will also undermine the rights of all Russians .
Spain says it will lift immigration restrictions for workers from the European Union 's new Eastern European member states .
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Thursday that beginning May 1 , the government will open the Spanish labor market to workers from Poland , the Czech Republic , Latvia , Lithuania , Estonia , Hungary , Slovakia and Slovenia .
Workers from the two other new EU members , Cyprus and Malta , already have free access to Spain .
The decision brings Spain into line with some EU countries such as Britain , Ireland and Sweden , which have no restrictions on workers from Eastern Europe .
Spain 's move follows an immigration amnesty begun last year that granted nearly 800,000 new residence permits and moved thousands of undocumented workers out of the country 's underground economy .
Fighting continues in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo , where a joint force of United Nations and Congolese troops is trying to subdue Ugandan rebels .
Reports of new clashes Monday follow a battle in North Kivu province Sunday .
The United Nations says at least 35 rebels were killed , along with three Congolese government troops and an Indian U.N. peacekeeper .
A U.N. spokesman , Major Hans-Jakob Reichenm , says about 3,500 Congolese troops and 600 U.N. peacekeepers are battling an estimated 1,000 Ugandan rebels .
U.N. and Congolese forces are trying to assert government control in North Kivu and other areas dominated by local militias and foreign rebels using eastern Congo as a base .
The offensives were launched after Congo 's constitutional referendum last week .
Partial results from the vote show the new constitution heading toward overwhelming approval .
The price of crude oil declined after the U.S. government reported an increase in U.S. inventories of oil and gasoline .
Wednesday 's report from the Department of Energy says crude oil reserves rose by 1.7 million barrels to nearly 347 million barrels last week .
Gasoline reserves rose more than two million barrels to 202.7 million .
The larger inventories may ease concerns that U.S. fuel supplies might fall short during June , July and August when many Americans drive long distances on vacation .
The price of crude oil for June delivery declined nearly $ 1 to $ 73.85 a barrel in New York trading .
Oil prices have surged 21 percent this year .
One factor is concern about the dispute about Iran 's nuclear program .
Iran is the world 's fourth-largest oil exporter .
A college professor and his wife in Florida have been accused of spying for Cuba for decades .
In an indictment made public Monday in Miami , prosecutors said 61 year-old Carlos Alvarez and his 55 year-old wife Elsa had been sending to Cuba information on U.S. government officials and anti-Castro exile groups .
Prosecutor Brian Frazier said Carlos began spying for Cuba in 1977 , and Elsa began in 1982 .
Frazier said the couple used short wave radio and encryption equipment to send messages to Cuba .
An agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation said there was no evidence they provided classified or military information to Cuba .
The couple was employed at Florida International University .
The judge in the case ordered them held without bail and scheduled another hearing for January 19 .
The outgoing president of Georgia 's Abkhazia region , Vladislav Ardzinba , has fired his chosen successor and warned of a possible civil war in the breakaway area .
Mr. Ardzinba removed Prime Minister Raul Khadjimba from his post Wednesday and replaced him with a former Russian emergency ministries official , Nodar Khashba .
He also blamed opposition candidate Sergei Bagapsh for the region 's current political problems that began after Sunday 's presidential elections .
Mr. Bagapsh has already claimed victory against Mr. Khadjimba .
Election officials say latest returns put Mr. Bagapsh in the lead .
Mr. Khadjimba wanted the election voided because of alleged fraud .
Electoral officials say the southern Gali district will hold a re-vote on October 17 because of voting problems .
The contest was the first open presidential election in Abkhazia since the area declared independence from Georgia in 1993 .
Georgian officials say the vote was illegal .
President Bush has congratulated the Congolese people for what he called " their deep desire to embrace democracy " - because of the country 's constitutional referendum .
A White House spokesman , in a statement , said the referendum represents an important step in the democratic process in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Polls closed Monday after a second day of voting on a new constitution designed to end years of war and chaos .
Officials say turnout was high for the referendum .
Final results are not expected for several days .
If approved , the constitution would pave the way for Congolese elections next year .
The DRC is struggling to emerge from decades of political instability and violence .
The country 's most recent conflict , which ended in 2003 , drew in armies from six neighboring states and left nearly four million people dead .
A new report shows consumer spending in the United States dropped for a record sixth consecutive month in December - another sign the economy is deteriorating .
The report from the Commerce Department says spending fell one percent in the month .
The drop is significant because consumer spending is the major force behind the U.S. economy .
Falling consumer demand has forced American companies to cut workers in an effort to save costs .
The rising wave of unemployment has put pressure on American households to spend less money .
The report also shows Americans are saving more money , as they brace for the possibility of further job cuts .
Indian families have begun to bury relatives killed by a series of bomb blasts in the western part of the country , as security forces patrol to avoid further violence .
Several funerals were held overnight in the city of Malegaon , as Muslims celebrated a religious festival called Shab-e-Barat .
Officials said at least 31 people were killed and 100 others were wounded in the attacks Friday near a burial ground , a mosque and the town square .
The head of India 's ruling Congress Party , Sonia Gandhi , arrived in the town to visit with the wounded and relatives of the dead .
Authorities imposed a curfew on Malegaon , amid concern that the blasts might spark clashes between the local Muslim and Hindu communities .
There have been no claims of responsibility for the attacks .
Russia says it again has presented to Iran a proposal for reprocessing uranium in Russia from Iran 's nuclear plants .
The Foreign Ministry , in a statement , said its embassy in Tehran Saturday presented Iranian authorities with a note saying that its offer for setting up a joint Russian-Iranian uranium enrichment facility remains valid .
Iran has turned down previous Russian suggestions , insisting it has the right to enrich uranium and produce nuclear fuel domestically despite international efforts to curb its nuclear program .
The United States and the European Union have expressed grave concerns that Tehran will use its nuclear program as a cover for developing atomic weapons .
Under a deal signed earlier this year , Moscow agreed to supply enriched uranium fuel for Iran 's Bushehr reactor .
But it also demanded the return of spent fuel , to prevent Tehran from reprocessing it into bomb-grade material .
Iraq 's neighbors have called on all Iraqis to vote in the January 30 polls , saying they must determine their future through democratic means .
The joint statement was issued at the end of a day-long meeting Thursday in the Jordanian capital Amman .
It tacitly encouraged Iraq 's minority Sunni Muslims to vote , saying " all segments " of the Iraqi people must go to the polls .
Some Sunni groups have urged a boycott in the face of escalating violence .
Iraq 's neighbors also reaffirmed their respect for Iraq 's sovereignty and territorial integrity , and pledged not to interfere in Iraq 's internal affairs .
When the participants convened earlier , Jordan 's foreign minister said the election is a " golden opportunity " for Iraqis to get their country on the right track .
A top Russian prosecutor says he will not open a criminal investigation against security forces involved in last year 's deadly hostage crisis at a school in the southern city of Beslan .
Deputy Prosecutor General Vladimir Kolesnikov Thursday rejected arguments made by relatives of the victims .
Relatives blamed security forces for using flame-throwers and starting a fire that caused the roof to collapse as they moved on the school , seized by Chechen militants .
They said the rescue attempt was chaotic and caused many of the 331 deaths , most of them children .
Children and teachers were held for three days as hostage takers demanded Russian forces leave Chechnya .
Human Rights Watch is urging the United States to use its Security Council presidency to create a new U.N. force in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
The New York-based group says such a mission should have a strong mandate to protect civilians .
The rights group says the African Union troops now in Darfur have acted with great resolve and courage , but lack manpower and resources .
It says the deteriorating situation in Darfur demands a major new international effort to save lives there .
Human Rights Watch says the United States should use its presidency of the Security Council in February to jump-start this effort .
Violence against civilians in Darfur has surged in the last three months .
Human Rights Watch blames militias sponsored by Sudan 's government .
Hurricane Katrina has battered the southern part of the U.S. state of Florida with high winds and heavy rain , leaving four people dead as it crossed the state to move out over the Gulf of Mexico .
Forecasters say Katrina is now likely to get stronger and perhaps make a second landfall in the Florida Panhandle early next week as a major hurricane .
The 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season came ashore Thursday between Hallandale Beach and North Miami Beach , packing 130 kilometer-per-hour winds .
It knocked down trees , flooded streets and left more than one million people without power .
The U.S. Coast Guard is searching for a family of five who went out boating Thursday morning and never reached their destination Cape Coral on Florida 's southwest coast .
At least one person was killed in the Somali capital of Mogadishu Monday when unidentified attackers threw grenades at Ethiopian troops searching for weapons and insurgents .
Several other explosions were also heard in the city .
Government and Ethiopian soldiers began the house-to-house search on Sunday in an effort to reduce attacks by Islamist insurgents .
Dozens of people are reported to have been detained .
Earlier Monday , soldiers searched the Horn-Afrik radio station in the middle of a news broadcast , but they did not interrupt any of the programs .
Last year the Islamic Courts Union took control of Mogadishu until troops supporting an interim government backed by Ethiopian forces kicked them out .
The chaos in Somalia has been going on for 16 years .
The violence started in 1991 when warlords overthrew dictator Mohammed Siad Barre .
The United Nations helped form a government in 2004 , but it has not been able to restore peace .
Monaco , bordering France on the Mediterranean coast , is a popular resort , attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate .
The principality also is a major banking center and has successfully sought to diversify into services and small , high-value-added , nonpolluting industries .
The state has no income tax and low business taxes and thrives as a tax haven both for individuals who have established residence and for foreign companies that have set up businesses and offices .
Monaco , however , is not a tax-free shelter ; it charges nearly 20 % value-added tax , collects stamp duties , and companies face a 33 % tax on profits unless they can show that three-quarters of profits are generated within the principality .
Monaco was formally removed from the OECD 's " grey list " of uncooperative tax jurisdictions in late 2009 , but continues to face international pressure to abandon its banking secrecy laws and help combat tax evasion .
The state retains monopolies in a number of sectors , including tobacco , the telephone network , and the postal service .
Living standards are high , roughly comparable to those in prosperous French metropolitan areas .
British police have released pictures of the four London suicide bombers in the hope of gathering new information about their final movements before the attacks .
British media Sunday have been showing surveillance camera footage of the four bombers with backpacks as they enter a train station ( Luton ) north of London the morning of the attacks .
Police believe the men rode the train to London ( King 's Cross station ) , then split up to carry out the bombings on three subway trains and one bus .
Authorities on Saturday confirmed the identities of all four bombers as investigators in Britain , Egypt and Pakistan pursued leads in the case .
Meanwhile , British Prime Minister Tony Blair called on the world to confront what he called the " evil ideology " of Islamic extremism .
The death toll from the terrorist attacks stands at 55 , and is expected to rise .
Hundreds of Afghans have marched through the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif to protest the killing of a candidate in the country 's recent legislative elections .
The protesters were demanding the arrest and trial of those responsible .
National Assembly candidate Mohammad Ashraf Ramazan and his bodyguard were gunned down last week by unidentified attackers .
Although the Taleban claimed responsibility for the killings , the protesters blamed the local administration .
Mr. Ramazan was the first candidate killed since the September 18 parliamentary polls .
Meanwhile , the chairman of the joint U.N.-Afghan election body says ballot boxes from about four percent of 26,000 polling stations were being checked for reported irregularities .
But Peter Erben said the cases of fraud are localized rather than widespread , and will not affect the overall integrity of the landmark vote .
Close ties to France since independence in 1960 , the development of cocoa production for export , and foreign investment made Cote d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the West African states , but did not protect it from political turmoil .
In December 1999 , a military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire 's history - overthrew the government .
Junta leader Robert GUEI blatantly rigged elections held in late 2000 and declared himself the winner .
Popular protest forced him to step aside and brought Laurent GBAGBO into power .
Ivorian dissidents and disaffected members of the military launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002 .
Rebel forces claimed the northern half of the country , and in January 2003 were granted ministerial positions in a unity government under the auspices of the Linas-Marcoussis Peace Accord .
President GBAGBO and rebel forces resumed implementation of the peace accord in December 2003 after a three-month stalemate , but issues that sparked the civil war , such as land reform and grounds for citizenship , remained unresolved .
In March 2007 President GBAGBO and former New Force rebel leader Guillaume SORO signed the Ouagadougou Political Agreement .
As a result of the agreement , SORO joined GBAGBO 's government as Prime Minister and the two agreed to reunite the country by dismantling the zone of confidence separating North from South , integrate rebel forces into the national armed forces , and hold elections .
Disarmament , demobilization , and reintegration of rebel forces have been problematic as rebels seek to enter the armed forces .
Citizen identification and voter registration pose election difficulties , and balloting planned for November 2009 was postponed to 2010 .
On 28 November 2010 , Alassane Dramane OUATTARA won the presidential election , defeating then President Laurent GBAGBO .
GBAGBO refused to hand over power , resulting in a 6-month stand-off .
In April 2011 , after widespread fighting , GBAGBO was formally forced from office by OUATTARA supporters with the support of UN and French forces .
Several thousand UN troops and several hundred French remain in Cote d'Ivoire to support the transition process .
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission [ CPSC ] has launched a new program to screen toys and other imports for potential safety hazards .
Working with U.S. Customs agents , the new import surveillance program plans to test selected products at various ports in the United States to make sure the products are safe before they enter the U.S. market .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
The White House has released new details of President Bush 's planned May trip commemorating the end of World War II in Europe with stops in Russia and three other countries .
A White House statement released Thursday , said President Bush will meet the presidents of Latvia , Estonia and Lithuania in Riga , Latvia May 6 .
In the Netherlands President Bush is is expected to take part in commemorations of the end of World War II in Europe on May 8 .
He will then travel to Russia , which commemorates the end of the war on May 9 , and meet President Vladimir Putin .
Mr. Bush will conclude his visit in Tbilisi , Georgia , where the White House says he plans to " underscore his support for democracy . "
Sub-freezing temperatures have killed scores of people throughout eastern and central Europe in the past week , as natural gas shortages compounded the bitter chill in several countries .
Ukraine 's health ministry Thursday said the Arctic cold has claimed at least 181 lives and led to more than 2000 hospitalizations since Saturday .
Weather-related deaths also have been reported in Russia , Croatia , Romania , Bulgaria , Serbia , Poland and the Baltic countries among others .
The situation remains critical in Georgia , where gas shortages and power outages compounded the bitter cold .
In a statement Thursday , Russian oil giant Gazprom accused Ukraine of diverting gas meant for the rest of Europe .
When faced with similar allegations earlier this week , Ukraine said it was meeting all transit requirements .
In hopeful news , the icy temperatures that have gripped much of Eastern Europe for the past week have begun to ease up Thursday .
President Bush addressed the nation Tuesday evening in a major speech outlining his military and political strategy for winning the conflict in Iraq .
His speech marks the one-year anniversary of U.S. transfer of sovereignty to Iraq .
It comes as a new poll Washington Post-ABC News released shows a majority of Americans ( 56 percent ) disapprove of Mr. Bush 's handling of the war .
A clear majority , however , say they are willing to see U.S. forces remain in Iraq for an extended time until the country is stabilized .
Before his speech at a large military base in North Carolina , Mr. Bush is set to meet privately with some of the family members of the more than 1,700 U.S. service members who have died since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 .
Russia 's Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says the Russian military plans to deploy a new intercontinental ballistic missile system .
A successful test launch of the system was conducted Friday .
Mr. Ivanov said the military expects to begin buying the new mobile Topol-M missiles in 2005 , and to put them in service by January , 2006 .
Mr. Ivanov said this latest test was the final one for the new weapon , which he said was easier to fire and had greater accuracy and range than the current model .
Mr. Ivanov added that Russia will keep its nuclear capability equal to that of the United States and other nuclear powers in technological sophistication , but not in the actual numbers of weapons .
Rights group Amnesty International has accused China and Russia of breaching a United Nations arms embargo by letting weapons into Sudan that were then used in the Darfur region .
An Amnesty report published Tuesday expresses dismay that two permanent members of the U.N. Security Council were allowing weapons to flow into Sudan .
Russia and China have dismissed the allegation .
Amnesty International urged the U.N. to strengthen the existing arms embargo on Darfur .
The Amnesty report also accuses the Sudanese air force of operating airplanes and helicopters painted white to resemble U.N. aircraft .
A U.N. report that was leaked to the media last month found that Sudan was using disguised airplanes to carry out bombing raids in Darfur .
Sudan rejected the charge .
More than 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur since rebels began an uprising against Sudan 's central government in early 2003 .
Venezuela has freed 11 Colombian soldiers who had been detained after entering Venezuelan territory without authorization .
Colombia 's government says the soldiers were turned over to consular officers Thursday at a military base in Venezuela 's Apure state .
The soldiers were taken into custody Sunday while entering Venezuela in a taxi .
Colombia says the soldiers were using Venezuelan territory as a safe travel corridor to avoid leftist rebels on the Colombian side of the 2,200-kilometer border .
Colombia 's ambassador to Venezuela , Enrique Vargas Ramirez , thanked Caracas for the soldiers ' release , saying it showed the advances that the two governments have made in security efforts .
The two countries recently resolved a dispute sparked by Bogota 's admission it paid bounty hunters to seize a Colombian rebel in Caracas and return him to Colombia .
The United States has acted against two Iranian companies suspected of helping to proliferate weapons of mass destruction through involvement in Iran 's nuclear program .
The U.S. Treasury Department Wednesday ordered American banks to freeze any accounts or other financial assets in the United States belonging to the Novin Energy company and Mesbah Energy company .
Officials also are prohibiting Americans from doing business with the two companies .
The Treasury Department said the Novin Energy company has transferred millions of dollars on behalf of Iran 's atomic energy agency to entities linked to the country 's nuclear program .
The department said the Mesbah Energy company is a state-owned entity that has been used to obtain products for Iran 's heavy water project .
A heavy water reactor has the potential to produce high-quality plutonium , a key component for a nuclear weapon .
Pro-democracy supporters protested across Egypt Wednesday to demand political reforms and an end to President Hosni Mubarak 's decades-long rule .
Protesters are demanding multi-party elections and restrictions on the number of terms any candidate can run .
Mr. Mubarak , who has already served four terms , said in an interview Tuesday that he has not yet decided whether to run in elections expected in September .
Witnesses and protest organizers in Cairo , Suez and several other towns say police detained dozens of demonstrators carrying the banner of the Kifaya Movement .
In March , Mr. Mubarak 's 41-year-old son , Gamal , ruled out running for the presidency , and denied his father ordered multi-party amendments to the constitution so the son could run .
Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz says progress in peace talks with India hinges on progress in resolving the Kashmir dispute .
Mr. Aziz spoke to reporters after talks with his Indian counterpart , Manmohan Singh , in New Delhi Wednesday .
Mr. Aziz said Pakistan believes the " core issue of Kashmir " needs to be addressed , and progress on other issues will be made in tandem .
New Delhi says further improvements in relations between the two nuclear-armed neighbors should not be held hostage to their decades-old dispute over Kashmir .
Mr. Aziz , who arrived in New Delhi Tuesday , has had separate meetings with Indian Foreign Minister Natwar Singh and Muslim separatist leaders of Indian Kashmir .
The Pakistani prime minister is in India as part of a South Asia tour as the outgoing chairman of a regional grouping - the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation , or SAARC .
A suicide bomber disguised as a soldier has blown himself up in front of police headquarters in Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province , killing himself and four policemen .
A police chief in Helmand says the bomber dressed in an Afghan army uniform detonated his explosives after police stopped him as he tried to enter the station in Lashkar Gah , the province capital .
At least one other policeman was injured .
NATO forces have launched a major offensive in Helmand , Afghanistan 's top opium producing region where Taleban militants have staged attacks .
NATO and Afghan forces say they have killed dozens of Taleban fighters in recent days .
In other news , U.S.-led coalition forces and Afghan troops arrested four men and seized weapons in a raid on a compound in Jalalabad in the eastern province of Nangarhar .
Afghan officials say a suicide bombing outside a northern police station has killed one civilian and wounded at least 27 others .
No one claimed responsibility for the attack that took place Thursday in the town of Faizabad , in northern Badakshan province .
Separately , Afghan officials say armed men kidnapped two Germans and at least two of their Afghan colleagues Wednesday in central Afghanistan .
It is unclear who was behind the abductions .
Authorities in Afghanistan say they are investigating .
In late June , a German national and his Afghan translator were abducted in southern Afghanistan .
They were freed a week later .
Australia and Indonesia have agreed to negotiate a new security pact to replace one that was scrapped in 1999 .
The proposed treaty will cover a wide area including defense , police cooperation , counter-terrorism , and the territorial integrity of the two countries .
Foreign ministers Hassan Wirajuda of Indonesia and Alexander Downer of Australia announced the proposal Friday at the end of a bilateral ministerial forum in Canberra .
Mr. Downer says the treaty could be concluded within months .
The two countries forged a treaty in 1995 , but Indonesia abandoned it in 1999 in retaliation for Australia leading a U.N. peacekeeping force into what was then the Indonesian province of East Timor following violence surrounding its vote for independence .
Philippine military soldiers have clashed with Islamic extremists Tuesday , killing at least one and wounding a senior leader of the al-Qaida-linked Abu Sayyaf group .
Military officials say they believe that Abu Solaiman , a wanted Abu Sayyaf leader , was injured during the fighting .
Solaiman is wanted by the United States for his alleged role in kidnappings and terror attacks .
The U.S. government is offering a $ 5 million reward for his capture .
Army soldiers clashed with 60 Abu Sayyaf extremists in a mountainous town on the southwestern Philippine island of Jolo .
Officials say they found bomb-making materials at the camp after members of the group fled .
An explosion during a parade of the militant Palestinian group Hamas has killed 15 people and wounded 80 others , including children , in the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas 's Fatah faction blamed Hamas for the casualties for holding a military parade in the densely populated Jebaliya refugee camp .
Witnesses say a truck carrying homemade weapons accidentally exploded .
But Hamas blamed Israel , saying a drone flying over the area fired a missile at the vehicle .
Israel quickly denied any involvement .
Earlier Friday , an Israeli raid in the West Bank town of Tulkarem turned violent and three Islamic Jihad members were killed .
Islamic Jihad retaliated , firing several rockets into Israel that did not cause casualties or damage .
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat condemned the Israeli raid and urged calm on all sides .
Police in Argentina have arrested at least 87 people after a mob of angry commuters rioted at a train station on the outskirts of Buenos Aires .
Commuters were angered Tuesday morning when service was interrupted because of technical problems .
During some five hours of violence , the rioters set fire to at least 15 rail cars and parts of the train station .
They also overturned at least one police car .
Riot police fired rubber bullets to break up the crowds .
At least 13 people , including policemen , were injured .
The violence comes just days before the start of the 34-nation Summit of the Americas , to take place at Mar del Plata , some 370 kilometers south of Buenos Aires .
Bulgaria 's center-left government has survived a no-confidence vote prompted by a suspension of European Union subsidies .
All 150 representatives of the three-party ruling coalition voted against the motion , which won the backing of 84 deputies .
The European Commission , last week , suspended nearly $ 800 million in aid to the government .
EU officials said Bulgaria 's push against corruption and criminal gangs is not producing needed results .
Prime Minister Stanishev acknowledged what he called " serious problems " in many Bulgarian institutions .
But he also cited " positive steps " in recent months , including new laws on conflict of interest .
The no-confidence motion was the sixth against Mr. Stanishev , since he took office in 2005 .
Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military and their families located in Akrotiri .
All food and manufactured goods must be imported .
Populated for centuries by aboriginal peoples , the island was claimed by the Spanish Crown in 1493 following COLUMBUS ' second voyage to the Americas .
In 1898 , after 400 years of colonial rule that saw the indigenous population nearly exterminated and African slave labor introduced , Puerto Rico was ceded to the US as a result of the Spanish-American War .
Puerto Ricans were granted US citizenship in 1917 .
Popularly-elected governors have served since 1948 .
In 1952 , a constitution was enacted providing for internal self government .
In plebiscites held in 1967 , 1993 , and 1998 , voters chose not to alter the existing political status .
President Bush has extended his greetings to Muslims observing Ramadan in America and around the world .
In a White House statement released Friday , Mr. Bush said Ramadan is the holiest time of the Muslim year and an important holiday .
He said Ramadan observes the delivery of God 's word , in the form of the Qur'an , to the prophet Muhammad .
The president also said the holiday is an opportunity to gather with friends and family and to show thanks for God 's blessings through works of charity .
Mr. Bush said Ramadan and the upcoming holiday seasons are good times to remember common values that bind all people together .
He added that Muslim Americans enrich U.S. society .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has rejected the idea of holding talks with Iran and Syria about reducing violence in Iraq .
Rice told the Washington Post newspaper she opposes the bipartisan Iraq Study Group 's recommendation to engage the two countries .
She said she will not allow Syria to interfere in Lebanon or let Iran obtain a nuclear weapon as a price for their help in bringing peace to Iraq .
The secretary said that if the two countries had an interest in stabilizing Iraq they would do it anyway .
President Bush is to announce his decision on a new strategy for Iraq in early January .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says he favors talks with the United States .
He told an Italian newspaper , La Repubblica , that Washington should hold talks with his country and Iran on stabilizing the Middle East .
A strong winter storm has caused trouble for travelers , downed power lines to thousands of homes and caused deadly accidents in the midwestern United States .
In Dallas , Texas , icy conditions on Sunday prompted the cancellation of about 300 airline flights .
The storm also prompted the governors of Missouri and Oklahoma to declare a state of emergency .
Police in Oklahoma say icy roads were to blame for a head-on crash between a minivan and a tractor trailer truck that killed seven occupants of the van .
The seven were Mexican nationals .
Five other occupants of the van were taken to the hospital .
Investigators said the minivan was hit after it skidded across the median of the divided highway Sunday morning about 180 kilometers west of Oklahoma City .
The head of U.S. homeland security , Michael Chertoff , says officials remain vigilant for terrorist attacks after a plot to blow up airliners was uncovered last week .
Chertoff told Fox News Sunday U.S. officials are concerned that some people involved in the alleged plot may still be at large .
He says there also is concern that other groups may try to carry out attacks because they think U.S. officials are distracted by the situation .
Chertoff added there is no evidence that planning or operational activities took place in the United States .
British authorities detained 23 people last week .
U.S. officials raised the security alert level on flights from Britain to the United States after the plot was uncovered .
Chertoff says officials planned to announce new security measures for flights today .
The head of the U.S. central bank is warning Americans not to assume that recent soaring home values will continue forever .
On Friday , Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told economists gathered at a resort in Wyoming that increased buying power fueled by higher home prices could disappear if investors turn cautious .
Huge numbers of U.S. homeowners have taken out loans against the increased value of their homes to pay for renovations and other purchases , fueling much of the recent growth in the economy .
Mr. Greenspan also warned that growing trade protectionism and bloated government budget deficits will make it more difficult for the U.S. economy to weather the kind of problems that would follow an abrupt fall in asset prices or other economic shocks .
Somaliland 's interior minister has ordered foreign Islamic clerics and other non-natives to leave the breakaway region immediately , following the arrest of several alleged al-Qaida operatives .
Ismail Osman Aden says his order was prompted by security concerns .
Police detained at least one al-Qaida suspect in an overnight raid in the region 's capital , Hargeisa , bringing to at least seven the number arrested over the previous two days .
Mr. Aden says the suspects had traveled from the Somali capital , Mogadishu , and were planning attacks against senior officials and foreign workers in an effort to disrupt next week 's elections in Somaliland .
The breakaway region , which is not internationally recognized , split from Somalia after the country descended into anarchy following the overthrow of Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
The United States and other western intelligence agencies see Somalia as a potential safe haven for terrorists .
An explosion at the home of a Hezbollah official in a small Lebanese village has killed at least two people .
Officials say the blast happened Monday evening in Tayr Filsi , a village near the coastal city of Tyre .
Authorities are investigating the cause of the explosion and have not said whether the Hezbollah official was among the casualties .
In July , an explosion at a suspected Hezbollah arms depot in southern Lebanon near the Israeli border raised concerns about the group 's weapons caches .
The militant Hezbollah movement fought a 34-day war with Israel in 2006 that killed about 1,200 people in Lebanon and 160 in Israel .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert says countries without diplomatic relations with Israel should not participate in the U.N. peacekeeping force for Lebanon .
Those countries include Bangladesh , Indonesia , and Malaysia - three Muslim nations that have already offered to send troops .
Meanwhile , Mr. Olmert says Italy may be ready to take a significant role in the U.N. peacekeeping force .
He spoke with Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi by telephone Sunday .
Italy has already approved plans to send as many as 3,000 troops to Lebanon .
But it is unclear if it will lead the force .
The United Nations plans to deploy up to 15,000 soldiers to boost a peacekeeping force already in southern Lebanon .
Lebanon has also started deploying the first of 15,000 troops it plans to send to the area .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko says his country must strengthen its military defenses and step up efforts to gain membership in the NATO military alliance .
Mr. Yushchenko spoke Sunday in Kyiv , in an address marking Ukraine 's 17th anniversary of independence from the former Soviet Union .
He spoke as Russia , which strenuously opposes the NATO aspirations of both Ukraine and Georgia , continued its occupation of Georgian territory .
Mr. Yushchenko condemned what he called the " aggression " of Russian forces in Georgia , while pledging that Ukraine will not become Moscow 's next target .
The Yushchenko address was followed by a rare parade of Ukraine military hardware , including tanks , armored personnel carriers and missile launchers .
Military jets flew overhead in formation .
In Moscow , Russian President Dmitri Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin marked the Ukrainian anniversary with statements calling for closer bilateral relations .
The Israeli newspaper Haaretz says the number of Jewish settlers in the West Bank has topped 300,000 .
In a report Monday , Haaretz said as of June 30 , there were 304,569 settlers living in the Palestinian territory , an increase of 2.3 percent since January .
The paper said the figures came from an Israeli government report .
The settlement issue is one of the main obstacles in the stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace process .
The administration of U.S. President Barack Obama has repeatedly called on Israel to halt all settlement activity as part of efforts to revive the peace process .
Three top U.S. officials , U.S. special envoy to the Middle East George Mitchell , Defense Secretary Robert Gates and National Security Advisor James Jones , are holding talks in Israel this week and are pushing for a settlement freeze .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has so far refused the demand , creating tensions with Washington .
Saudi Arabian security forces have arrested 17 suspected militants with ties to al-Qaida .
An interior ministry statement carried Saturday by Saudi media said the group was arrested during simultaneous early morning raids of 12 homes in the capital , Riyadh , and two nearby districts , Kharj and Majmaah .
All of the suspected militants are Saudi nationals .
In addition to the arrests , security forces seized weapons , ammunition , electronic equipment and assorted militant literature and documents .
The oil-rich kingdom has been battling supporters and sympathizers of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden for the last two years .
It has been nearly a year since the last terror attack on Saudi soil .
Since then , security forces have made significant progress , arresting and killing dozens of suspected militants .
A strong , 7.5 magnitude earthquake has struck near India 's Nicobar Islands , initially triggering a tsunami watch for all areas of the Indian Ocean .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injury , and the tsunami warning was eventually lifted .
The quake , which struck early Sunday , was centered 150 kilometers west of Mohean on the Nicobar Islands at a depth of 35 kilometers .
The Nicobar Islands make up a small chain that runs across the Andaman Sea near southern Thailand .
Elsewhere on the globe , earthquakes took place in Japan and California Sunday , but no injuries or building damage were reported in either location .
A 6.1 magnitude quake jolted northern Japan , while a 4.4 earthquake was felt in the southwestern U.S. city of San Diego .
A former bodyguard for Osama bin Laden says he is boycotting legal proceedings against him at the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba .
Yemeni national Ali Hamza Ahmad al-Bahlul is accused of conspiracy to commit terrorism .
He admitted during a previous hearing that he was a member of bin Laden 's al Qaida .
Al-Bahlul announced he was boycotting Wednesday 's hearing because he is not being allowed to defend himself .
Also Wednesday , a separate panel at the Guantanamo tribunal will hear the case of a Canadian-born teenager accused of killing a U.S. military medic with a hand grenade in Afghanistan four years ago .
Meanwhile , a former Guantanamo Bay prisoner who was handed over to France a year-and-a-half ago , Nizar Sassi , has been released from custody in Paris .
A group of retired U.S. military officers is expressing " deep concern " about President Bush 's nominee to lead the U.S. Justice Department .
The officers want Attorney General nominee Alberto Gonzales to explain his views on torture , and his role in crafting Bush administration policy on the treatment of terror suspects .
As the White House legal counsel , Mr. Gonzales wrote a January 2002 memo advising Mr. Bush that prisoner of war protections in the Geneva Convention were " rendered obsolete " by the U.S.-led war on terror .
He later approved a separate Justice Department memo suggesting some legal defenses U.S. officials could use to defend themselves against prosecution for torture .
The group of officers includes retired Army General John Shalikashvili , who was chairman of the military 's Joint Chiefs of Staff .
Mr. Gonzales faces a Senate confirmation hearing on Thursday .
Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 ( the others are Ecuador and Venezuela ) .
A four-decade long conflict between government forces and anti-government insurgent groups , principally the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) heavily funded by the drug trade , escalated during the 1990s .
The insurgents lack the military or popular support necessary to overthrow the government , and violence has been decreasing since about 2002 .
However , insurgents continue attacks against civilians and large areas of the countryside are under guerrilla influence or are contested by security forces .
More than 31,000 former paramilitaries had demobilized by the end of 2006 and the United Self Defense Forces of Colombia ( AUC ) as a formal organization had ceased to function .
In the wake of the paramilitary demobilization , emerging criminal groups arose , whose members include some former paramilitaries .
The Colombian Government has stepped up efforts to reassert government control throughout the country , and now has a presence in every one of its administrative departments .
However , neighboring countries worry about the violence spilling over their borders .
In January 2011 , Colombia assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
A presidential commission says U.S. intelligence agencies were completely wrong in most of their pre-war judgments about Iraq 's weapons of mass destruction .
The commission report being released Thursday makes scores of recommendations for improving the U.S. intelligence community 's performance .
Proposals include creation of a separate national counter-proliferation center to fight the spread of chemical , nuclear , and biological weapons .
The report blames the failures in Iraq on an inability to collect good information , errors in analysis , and a failure to make clear how much of that analysis was based on assumptions rather than evidence .
It also says U.S. intelligence still knows " disturbingly little " about the nuclear programs of what it calls the world 's most dangerous countries .
President Bush is due to make a statement on the report after meeting with the commission today .
Turkish leaders , concerned that new political power for Iraqi Kurds could lead to their control of the oil-rich province of Kirkuk , have received reassurance from a visiting U.S. official that Kirkuk is a matter for all Iraqis to decide .
The Pentagon 's Douglas Feith told Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul Monday the United States is committed to preserving Iraq 's territorial integrity .
The defense policy official said the issue of Kirkuk is not a matter for one group to decide , but for the Iraqi people in general .
Turkey is worried that Kurds in northern Iraq might use their increased influence to press for independence , and that could inspire Kurdish separatists living in southeastern Turkey .
On Monday , Mr. Gul said if ethnic unrest were to erupt in Kirkuk , the Turkish public would pressure the government to respond .
Some infomation for this report provided by AP and AFP .
A senior Iranian cleric says Iran 's suspension of its nuclear program is temporary .
Former Iranian President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani told worshippers during prayers Friday , Iran could resume enriching uranium within six months .
Mr. Rafsanjani , the head of the Expediency Council , Iran 's final arbiter on legislation , said Iran has the right to enrich uranium at low levels to fuel nuclear power stations .
Earlier this week , the International Atomic Energy Agency spared Iran the fate of being referred to the United Nations Security Council for possible sanctions after Tehran agreed to suspend its nuclear program .
The United States has accused Iran of secretly seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
A Pakistani immigrant accused of plotting to bomb a subway station in New York City took the stand in his own defense Monday .
Shahawar Matin Siraj told a Brooklyn , New York courtroom that he planned the attack only after a police informer stoked his anger against the United States .
The 23-year-old defendant said he came up with the plot to bomb the busy Herald Square subway station in 2004 to impress the informer , Osama Eldawoody .
Siraj says he viewed Eldawoody as a brother figure , and maintains Eldawoody was the leader of the bombing conspiracy .
The defendant said he backed out of the plot when he realized civilians could be hurt .
Manhattan 's Herald Square is a central shopping district , and includes department store Macy 's famed flagship store .
A new constitution took effect in Kyrgyzstan Friday , as officials announced the final results from the country 's referendum .
Central Election Commission official Akylbek Sariyev said over 90 percent of voters on Sunday backed the new charter , which establishes Kyrgyzstan as a parliamentary republic .
Sariyev said interim leader Roza Otunbayeva was officially approved as interim president until the end of 2011 .
She is expected to be sworn in during an inauguration ceremony on Saturday and parliamentary elections are set for October 10 .
Kyrgyzstan 's interim government has struggled to impose order since it took power following the April 7 deadly uprising that ousted President Kurmanbek Bakiyev .
An estimated 2,000 people were killed during ethnic clashes between Kyrgyz and Uzbeks that erupted in June in the southern cities of Osh and Jalalabad .
Officials in Afghanistan say U.S. and Afghan troops have killed eight suspected Taleban fighters and captured 16 others in a firefight in a mountain area south of the capital .
An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman said Tuesday the fighting occurred in the Dai Chopan district of southern Zabul province .
Independent confirmation of the details of the fighting in the remote area was not immediately available .
The U.S. military had no immediate comment .
Guerrilla activity in Afghanistan has increased after a winter lull , but activity is down compared to past years .
U.S.-led forces overthrew the Taleban after they refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden , the architect of the September 11 attacks on U.S. cities .
President Bush has welcomed congressional approval of a plan to allow the United States to ship civilian nuclear fuel and technology to India .
In a statement issued Saturday , the president said the deal will help both nations meet their energy needs without increasing air pollution and greenhouse gases .
He said it also promotes clean development and non-proliferation .
U.S. lawmakers voted overnight Saturday to approve the measure , which requires India to open its civilian nuclear facilities to international inspection .
India 's government welcomed the agreement .
But the foreign ministry expressed concern about terms of the U.S. law that call on India to oppose Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
Ministry officials said India 's foreign policy will be determined only by national interests .
A member of an Islamic terrorist group in the U.S. has been sentenced to 12.5 years in prison for plotting attacks against targets in Los Angeles , California .
Gregory Patterson pleaded guilty to conspiracy to wage war against the United States and possession of a firearm .
The 24-year-old was sentenced Monday by a U.S. District Court .
Patterson was among four men charged in connection with the plot .
Targets included the Los Angeles International Airport , U.S. military recruiting centers , and the Israeli Consulate .
Last month , co-conspirator Levar Washington was sentenced to 22 years imprisonment for conspiracy and weapons charges .
The men belonged to Jam'iyyat Ul-Islam Is-Saheeh , a local terrorist cell founded by Kevin James in 1997 while he was in prison .
James is expected to be sentenced early next year .
A fourth co-conspirator , Hammad Samana , was declared unfit to stand trial and is in a psychiatric facility .
Arabic language al-Jazeera television has broadcast what it says is a new videotape of kidnapped U.S. journalist Jill Carroll pleading for freedom for female Iraqi prisoners .
The tape is time-stamped January 28 , showing Carroll dressed in traditional Islamic headscarf and crying .
Al Jazeera did not broadcast any sound with the tape Monday .
But a newscaster said Carroll appealed to the U.S. military in Iraq to free all women prisoners .
This was the main demand of her captors who threatened to kill her if it was not met .
Carroll is a journalist for the U.S. based Christian Science Monitor newspaper .
She was kidnapped January 7 .
The U.S. military freed five female prisoners in Iraq last week , but said their release was not connected to the Carroll case .
Top-seeded Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain is the winner of the Canberra International tennis tournament in Australia .
She overcame South Korea 's Cho Yoon-jeong in three sets on Friday , 6-4 , 0-6 , 6-4 .
Medina Garrigues raced to a 5-1 lead in the first set before Cho won the next three games .
The 23-year-old Spaniard served out the set to take it 6-4 .
Cho won the next eight games and led 2-0 in the deciding third set before Medina Garrigues rallied and claimed six of the next eight games to win her fifth WTA title .
This was Cho 's third appearance in a WTA tour final , but her first since 2003 when she had jaw surgery .
She has a difficult opponent in her opening round match at next week 's Australian Open in Melbourne , as she has to face world number two Kim Clijsters of Belgium .
Officials for the 2012 London Olympics have announced the costs and confirmed the builders for the Olympic Stadium and aquatic center .
The Olympic Delivery Authority ( ODA ) said Tuesday the 80,000 - seat Olympic Stadium will cost about $ 976 million and will be built by a consortium including HOK Sport , Buro Happold and Robert Alpine .
The price includes the cost of converting the stadium to a 25,000 seat multiple-use venue after the Olympics .
Meanwhile , the Aquatics Center and land bridge that will be a main gateway into the Olympic Park will cost some $ 476 million .
The venue , which will be built by Balfour Beatty , will seat 2,500 people when it is reconfigured after the Games .
A PUBLIC Treasury , feeling Two Arms lifting out its contents , exclaimed :
" Mr. Shareman , I move for a division . "
" You seem to know something about parliamentary forms of speech , " said the Two Arms .
" Yes , " replied the Public Treasury , " I am familiar with the hauls of legislation . "
China and Cuba have signed 16 agreements as Chinese President Hu Jintao continues his visit to Havana .
Mr. Hu and his Cuban counterpart , Fidel Castro , witnessed the signings late Monday in the Cuban capital , Havana .
The accords include deals to build a nickel production plant in Cuba and setting up a joint venture to explore untapped Cuban nickel deposits .
In addition , China agreed to a 10-year extension for repayment of loans given to Cuba in the 1990s .
Cuban state-run media say Mr. Hu 's visit is a sign of the high priority both countries give to the development of their bilateral relations .
Cuba has suffered economically since the collapse of its former backer , the Soviet Union , more than a decade ago .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe says the country 's domestic intelligence agency will no longer be in charge of intercepting communications , after it came under investigation for an illegal wiretapping scandal .
Mr. Uribe announced Thursday that all wiretaps will now be conducted by the national police , and will require judicial authorization .
The domestic intelligence agency , known as DAS ( the Department of Administrative Security ) is under federal investigation over charges that its agents illegally wiretapped politicians , journalists and judges .
The agency is accused of passing intercepted information to drug traffickers and other illegal armed groups .
The accusations were first made by the Colombian news magazine " Semana . "
DAS has been accused of wrongful spying in the past .
Last year , the head of the agency , Maria del Pilar Hurtado , resigned after it was revealed that agents were ordered to spy on opposition leaders .
Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Amhed says he will hold a national reconciliation conference in the coming weeks to help the country return to peace .
Speaking during a Thursday visit to London , Mr. Yusuf said the conference will be open to moderate Islamists .
He said the only conditions for taking part in the talks are to lay down weapons , renounce violence and be committed to a peaceful Somalia .
Ethiopian and Somali government troops drove Islamist forces from the capital , Mogadishu , late last year .
Since then , insurgents have mounted frequent attacks , which have killed many people , mainly civilians .
At least two mortar rounds landed near Mogadishu 's international airport Thursday , but no injuries were reported .
And officials say unknown gunmen shot to death two local government officials in the capital late Wednesday .
Energy officials in Georgia say strong winds and heavy snow have downed power lines in the western part of the country , cutting power to millions of citizens .
Deputy Energy Minister Alexander Khetaguri told the Associated Press Thursday fierce weather ruptured power lines leading from the Inguri hydroelectric station to eastern regions , leaving about three million people in the dark .
He said most of the capital , Tbilisi , was also without electricity today after a unit at a power station malfunctioned .
The small former Soviet country is already battling freezing winter temperatures with limited supplies of natural gas after two explosions Sunday hit a pipeline in Russia carrying supplies to Georgia .
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran appears to have suspended its uranium-enrichment activities , as it had promised .
Mohamed ElBaradei told reporters
Monday , at IAEA headquarters in Vienna , he thinks " pretty much everything has come to a halt " at Iran 's nuclear laboratories , but that the U.N. agency will need a few days to verify Tehran 's compliance .
Mr. ElBaradei says the IAEA should have a definite answer about Iran 's uranium-enrichment work by Thursday .
The enrichment process can be used to produce either nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes ( such as reactors to generate electricity ) or weapons-grade uranium suitable for warheads .
The United States contends Iran is engaged in a secret plan to build nuclear weapons .
Last week , President Bush said he has seen evidence that Iran was trying to accelerate its military program ahead of today 's deadline .
A new government report says orders for certain U.S. goods rose in February , increasing for a third consecutive month .
The Commerce Department said Wednesday that orders for so-called durable goods were up 0.5 percent in February , led by a jump in orders for airplanes and machinery .
Durable goods are items meant to last several years or more , and orders for such items are seen as a good measure of the country 's economic health .
The Commerce Department also said that orders for durable goods were stronger in January than previously thought , rising 3.9 percent , more than the 2.6 percent increase initially reported .
Officials also said that inventories of durable goods rose three-tenths of a percent , the biggest gain since December 2008 .
Militants in Iraq detonated several roadside bombs Friday , killing at least two people and injuring eight others .
Police in Iraq say insurgents set off a bomb near a U.S. Army convoy in Baghdad 's exclusive Mansour district .
The explosion killed one person and wounded at least five others -- some seriously .
Across town , a bomb targeting Iraqi National Guard troops killed one person and wounded at least three others .
The attacks followed twin suicide car-bomb blasts Thursday that killed at least 15 people and wounded more than 30 others .
An international journalists ' rights group has called on the European Union to maintain its support for Cuban dissidents .
In a statement released Friday , the Paris-based Reporters without Borders called Cuba the world 's biggest prison for the press after China .
The group criticized the EU Committee on Latin America 's recommendation to reestablish cooperation with Cuban authorities .
It said resumption of dialogue with the communist nation would not result in significant progress in human rights .
The group said the EU should maintain the measures adopted after the " Black Spring " arrests in March 2003 , and recommended more active support for dissidents now being repressed in Cuba .
In a separate statement , the group also strongly condemned the January 22 kidnapping of photographer Hernan Arboleda in Colombia .
It called on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , known as FARC , to immediately release Mr. Arboleda .
Israeli and Palestinian security officials met Sunday for the first time since Israel froze contacts after a suicide bombing nearly two weeks ago .
Generals from both sides met to map out plans for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from five West Bank cities and towns that Israel re-occupied during the recently-halted Palestinian uprising .
The withdrawal is part of a package of pledges made by Israel during an Israeli-Palestinian summit early last month .
As the generals met , Israeli security sources revealed that Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz will meet with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in the coming days to further the often-stalled Mideast peace process .
Israel suspended its diplomacy after a Palestinian suicide bombing killed five Israelis February 25 in a Tel Aviv nightclub .
The International Criminal Court 's chief prosecutor , Luis Moreno-Ocampo , has asked judges to report Sudan to the U.N. Security Council for failing to comply with court warrants .
Earlier this week , Moreno-Ocampo formally requested the judges issue a finding of " non-cooperation " against Sudan 's government for failing to hand over former Humanitarian Affairs Minister Ahmed Harun and militia leader Ali Kushayb .
The two men were charged in 2007 with committing crimes against humanity and war crimes in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region .
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir is also wanted by the court for alleged war crimes in Darfur .
He has refused to comply with a warrant for his arrest .
Darfur rebel groups have been fighting the Sudanese government since 2003 .
The United Nations says the fighting and related violence has killed up to 300,000 people and displaced some 2.7 million others .
Sudan puts the death toll at 10,000 .
An Indian unmanned mission to the moon will carry two scientific instruments designed by the U.S. space agency , NASA , to find minerals and ice on the lunar surface .
The deal was signed Tuesday , by NASA administrator Michael Griffin and Indian space agency ISRO 's Chairman G. Madhavan Nair in the southern Indian city of Bangalore .
The mission has been named Chandrayaan-1 , and is set to launch in 2007 or 2008 .
It will map the lunar surface using an array of sensors .
This deal is being seen as another sign of the increasingly close ties between New Delhi and Washington after decades of distance during the Cold War era .
Chandrayaan-1 also will carry scientific instruments from European research centers .
Pakistani security forces say they have arrested a senior Taleban figure in northwestern Pakistan , near the Afghan border .
Pakistani Interior Minister Aftab Khan Sherpao says the head of the ousted Taleban 's Culture and Information Council , Maulvi Muhammad Yasir , was arrested last week and is being interrogated .
He did not elaborate .
In another development , Muslim cleric Muhammad Adil Khan accused of having terror links and his son , Muhammad Hassan Adil , have arrived in Pakistan after being deported from the United States .
Pakistani officials say the two were detained upon their arrival in the city of Lahore and are being questioned by authorities .
They are part of a group of five men arrested in June as part of an FBI probe into alleged terror activities involving the Islamic community in Lodi , California .
Japan 's Prime Minister Taro Aso has unveiled a nearly $ 300 billion economic stimulus package to bolster the world 's second largest economy and help it survive the global financial crisis .
Mr. Aso announced the plan Thursday .
It includes tax cuts , benefits to households , a reduction in highway tolls , and loans to help small businesses .
The stimulus package is the first drafted under Mr. Aso , who took over a month ago , replacing former Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda .
Mr. Fukuda stepped down over political deadlock in parliament and perceived mishandling of the economy .
The media and politicians have widely expected Mr. Aso to hold snap elections after taking office .
But , he says he wants to first focus on the economy .
Elections in Japan must take place by September 2009 .
A senior Pakistani security official says security forces have arrested a suspected Al-Qaida militant believed to have been involved with the London terrorist attacks of July 2005 .
The official , who asked not to be named , told Western news agencies that Zabi ul-Taifi was arrested along with six fellow militants in a pre-dawn raid outside the northwestern city of Peshawar .
He said Taifi is an Arab national wanted in connection to the July 7 , 2005 , terrorist attacks on London 's mass transit system .
The four coordinated bombings killed 52 commuters .
British police say three of the four bombers were British citizens of Pakistani origin who are believed to have trained in Al-Qaida camps in Pakistan or Afghanistan .
Australian police say they have foiled a large-scale terrorist attack , with at least 16 arrests in Melbourne and Sydney .
Police say a suspect in the case was shot and wounded by police near Sydney , and that a bomb squad robot was being used to examine a backpack he was wearing .
A lawyer for a Muslim cleric in Melbourne named Abu Bakr said his client was among those arrested early Tuesday .
In August , Abu Bakr praised Osama Bin Laden during an interview aired by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation .
Police said the arrests disrupted a " large scale " terrorist attack in Australia .
They said bomb-making materials were found during the raids .
The arrests come just days after the federal government rushed an amendment through parliament that would give police the power to arrest people involved in the early stages of planning attacks .
During his two-day stay , Hu Jintao 's talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair are expected to touch on a range of issues , including economic relations and global warming .
Mr. Hu also is expected to discuss Beijing 's push for an end to a 16-year European Union arms embargo against China .
The ban was imposed after China 's brutal crackdown on the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests .
The Chinese president also will attend a banquet with Queen Elizabeth II .
Following his visit to Britain , Mr. Hu is to travel to Germany and Spain before heading to South Korea for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum that begins November 18 .
Security officials say at least 27 people have died in intense clashes between pro-government forces in Somalia and al-Shabab militants .
The fighting erupted late Thursday and continued into Friday in Bula Hawo , an area bordering Ethiopia and Kenya .
Officials say hundreds of residents have fled into Kenya .
Government and African Union troops captured the long-time rebel stronghold earlier this week .
The militants were trying to take it back , but government commanders said Friday they had been driven off .
Somalia has experienced nearly two decades of violence and lawlessness since the fall of the last stable central government .
The current government has been wracked by infighting and has stayed in power only with the strong support of AU peacekeepers .
Colombian leftist rebels have attacked a local military post with homemade rockets , killing 14 marines and wounding 25 others .
Navy officials say members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , carried out the attack in the southwestern county of Iscuande .
The Associated Press reports some of the troops were natives of the area and were receiving military training .
Colombia is mired in a long-running conflict involving leftist rebels , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The violence leaves thousands dead each year .
Since 2000 , the United States has provided Colombia with about three million dollars in mostly military aid to combat the rebels and drug production .
A.L. Williams Corp. was merged into Primerica Corp. , New York , after a special meeting of Williams shareholders cleared the transaction , the companies said .
Primerica , which had owned nearly 70 % of Williams , will pay about 16.7 million shares , currently valued at almost $ 472 million , for the rest of Williams .
The financial-services company will pay 0.82 share for each Williams share .
Williams shares , which were to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange after the close of composite trading yesterday , closed at $ 23.25 , off 12.5 cents .
Primerica closed at $ 28.25 , down 50 cents .
Williams , Duluth , Ga. , is an insurance and financial-services holding company .
Its subsidiaries ' services are marketed by closely held A.L. Williams & Associates .
Primerica , as expected , also acquired certain assets of the agency and assumed certain of its liabilities .
Terms were n't disclosed .
Irish officials have agreed to meet with representatives of about 40 Afghan asylum seekers on a hunger strike in Dublin 's Saint Patrick 's Cathedral after being denied permission to remain in Ireland .
Church and local authorities Tuesday said Justice Ministry officials will meet protest representatives to discuss their asylum requests .
At least five protesters suffering from dehydration have been hospitalized since the hunger strike began Sunday .
Many in the group began taking water after the Irish officials agreed to meet with them .
Officials say the group is frustrated over the rejection of their applications to remain in Ireland .
They say their lives will be in danger if they are forced to return to Afghanistan .
Justice ministry officials have said all the asylum applications were handled in a comprehensive and fair manner .
The United Nations says that some 100 villagers in the South Pacific island nation of Vanuatu have been forced to relocate because of rising seas , becoming one of the world 's first examples of " climate change refugees . "
Officials with the United Nations Environmental Program said Tuesday that locals on Tegua island in the northern part of the archipelago completed their move inland in August .
Officials said more frequent flooding and accelerating erosion in recent years has routinely damaged houses and boosted waterborne diseases in the population .
The executive director of the U.N. agency said the rising sea levels and storm surges in Vanuatu are the first manifestation of global changes that eventually will touch everyone .
A Danish court has dismissed a legal case filed by citizens who accused Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of violating the country 's constitution by sending troops to Iraq .
The group , including the family of a Danish soldier killed in Iraq , had brought suit against the prime minister .
The suit accused him of violating the constitution because he dispatched the troops in the absence of a United Nations resolution authorizing the Iraqi operation .
The plaintiffs have indicated readiness to appeal to Denmark 's Supreme Court .
Denmark has fewer than 500 troops serving in southern Iraq .
Mr. Rasmussen has announced plans to withdraw them later this year and replace them with four helicopters and an air force unit of about 50 .
An Indonesian health official says a chicken seller suspected of being infected with bird flu has died at Jakarta 's infectious diseases hospital .
A hospital spokesman said the 22-year-old dead man had a history of contact with poultry .
Indonesian authorities say their tests indicate the man was infected with the deadly H5N1 strain of the avian flu virus .
If the World Health Organization laboratory in Hong Kong confirms the case , the man will be Indonesia 's 15th fatality from avian influenza .
Ukraine 's parliament has voted to dismiss Prime Minister Yuri Yekhanurov 's government over a gas deal with Russia .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko told reporters in Astana , Kazakhstan that the vote was unconstitutional .
He said he will elaborate on the matter after consulting with his lawyers .
Even if he is dismissed , Mr. Yekhanurov will remain acting prime minister until a new cabinet is named .
Ukraine 's Justice Minister , Serhiy Holovaty says a new cabinet can only be formed after parliamentary elections in March .
The vote followed criticism of a deal reached last Wednesday under which Ukraine would pay $ 95 for 1,000 cubic meters of Russian gas .
The price is double what Ukraine had been paying .
Ukraine 's former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko last week announced plans for court action to challenge the agreement .
She said she would seek charges of betrayal of national interests and exceeding authority .
At least six people , including a U.S. soldier , have died in roadside bombs and shootings Saturday in Iraq .
In a town 80 kilometers south of Baghdad , gunmen abducted a policeman and his brother and shot them .
Also south of Baghdad , insurgents attacked an Iraqi army convoy , killing two soldiers .
In western Baghdad , a roadside bomb killed an Iraqi policeman and wounded two others .
The U.S. military said an American soldier died when a roadside bomb hit his convoy southwest of Baghdad .
The bodies of at least six men , apparently killed execution-style , were found in the capital .
The violence comes as Iraqi leaders continue their efforts to form a new cabinet .
Washington says a national unity government will help stem the violence .
This month , about 70 U.S. soldiers have died in Iraq , making it the deadliest month for US troops this year .
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among mortals .
For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and visited in this disguise a Sculptor 's studio
having looked at various statues , he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter and Juno .
When the sum at which they were valued was named , he pointed to a figure of himself , saying to the Sculptor , " You will certainly want much more for this , as it is the statue of the Messenger of the Gods , and author of all your gain . "
The Sculptor replied , " Well , if you will buy these , I 'll fling you that into the bargain . "
Pakistani police have used batons to break up a protest march by survivors of the October 8 earthquake protesting their eviction from a makeshift camp in Pakistani Kashmir .
Officials say the violence erupted Friday as some 200 people marched through the streets of Muzaffarabad .
Police blocked their way , then began dispersing the crowd with batons , rifle butts and canes .
Several people were reported injured .
Police made a number of arrests .
Officials say quake survivors had been asked to leave the informal camps set up throughout the city because the facilities lacked adequate sanitation and posed a public health risk .
International organizations say the 7.6 magnitude earthquake killed at least 86,000 Pakistanis and made some three million homeless .
More than 1,300 people were killed in Indian Kashmir .
SOME TRAVELERS , journeying along the seashore , climbed to the summit of a tall cliff , and looking over the sea , saw in the distance what they thought was a large ship .
They waited in the hope of seeing it enter the harbor , but as the object on which they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind , they found that it could at the most be a small boat , and not a ship .
When however it reached the beach , they discovered that it was only a large faggot of sticks , and one of them said to his companions , " We have waited for no purpose , for after all there is nothing to see but a load of wood . "
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities .
Automobile sales in the United States fell in June as high gasoline prices kept consumers away from trucks and sports utility vehicles that require a lot of fuel .
U.S.-based General Motors , the world 's largest carmaker , Tuesday announced sales fell more than 18 percent in June from the same month last year .
GM's Japanese rival Toyota reports its sales fell more than 21 percent .
In a statement , GM said its truck market has been affected by the sudden rise in fuel prices .
But , it says demand is continuing to grow for hybrid cars , which use less fuel than conventional vehicles because they combine a gasoline engine with high-tech batteries and electric motors .
On Friday , a major U.S. credit-rating service announced renewed concerns about the top three American automakers , GM , Ford and Chrysler , due to the industry-wide sales slump .
China has ruled out holding a meeting with senior leaders from Japan and South Korea during an upcoming Asian economic meeting in Malaysia .
The three nations have met on the sidelines of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit for the past six years .
China 's foreign ministry spokesman said the three-way meeting would not take place due to reasons he described as " known to all . "
That was an apparent reference to China 's objections to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's repeated visits to a controversial war shrine .
The Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo honors Japan 's war dead , including those guilty of criminal acts during World War II .
Critics say the shrine glorifies Japan 's wartime past , but Mr. Koizumi says he visits the shrine to pray for peace .
Two U.S. astronauts from the space shuttle Discovery have completed a third spacewalk to make external repairs on the International Space Station .
Michael Fossum and Ronald Garan spent more than six hours Sunday outside the orbiting laboratory , where they replaced a nitrogen tank used to cool the station .
They also inspected a problematic joint attached to the station 's solar power panels .
The astronauts collected samples of debris from the joint for analysis on Earth .
This was the astronauts ' final spacewalk of the 14-day shuttle mission .
The Discovery arrived at the station last week to install a new Japanese laboratory named Kibo .
On Saturday , Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda spoke to Japanese astronaut Akihiko Hoshide through a video link to congratulate the team on its work .
Hoshide and the other astronauts tested the Kibo 's robotic arm for the first time on Saturday .
Kibo is Japanese for " hope . "
Hundreds of Iraqis gathered Friday in a Christian church in Baghdad to mark 40 days since al-Qaida militants carried out a deadly October siege there .
Christians at the badly damaged Our Lady of Salvation ( Sayidat al-Nejat ) church remembered the 46 worshippers who died in the October 31 attack .
Witnesses say militants entered the church firing guns and immediately killed one of the priests at point-blank range .
The militants then held more than 100 worshippers as hostages until Iraqi forces stormed the church and ended the siege .
The families of victims and survivors were among those who attended Friday 's mass .
As many as 1.2 million Christians lived in Iraq before the 2003 invasion to oust leader Saddam Hussein .
However , many have since fled abroad in the wake of stepped-up violence by al-Qaida-linked Muslim insurgents .
A Pakistani immigrant has been sentenced to 30 years in prison for helping an al-Qaida operative gain entrance to the United States .
Uzair Paracha had been convicted last November of posing as former U.S. resident Majid Khan , in order to obtain documents so the al-Qaida operative could slip back into the United States .
Prosecutors said Khan plotted to bomb underground gasoline storage tanks in the eastern U.S. state of Maryland in 2003 .
Khan never arrived in the country and the plot was never carried out .
Paracha 's lawyers told the court that he had been duped into participating in the plot , and that his statements to investigators had occurred under pressure .
The judge in the case said Paracha was fully aware that he was dealing with al-Qaida when he agreed to help Khan .
French President Jacques Chirac says his top priority is ending the two-week-old wave of urban unrest , as he pledged to address the root causes of the violence
The French leader told a Paris news conference Thursday the government will have to respond to problems in largely Muslim-inhabited working class suburbs , which have experienced most of the rioting .
The violence has involved youths of immigrant background who have complained of police harassment , racism and job discrimination .
The violence began October 27 after the accidental deaths of two teenagers of North African descent who thought they were being chased by police .
Police Thursday reported fewer violent incidents in France 's metropolitan centers .
Authorities also said they have suspended eight police officers pending investigation into Monday 's beating of a young man in a northern suburb of Paris during the disturbances .
With vote counting nearly completed , Liberia appears headed for a presidential run-off election between football ( soccer ) star George Weah and former World Bank economist Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf .
Neither candidate captured the outright majority in last Tuesday 's vote to avoid the run-off , which is expected to be held November 8 .
The latest tally shows Mr. Weah leading the field of 22 candidates with 28.9 percent of the vote .
Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf is second with 19.7 percent .
More than 90 percent of polling stations had reported results as of early Monday .
Last week 's presidential and parliamentary elections were the first in Liberia since a peace deal in 2003 ended 14 years of warfare and sent former President Charles Taylor into exile .
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz says Arab residents of East Jerusalem will be allowed to vote in this month 's Palestinian parliamentary elections .
Mofaz said Tuesday that Arabs will be able to cast ballots at post offices , as they have in past Palestinian elections , under interim peace deals in the 1990s .
But other Israeli officials say that decision has not yet been finalized .
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat says he has not heard anything on the matter from Israeli officials .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Monday that U.S. officials assured him voting would take place in East Jerusalem as scheduled .
He had threatened to cancel the election if Israel barred voting in East Jerusalem , to protest the inclusion of candidates from the Hamas militant group .
Two senior U.S. envoys are due in the region this week for talks with both sides ahead of the January 25 vote .
A DOG , crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in his mouth , saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that of another Dog , with a piece of meat double his own in size .
He immediately let go of his own , and fiercely attacked the other Dog to get his larger piece from him .
He thus lost both : that which he grasped at in the water , because it was a shadow ; and his own , because the stream swept it away .
The United Nations says it will summon more Syrian officials for questioning in its probe of the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri .
In an interview with Lebanon 's al-Mustaqbal newspaper , which is owned by the Hariri family , U.N. chief investigator Detlev Mehlis says he will ask permission from Syria in the next few days to question more officials about the assassination .
He did not specify which officials he wants to question .
International investigators interrogated five Syrian officials in the Austrian capital , Vienna , this week in connection with the February 14 truck bomb that killed Mr. Hariri and 22 others .
Mr. Mehlis said the Vienna interviews were more fruitful than a series of earlier interrogation sessions in Damascus .
In an interim report in October , the U.N. investigator implicated senior Syrian security officials and their Lebanese allies in the murder .
Muzaffarabad , a city of 600,000 people that was shaken to pieces by the Kashmir earthquake , is a scene of chaos Monday , with survivors ransacking shops in a desperate hunt for food and fuel .
Reports from Pakistani Kashmir say angry crowds attacked military trucks that entered the city today , carrying the first shipments of tents , blankets and medicine for Muzaffarabad .
Military officials say Saturday 's earthquake killed at least 11,000 people in Muzaffarabad and left more than 120,000 others in urgent need of shelter .
Aid agencies say conditions are even worse in many smaller towns and villages .
A VOA correspondent who traveled with a military convoy from Pakistan 's North-West Frontier Province into the disaster zone today says helicopters are airlifting the most seriously injured survivors out of Muzaffarabad .
Crowds have gathered at a stadium in the center of the city .
Bodies of scores of dead are piled on the stadium steps .
Tokyo is calling for dialogue with Beijing after violent anti-Japanese protests in China during the weekend .
Japan 's chief cabinet secretary , Hiroyuki Hosada , told reporters Monday that hard work must be done to prevent misunderstandings from growing .
His remarks came a day after thousands of protesters mobbed Japan 's consulate in Guangzhou and a Japanese supermarket in Shenzhen Sunday .
Two Japanese students were attacked in a Shanghai restaurant Sunday , and on Saturday , protesters in Beijing broke windows at the Japanese Embassy .
The unrest was triggered by Tokyo 's decision to approve history textbooks that allegedly minimize Japan 's brutal occupation of China before and during the Second World War .
China 's Foreign Ministry says Japan must find a way to address the feelings of the Chinese people .
SEEING a ship sailing by upon the sea of politics , an Ambitious Person started in hot pursuit along the strand ; but the people 's eyes being fixed upon the Presidency no one observed the pursuer .
This greatly annoyed him , and recollecting that he was not aquatic , he stopped and shouted across the waves ' tumultous roar :
" Take my name off the passenger list . "
Back to him over the waters , hollow and heartless , like laughter in a tomb , rang the voice of the Skipper : " 'T ai n't on ! "
And there , in the focus of a million pairs of convergent eyes , the Ambitious Person sat him down between the sun and moon and murmured sadly to his own soul :
" Marooned , by thunder ! "
Burma 's pro-democracy leader , Aung San Suu Kyi , is resting at her home in Rangoon after being treated at a hospital for a stomach illness .
A spokesman for her party , the National League for Democracy , tells reporters she was taken to the hospital Friday , but is now back at home .
He said she was suffering from acute diarrhea .
The Burmese military confirmed that the pro-democracy leader has been sick .
It has confined her to her home for much of the past two decades .
On Friday , the military leadership confirmed that Aung San Suu Kyi 's house arrest was extended in May for another year .
The government said she remains a threat to the state .
The United States , Britain and several of Burma 's neighbors in Southeast Asia have urged the military to release Aung San Suu Kyi and take steps toward political reconciliation in Burma .
India 's prime minister has met with top nuclear scientists to discuss their objections to changes proposed by US lawmakers in the civilian nuclear agreement reached last year between New Delhi and Washington .
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met with the group of eight scientists Wednesday after they had urged India 's parliament to reject the changes .
They said in an open letter earlier this week that the proposed modifications would place restraints on India 's nuclear options .
Mr. Singh is scheduled to speak to the upper house of parliament Thursday and is expected to reassure it that the government will not accept any changes to last year 's deal .
The U.S. House of Representatives approved the changes in India-US civilian nuclear agreement in July .
The U.S. Senate is expected to vote on it next month .
The New York Times newspaper reports the Pentagon used military analysts working for U.S. television networks to generate favorable coverage of the war in Iraq and other issues .
The newspaper Sunday said the analysts were invited to private briefings with senior military leaders , taken on tours of Iraq and given access to classified intelligence .
The Times also said viewers were not made aware that most of the analysts have ties to military contractors .
Many of the analysts are retired high-ranking military officials .
The report says the companies included large defense businesses and smaller companies that had a vested interest in the war policies the analysts discussed .
The Times quotes a Pentagon spokesman , Bryan Whitman , as saying the analysts had been given only factual information about the war .
The newspaper says it based its report on 8,000 email messages , transcripts and records it secured after winning a lawsuit against the Pentagon .
Afghan and coalition forces have killed at least 48 suspected militants in two operations in southern Afghanistan .
An Afghan army general , Sher Mohammad Zazai , said Wednesday that 23 suspected Taliban fighters had been killed after Afghan and coalition forces stormed a Taliban stronghold near the capital of Uruzgan province .
The general said regional Taliban commander Mullah Ismail was among the militants killed in the assault .
In neighboring Helmand province , Afghan officials said troops killed at least 25 suspected militants .
The Taliban-dominated province is where more than 500 British soldiers began carrying out a major air assault on a Taliban stronghold late last week .
Meanwhile , Afghan officials said at least seven civilians were killed in a roadside bombing in Helmand province .
In southern Zabul province , local officials said two Afghan intelligence officers and four alleged Taliban fighters were killed Tuesday in separate incidents .
Former Maoist rebels attacked vehicles , forced shops to close and blocked highways Sunday in Nepal to enforce a general strike called to protest the president .
Maoists in Nepal began a three-day strike Sunday , forcing the closure of shops and businesses , and blocking roads and highways .
The former rebels are protesting what they call the unconstitutional actions of Nepal 's president in overturning their decision to fire the head of the army .
The protest has been largely peaceful , although police say some vehicles have been vandalized , and some protesters have been arrested .
Tensions have been high in Nepal since a Maoist-led government resigned in May amid a dispute with President Ram Baran Yadav concerning the army chief .
The former rebels have since led a series of protests .
Maoists ended a decade-long civil war in 2006 to join a peace process .
They won a majority of seats in parliament in elections last year .
A published report says the Bush administration is considering plans for permanently imprisoning some suspected terrorists held by the U.S. military and Central Intelligence Agency .
The Washington Post Sunday quotes unidentified U.S. officials as saying the White House is considering a plan to indefinitely hold certain detainees the administration does not want released or turned over to courts in the United States or other countries .
In some cases , the reason is said to be a lack of evidence .
The newspaper says Washington is considering transferring large numbers of prisoners from Afghanistan , Yemen and Saudi Arabia held at the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba to U.S.-built prisons in their homelands .
International human rights groups have criticized the Bush administration for indefinitely detaining people without charges or allowing them access to legal counsel .
Somali elders in the north of the country say pirates have released two German hostages who were kidnapped more than six weeks ago .
The Germans were freed Friday .
Elders say a ransom was paid for the two .
They are now in the Somalia 's main port city Bossaso and are expected to be flown out of the country soon .
They were abducted from their yacht off the coast of Yemen when they were traveling to Thailand .
Piracy is rife along Somalia 's coast and has increased over the last year .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban says members of the group have killed four kidnapped foreigners but released their four Afghan colleagues .
He said the foreigners were killed without demands because demands were never met in the past .
But there is no independent confirmation about the fate of the eight men .
The four ethnic Albanians and four Afghans were abducted in an area between the restive southern provinces of Kandahar and Helmand .
They all worked for Ecolog , a German cleaning company contracted to U.S.-led forces .
In a separate development , U.S. military officials say coalition forces have detained 11 militants suspected of involvement in a bombing that killed four American troops in eastern Kunar province Sunday .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says another American serviceman was killed Monday when his vehicle overturned during a combat operation in eastern Nangarhar province .
Jamaica 's prime minister has announced plans for a huge economic stimulus package to stave off some of the side effects of the global financial slowdown .
In a televised broadcast Sunday night , Bruce Golding said the measures would mostly be aimed at small businesses , manufacturing and the ailing tourism industry .
The plan includes tax cuts and at least $ 6.4 million in loans for the tourism sector to help with cash flow .
Another $ 4.5 million will go toward small businesses .
Mr. Golding also pledged to help workers who have lost their jobs and borrowers who are having difficulty making their mortgage payments .
Mr. Golding said the moves would help weather the crisis , but that further re-structuring would be needed to make Jamaica more business and investment friendly .
Two surveys of Americans this week suggest support for President Bush is near or at an all-time low .
A poll by CNN , USA Today and the Gallup released Friday indicates 38 percent of Americans approve of the way the president is handling his job , a point higher than the record low the group found last November .
Those surveyed noted concerns over the war in Iraq , the influence business has on the administration , and the state of health care .
The recent controversy over a Dubai company taking over management at some U.S. ports did not appear to have influenced respondents ' opinions .
A poll earlier in the week by CBS News found Mr. Bush 's popularity at an all-time low , 34 percent , with those questioned voicing discontent with the port deal , the government response to Hurricane Katrina , and the Iraq war .
The Olympic games now underway are not just about sports , they also are an opportunity for China to introduce its culture to the world .
But as China modernizes , some warn that one of its most traditional arts is in danger of disappearing .
Daniel Schearf reports from Beijing .
Donor nations have pledged a record $ 25 billion to help fight poverty in the world 's poorest nations , which are home to two and a half billion people .
The new donations boost the bank 's International Development Association 's budget to more than $ 41 billion over the next three years .
A total of 45 nations pledged donations , including six new countries -- China , Cyprus , Egypt , Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania .
Egypt and China were once recipients of World Bank aid .
The International Development Association is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world 's poorest countries .
The money addresses education , health , water , sanitation , environmental issues , business development and other issues .
A major battle is shaping up in the U.S. Senate , with Democratic majority leader Harry Reid accusing congressional Republicans of abusing power for their own political good .
Speaking in his party 's weekly radio address Saturday , Senator Reid of Nevada said plans by Republican leaders to ban the use of filibusters threatens the checks-and-balances system devised by the nation 's founding fathers .
He said stripping away the power of senators to use extended debate to stall or reject presidential judicial nominees would simply make the U.S. Senate a rubber stamp for the White House .
Mr. Reid has previously threatened to retaliate by bringing Senate business to a virtual halt if the Republican plan , called the nuclear option , is enacted .
Vietnamese veterinary officials say bird flu has infected chickens on two farms in the capital , Hanoi .
Officials say authorities have slaughtered the surviving chickens after a number of birds died on the farms in Hanoi 's Dong Anh district .
Authorities say some of the dead chickens tested positive for the often-fatal H5N1 strain of the bird flu virus .
Wednesday 's announcement follows one from Ha Tay province , where a bird flu outbreak was reported Tuesday .
Last month , the virus was identified on farms in the provinces of Hai Duong and Vinh Long .
Bird flu emerged in Vietnam in 2003 and has killed 42 people in the country since then .
It has not reported any human cases of bird flu since late 2005 .
The disease has killed 167 people worldwide .
The U.S. military says American Marines accused of killing 19 Afghan civilians while responding to an ambush last year acted in accordance with military rules .
Military officials said Friday the commander of Marine Corps forces ( Central Command ) decided not to bring criminal charges against officers involved in the March 2007 operation .
Officials said Lieutenant General Samuel Helland determined the officers acted " appropriately " after coming under attack in Afghanistan 's eastern Nangarhar province .
The military has called the incident a " complex attack , " in which a suicide car bomber rammed a U.S. convoy before other militants opened fire , sparking a gun battle .
Afghan witnesses and police have said U.S. troops fired on civilians , killing up to 19 people and wounding several others .
U.S. officials have said it is not clear whether the civilians were killed by American troops or the militants .
The president of India , Abdul Kalam , has donated the money meant to be used for the New Year 's celebrations at his presidential palace for the tsunami disaster relief fund .
A spokesman says the president has canceled the New Year festivities in view of the grim situation in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands , Tamil Nadu , Pondicherry , Kerala and Andhra Pradesh .
He also has urged well-to-do families of India to adopt at least one victim of the disaster .
Meanwhile , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's office says he will be traveling to the Andaman and Nicobar islands soon to assess the situation .
The announcement was made as he returned to New Delhi from a similar three-day trip to India 's tsunami-affected southern states of Tamil Nadu , Kerala and Andhra Pradesh .
Uruguay 's President-elect Tabare Vazquez has announced his administration will re-establish diplomatic relations with Cuba .
Mr. Vazquez announced his plans Wednesday in the Uruguayan capital , Montevideo , at a meeting of the leaders of his Broad Front coalition .
The socialist leader said Uruguay will resume diplomatic ties with Havana on March first , when he takes office .
Outgoing Uruguayan President Jorge Battle severed diplomatic ties with Cuba in April , 2002 .
Mr. Vazquez , an oncologist and former mayor of Montevideo , was elected president two weeks ago on the Broad Front ticket , with just slightly more than 50 percent of the vote .
His election ended 170 years of conservative party dominance .
Human Rights Watch says the international community is not doing enough to stop the violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Executive Director Kenneth Roth , in a statement , said the world has responded to the crisis by expressing concern and feigning action , but nothing more .
He said it is not enough to condemn atrocities in Darfur and to send a handful of African Union troops to , " merely observe the slaughter " of civilians .
A.U. troops in Darfur are not mandated to protect civilians .
Mr. Roth also said the international community has put no serious pressure on the Sudanese government to stop what he called its " murderous campaign . "
The United Nations and western countries , including the United States , have accused Sudan of backing Arab militia who have waged a campaign of murder and rape .
Sudan denies the charge .
Afghan soldiers remove the wreckage of damaged tankers from the explosion site in Kandahar Suspected Taleban rebels set off a bomb that destroyed five oil tankers carrying fuel for a U.S. military base in southern Afghanistan .
Local officials say the pre-dawn attack Sunday blew up one of the trucks parked outside Kandahar airbase , and set off a chain of explosions that destroyed four other tankers .
Three truck drivers were critically injured in the incident .
The attack comes a day after the top U.S. commander in the country , Lieutenant General David Barno , predicted the Taleban militia would collapse within the next 12 months .
He warned , however , that remaining militants financed and trained by al-Qaida allies may try to compensate by staging a " high profile attack " before the country 's first post-Taleban parliamentary elections .
An Iraqi woman suspected of being infected with the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus has died .
Iraqi officials said Thursday further tests are being conducted in Baghdad and Cairo .
If confirmed , the death would be the second caused by the virus in Iraq this year .
Meanwhile , German officials are warning pet owners to keep cats inside and dogs on a leash after lab tests confirmed a cat died from the H5N1 virus , the same strain found in a dead swan in the region .
The discoveries come a day after World Bank officials warned that an outbreak of bird flu in Nigeria is far from over .
The World Bank said Wednesday Nigeria has failed to contain the spread of the H5N1 virus among chickens , and offered to fund a bird vaccination program there .
Health officials say since 2003 , bird flu has killed more than 90 people worldwide , mostly Asians .
At least 40 people were killed and more than 120 injured when a train packed with holiday travelers derailed in the early morning hours on Wednesday in southern Pakistan .
The train was heading from the port city of Karachi to Lahore when the majority of its cars slipped off the rails near the town of Mehrabpur in Sindh province .
The manager of Pakistan 's railway system has ruled out sabotage as a cause .
He said initial reports indicate a welded joint in the track broke , due to contraction in the extreme cold .
Local villagers helped rescue those trapped in the wreckage in total darkness , before emergency crews arrived on the scene .
Many of the passengers were heading home to celebrate the Muslim festival of Eid al-Adha , the festival of sacrifice .
Pakistan suffered its worst train accident in 2005 when more than 130 people were killed after three trains collided also in Sindh province .
The head of the U.N. nuclear agency says Iran will eventually need security assurances from the United States in exchange for guarantees not to develop nuclear weapons .
Mohamed ElBaradei , the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency , spoke to reporters in Paris Monday on the sidelines of a conference on the future of nuclear energy .
He said Washington will have to get involved when the European Union and Iran discuss security issues .
Mr. ElBaradei says " regional security is not only a European affair . "
Britain , France and Germany have offered Iran political and economic incentives if it abandons uranium enrichment activities capable of producing weapons grade material .
The United States , which accuses Iran of secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons , is now supporting the European effort by offering added incentives .
Iran insists its nuclear program is only for generating electricity .
The U.S. Energy Department says oil supplies fell by 800,000 barrels last week , as prices continue to climb toward $ 100 a barrel .
Crude oil prices rose above $ 98 a barrel during trading in New York Wednesday as the dollar weakened and investors anticipated the drop in U.S. stockpiles .
Industry experts say it is inevitable that oil will reach the $ 100 mark .
Investors have been buying oil to counter the risks of inflation posed by the weak dollar .
As the dollar declines in value , oil becomes cheaper for foreign investors .
A report from the International Energy Agency , IAEA , Wednesday says oil costs will continue to rise through the year 2030 , as demand rises , particularly in China and India .
The Hollywood movie studio that produced well-known films like the James Bond series and " The Wizard of Oz " has filed for bankruptcy .
For decades , MGM has been making films that begin with the distinctive picture and sound of a lion roaring .
The studio is to be restructured and given new leadership , but it will continue making movies .
Executives from a rival film company , Spyglass Entertainment , will now run MGM .
The creditors included billionaire Carl Icahn , who was pressing for a different company to take over the failing studio .
After lengthy negotiations , the creditors agreed to exchange about $ 4 billion in debt for shares in the new company .
The studio was hurt by some expensive films that sold too few tickets to make a profit , slumping sales of DVDs , and a heavy debt burden .
Sudan 's Vice President , Salva Kiir Mayardit , has discussed the investigation into the death of his predecessor , John Garang , with the Ugandan president .
A spokesman for Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni told the French News Agency that Mr. Salva Kiir expressed satisfaction with the progress of the investigation .
The two officials also discussed the possibility of Sudanese soldiers joining forces with the Ugandan army to fight the rebel Lord 's Resistance Army in northern Uganda .
Vice President Garang died on July 30 when the Ugandan military helicopter he was traveling in crashed .
Mr. Garang had been in Uganda to visit with President Museveni , a long-time ally .
The investigation into Mr. Garang 's death is a multinational effort involving officials from Uganda , Sudan , Kenya the United States and the United Nations .
The U.S. military is denying reports that Pakistani soldiers fired at two U.S. helicopters for allegedly violating Pakistani airspace .
Lieutenant Nathan Perry Monday told VOA that U.S. helicopters did not enter
Pakistan and that there was no operation going on in the border area that would cross into Pakistan .
Local officials in Pakistan 's northern tribal region said the incident happened late Sunday when the helicopters crossed into Pakistan 's North Waziristan district .
The Pakistani army has so far not commented on the alleged incident .
Last week , Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari said his government will not tolerate violations of Pakistan 's sovereignty by any power in the name of combating terrorism .
His comments were made after a series of suspected U.S. missile strikes and a ground attack against militant targets in Pakistan .
Chinese officials are urging the European Union to go ahead with the lifting of a ban on arms sales to Beijing .
The EU had been moving towards a June date for ending the ban on arms deals , despite U.S. opposition .
Diplomats , however , say the Chinese parliament 's recent approval of a bill authorizing the use of force against Taiwan if it tries to declare independence has effectively stalled the action .
A Chinese foreign ministry official says linking the two issues is unreasonable and amounts to political discrimination not in keeping with the times .
The embargo was put into place after the Chinese crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989 .
Diplomats have told various news organizations that the effort to lift the embargo , originally spearheaded by France , will probably not move forward until sometime next year .
Leaders from the Palestinian militant group Hamas say Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas will formally ask their prime minister-designate to form a government on Tuesday .
Following talks with Mr. Abbas , Hamas leaders said the president would present Ismail Haniyeh with a formal letter of appointment and officially begin the process of filling Cabinet posts .
Hamas dominated recent parliamentary elections , and the naming of Ismail Haniyeh as prime minister is a formality .
Mr. Abbas said Sunday that the new government faces a financial crisis after Israel stopped the monthly transfer of millions of dollars in customs revenue it collects for the Palestinian Authority .
Western nations have also threatened to cut funds unless Hamas renounces violence and accepts Israel 's right to exist .
Also Monday , other Hamas leaders met with Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran .
The ayatollah urged Muslim nations to provide financial support to the Palestinian government .
After September 11 , Russia , India , and China joined the United States ' anti-terrorism coalition .
Some political analysts suggest that a major motive was to gain international acceptance for these countries ' own policies toward minorities such as the Chechens , Kashmiris , Tibetans , and Uighurs .
Of these groups , the least well known are the Uighurs , a Turkic-speaking Muslim people of northwestern China .
Since the People 's Republic of China was founded , the Uighurs have resisted Beijing 's attempts to control their religious and political activities .
In the past few years , Uighur separatist groups have been blamed for attacks in northwest China as well as the capital .
Chinese officials have warned that Beijing will not tolerate separatism or social disturbances under the guise of religion .
Judith Latham explores the condition of the " Uighurs of China " in this edition of Dateline .
The death toll in the crash of a passenger plane in northern China now stands at 54 , with the discovery of one victim on the ground .
The official Xinhua news agency had earlier reported two people had been killed on the ground , but later changed the figure to one .
The China Eastern Airlines jet , carrying 53 passengers and crew , plunged into a lake in Nanhai Park just seconds after taking off from Baotou city in Inner Mongolia at about 8:20 a.m. , local time [ 0020 UTC ] .
Witnesses said they heard a blast while the plane was still in the air .
The aircraft broke into flaming fragments as it came down , damaging a house near the lake and scorching several yachts .
The aircraft was a Canadian-made Bombardier CRJ-200 , a commuter jet designed to carry 50 passengers .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana is visiting Afghanistan Tuesday for talks with the country 's political leaders on the upcoming presidential election .
Solana met with Afghan Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta to discuss the latest developments in the region .
He is also scheduled to meet with Afghan President Hamid Karzai , several of the country 's election candidates , as well as , the head of the EU election observation mission in Afghanistan .
The European Union is deploying about 100 observers to help monitor Afghanistan 's presidential and provincial elections on August 20 .
Seventeen EU experts are already in the country to monitor pre-election preparations .
Solana 's visit follows talks in neighboring Pakistan where he pledged EU support for the nearly two million people displaced by an anti-Taliban operation in the country 's northwest .
Former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide says he hopes to return to Haiti as soon as possible , after nearly two years in exile in South Africa .
Mr. Aristide told South African television Tuesday , he is in talks with Haitian officials about his return , now that Haiti has elected a new president .
Aristide left the country after a popular revolt in 2004 that brought down his presidency .
Haiti 's new leader is former Aristide ally Rene Preval , who was declared the winner of this month 's election after a controversial change in the way blank ballots were counted .
Earlier Tuesday , Haiti 's chief elections official , Jacques Bernard , fled to the United States after receiving threats and finding his home ransacked .
Ghana is well endowed with natural resources and agriculture accounts for roughly one-third of GDP and employs more than half of the workforce , mainly small landholders .
The services sector accounts for 40 % of GDP .
Gold and cocoa production and individual remittances are major sources of foreign exchange .
Oil production at Ghana 's offshore Jubilee field began in mid-December and is expected to boost economic growth .
Ghana signed a Millennium Challenge Corporation ( MCC ) Compact in 2006 , which aims to assist in transforming Ghana 's agricultural sector .
Ghana opted for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Country ( HIPC ) program in 2002 , and is also benefiting from the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative that took effect in 2006 .
In 2009 Ghana signed a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF to improve macroeconomic stability , private sector competitiveness , human resource development , and good governance and civic responsibility .
Sound macro-economic management along with high prices for gold and cocoa helped sustain GDP growth in 2008 - 10 .
In early 2010 President John Atta MILLS targeted recovery from high inflation and current account and budget deficits as his priorities .
Pakistani officials say U.S. drone aircraft have fired missiles into a suspected militant compound in the country 's northwest tribal belt , killing at least 10 militants .
The strike took place in Datta Khel , about 45 kilometers west of Miranshah , in the North Waziristan district .
Elsewhere Sunday , Pakistani army helicopter gunships pounded suspected insurgent hideouts in the Shana Garhi area of neighboring Orakzai tribal region , and officials say at least eight militants were killed .
Pakistan 's northwestern tribal areas are considered strongholds of al-Qaida and the Taliban .
Amid rising gasoline prices and slumping U.S. sales , international auto giant General Motors announced a plan Tuesday [ July 15th ] to cut expenses and shift production to more fuel-efficient cars .
Company officials say they will lay off workers , cut truck production and suspend its stock dividend .
VOA 's Jeff Swicord Reports .
The Washington Post newspaper reports Wednesday that the U.S. government database of alleged international terrorism suspects and their associates now contains 325,000 names .
The paper says the list has quadrupled in size since it was created in 2003 .
The list is maintained by the National Counterterrorism Center .
Civil liberties advocates say they are concerned that innocent people may be on the list .
Counterterrorism center officials say the actual number of people on the list is approximately 200,000 , because the same person may appear under different spellings or aliases .
An administration official told the Post that U.S. citizens make up only a small fraction of the names .
The newspaper report says the database is a compilation of reports supplied by the CIA , FBI , and other agencies .
A group of veteran Chinese Communist Party members and academics has issued a joint statement criticizing the government for excessive media censorship .
The statement released to reporters Wednesday warned Beijing of unrest if some measures of free expression were not permitted .
The statement in particular referred to last month 's closure of a popular supplement to the China Youth Daily .
Freezing Point was a more than 10-year old publication that gained popularity for its bold articles .
The joint statement was signed by 13 people , many of whom formerly were high-ranking officials .
Among the signatories were Chairman Mao 's former secretary Li Rui ; the former head of the Communist Party 's Propaganda Department , Zhu Houze ; and Li Pu , the retired deputy director of the official Xinhua news agency .
Iran has warned that it will make what it calls " unilateral decisions " regarding its nuclear program if Europe refers the Islamic Republic to the United Nations Security Council for sanctions .
The warning Sunday by an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi comes just days before the resumption of high-level talks with France , Germany and Britain .
He told journalists that negotiations this week in Geneva will prove whether Tehran can reach an agreement with Europe .
Iran has raised the stakes in the negotiations by threatening to resume processing uranium , a step in its nuclear program that could allow it to manufacture nuclear reactor fuel or weapons-grade nuclear material .
Tehran says its nuclear program is intended for peaceful purposes .
The United States says it is meant to hide a secret weapons program .
World leaders attending a conference on Islam 's global roles are calling on Muslim clerics and scholars to do more to denounce terrorism and its masterminds .
The gathering in Vienna of religious and political leaders is examining ways to improve contacts between the West and Muslim nations .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani told the gathering that if terrorism is not denounced it might allow Islamic radicalism to spread .
He said Islamic leaders must declare that terrorist groups are only trying to deceive their followers and do nothing but create destruction .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai warned that failure to defeat Taleban-led terrorism in his country could have wider consequences , and predicted more attacks to come .
But he vowed they will not stop him from democratizing the country and further strengthening the democratic institutions .
The United Nations says Somali gunmen who hijacked a U.N.-chartered vessel carrying food aid for tsunami victims have released the ship after holding it for more than two months .
A spokeswoman for the U.N. World Food Program , Rene McGuffin , says the vessel is en route to the Somali port of El-Maan and is expected to arrive in a few days .
She says the U.N. agency has negotiated with El-Maan port authorities to ensure a free passage of the food aid to Somalia 's transitional government for distribution .
The World Food Program hired the Kenyan vessel to carry 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
The ship and its 10-person crew was hijacked by pirates as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia in June .
Oil cleanup efforts in the Gulf of Mexico soon could get a boost , if tests of a new skimming vessel go well .
Crews began testing the massive Taiwanese tanker , dubbed A Whale , on Friday and continued those operations on Saturday .
The ship , about 275 meters long , takes in oil-laden sea water through vents , separating the oil and then pumping the cleaned water back into the Gulf .
Its makers say it can process up to 80 million liters of oily water a day .
A smaller group of oil skimmers also was hard at work Saturday , after halting operations for several days because of rough conditions created by then-Hurricane Alex .
Alex also delayed the hookup of a third containment vessel that is set to double the amount of oil being collected to up to 53,000 barrels a day .
The vessel is now expected to be in place next week .
Separately , U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administrator Lisa Jackson visited Pensacola , Florida Saturday to inspect the ongoing response to the oil spill .
Jackson was there to oversee beach cleanup operations .
The oil crisis followed an explosion on a rig leased by oil company BP .
The April 20 blast killed 11 workers .
Government estimates say the broken well is gushing up to 60,000 barrels of oil into the Gulf each day .
A sports agent based in the U.S. state of California has been found guilty of smuggling Cuban baseball players into the United States .
A court in Key West , Florida , found Gustavo Dominguez guilty Thursday on 21 federal charges , including conspiracy , smuggling , transporting , and harboring illegal immigrants .
Most of the charges carry a maximum prison sentence of 10 years .
Dominguez is free until his sentencing July 9 .
His lawyer says they will appeal .
Dominguez was on trial for smuggling five baseball players from Cuba to Florida in 2004 .
Only two are still playing baseball .
Osbek Castillo is a pitcher for the Arizona Diamondbacks ' feeder team in Alabama , while Francisely Bueno pitches for the Atlanta Braves ' feeder team in Mississippi .
Former world number one women 's tennis player Martina Hingis has lost in the semifinals of the Australian women 's hard court tournament in Gold Coast , falling to fourth seeded Italian Plavia Pennetta 1-6 , 7-6 , 6-2 .
The loss Friday ended Hingis ' three match winning streak in her first tournament since injuries forced the Swiss tennis player into retirement three years ago .
She also announced after the match that she would not play in a scheduled semifinal doubles match later Friday because of a hip injury .
Hingis still intends to play in the Sydney International Tournament next week and the Australian open which begins January 16 .
In the other semifinal match Friday , the Czech Republic 's Lucie Safarova defeated third-seeded Dinara Safina of Russia , 6-4 , 6-2 .
The British and Irish prime ministers say much has been achieved in the Northern Ireland peace process but an accord on restoring the province 's power-sharing government is not yet complete .
Britain 's Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart , Bertie Ahern , spoke in Belfast Wednesday , their latest deadline for agreement .
The two men insisted a deal on the issue is very close and reaffirmed their commitment to continue efforts for an accord .
The Irish Republican Army said Tuesday it turned down a demand by hard-line Protestants that it provide photographic evidence of its disarmament .
The head of the IRA 's political wing says that to do so would mean public humiliation .
Negotiators are trying to revive a power-sharing administration established under the 1998 Good Friday peace accord .
Britain suspended the Northern Ireland government two years ago , amid charges of IRA spying on provincial officials .
A Latina member of the U.S. Congress has accused Republicans of scapegoating illegal immigrants .
In the Democratic party 's weekly radio address Saturday , Hilda Solis of California said Republicans have steadily built up an assault on immigrants over the past few years to divide voters and win elections .
The lawmaker , the child of Mexican and Nicaraguan immigrants , said a House bill that criminalizes being or helping illegal immigrants is alienating all Americans .
Solis called for renewed debate on immigration reform as soon as Congress returns from its two-week recess .
She said reform should be tough , smart , and comprehensive , yet compassionate .
Afghan officials say at least 10 civilians were killed Friday when a barrage of rockets targeting a U.S. military base in eastern Afghanistan hit a nearby village .
Several others were wounded in the attack in Kunar province believed to be the work of Taleban militants .
Hours earlier , a suicide bomber blew up a car packed with explosives near an entrance to the Kabul International Airport , killing two Afghan soldiers and wounding about 10 others .
The bomber rammed the car into a NATO vehicle but the explosives did not go off immediately .
The car sped off and then exploded , hitting a group of Afghan soldiers waiting to fly to Italy for military training .
The Taleban claimed responsibility for the attack .
The past 19 months in Afghanistan have been marked by a steady rise in militant attacks , marking the bloodiest period since the Taleban was ousted from power by U.S. troops in 2001 .
Marc Anthony has agreed to pay approximately $ 2.5 million in back taxes , after failing to file income tax returns for five years .
Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said the Latin music singer , who is married to singer-actress Jennifer Lopez , failed to file returns from 2000 through 2004 on $ 15.5 million in income .
Morgenthau said he did file for 2005 .
Marc Anthony - born Marco Antonio Muniz - signed the payment agreement April 3 .
Morgenthau said his office did not prosecute the 38-year-old singer because he was apparently unaware of errors on the part of the professional accountant who prepared his tax returns .
Iraq 's parliament is due to hold a special session Sunday to try to resolve political disputes delaying the passage of a provincial elections law .
Parliamentary speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani says a special session is needed to debate the measure because the assembly went into summer recess Wednesday .
Iraq 's government had hoped to hold provincial elections in October , but disagreements between Iraqi factions about electoral guidelines mean the vote may be delayed until next year .
Iraqi Kurdish lawmakers have rejected proposals to share provincial council seats in Kirkuk equally among the region 's ethnic groups .
Iraqi Kurds and their allies currently hold the majority in Kirkuk 's assembly .
Hundreds of Iraqi Kurds protested in the northern city of Sulaimaniya Wednesday against the proposal for power-sharing in Kirkuk .
A similar protest in the city of Irbil on Tuesday drew thousands of people .
In a solemn ceremony , the United Nations has marked the third anniversary of the deadly attacks on the world body 's offices in Baghdad .
In a statement Friday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the bombing dealt a fatal blow to the illusion that wearing a U.N. blue helmet or hoisting a U.N. flag placed peacekeepers out of reach of violence .
He said U.N. staff now confront direct and deadly threats to their safety .
He said , however , the world body remains committed to work for peace in such places as Lebanon , Darfur , Haiti and Iraq .
Twenty-two people were killed and hundreds others injured when a bomb struck the U.N. offices in the Iraqi capital three years ago Saturday .
Among those killed was the U.N. 's top envoy in Iraq and High Commissioner for Human Rights , Sergio Viera de Mello .
U.S. soldiers in Iraq have discovered a large cache of weapons and ammunition during a random house-to-house search in Baghdad .
U.S. military officials say the soldiers also detained five suspected terrorists in Monday 's operation in the Al Rashid district of the capital .
Rocket launchers , mortars , AK-47 rifles , explosives and 300 rounds of ammunition , along with several Iraqi police uniforms were among the items seized from the house .
Meanwhile , Iraqi and Egyptian official say there has been no contact from the assailants who abducted Egypt 's top envoy to Iraq .
Officials say the envoy , Ihab al-Sherif , was kidnapped Saturday near his home in Baghdad as he stopped to buy a newspaper .
His abduction follows Cairo 's announcement that Egypt would become the first Arab nation to establish full diplomatic ties with Iraq 's new government .
Chad 's primarily agricultural economy will continue to be boosted by major foreign direct investment projects in the oil sector that began in 2000 .
At least 80 % of Chad 's population relies on subsistence farming and livestock raising for its livelihood .
Chad 's economy has long been handicapped by its landlocked position , high energy costs , and a history of instability .
Chad relies on foreign assistance and foreign capital for most public and private sector investment projects .
A consortium led by two US companies has been investing $ 3.7 billion to develop oil reserves - estimated at 1 billion barrels - in southern Chad .
Chinese companies are also expanding exploration efforts and are currently building a 300-km pipeline and the country 's first refinery .
The nation 's total oil reserves are estimated at 1.5 billion barrels .
Oil production came on stream in late 2003 .
Chad began to export oil in 2004 .
Cotton , cattle , and gum arabic provide the bulk of Chad 's non-oil export earnings .
Afghan election officials say they plan to increase the number of voting stations for next week 's presidential runoff election , despite concerns that could lead to more fraud than in the first vote .
Afghanistan 's independent election commission says it will slightly increase the number of polling centers to 6,322 and have enough staff to ensure a credible process .
Foreign election observers had recommended reducing the more than 6,000 polling centers used in the first round after auditors found more than one million fraudulent votes .
Many fake ballots are believed to have come from remote polling stations that never opened or did not have observers monitoring the vote .
Meanwhile , the Taliban in Afghanistan has vowed to intensify its attacks leading up to the November 7 election .
A Taliban spokesman told the French news agency the militant group has new plans and tactics to disrupt the election .
The United Nations has not responded to the Afghan announcement of an increase in polling centers .
On Wednesday , U.N. officials said workers will continue to help the country prepare for the vote , despite a deadly Taliban attack on a Kabul guesthouse that killed five U.N. staff members .
The Taliban said the attack Wednesday was the first step of a plan aimed at disrupting the vote , in which incumbent President Hamid Karzai is facing off against former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah .
High population density , limited land and sea access , continuing isolation , and strict internal and external security controls have degraded economic conditions in the Gaza Strip - the smaller of the two areas in the Palestinian Territories .
Israeli-imposed crossings closures , which became more restrictive after HAMAS violently took over the territory in June 2007 , and fighting between HAMAS and Israel during December 2008 - January 2009 , resulted in the near collapse of most of the private sector , extremely high unemployment , and high poverty rates .
Shortages of goods are met through large-scale humanitarian assistance - led by UNRWA - and the HAMAS-regulated black market tunnel trade that flourishes under the Gaza Strip 's border with Egypt .
However , changes to the blockade in 2010 included moving from a white list - in which only approved items were allowed into Gaza through the crossings - to a black list , where all but non-approved items were allowed into Gaza through the crossings .
Israeli authorities have recently signaled that exports from the territory might be possible in the future , but currently regular exports from Gaza are not permitted .
Meterologists say a new tropical storm has formed off the east coast of Florida but do not expect the storm to become a hurricane .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Tropical Storm Tammy is centered about 32 kilometers east of Cape Canaveral , home of the United States ' space shuttle fleet .
The storm is expected to move up the East Coast and dump heavy rain on the states of Florida , Georgia , and South Carolina .
But forecasters say Tammy will likely spend only a short time over water , preventing it from gaining hurricane strength .
Tammy is the 19th named storm of this year 's unusually active Atlantic hurricane season .
The 18th storm of the season , Tropical Storm Stan , is dissipating after passing over the mountains of southeastern Mexico .
Venezuela has rejected accusations from U.S. Secretary of State-nominee Condoleezza Rice that it meddles in the affairs of other Latin American countries .
At a news conference in Caracas Wednesday , Venezuelan Foreign Minister Ali Rodriguez called the comments from Ms. Rice " unacceptable . "
He denied that the government of President Hugo Chavez interferes in other countries ' affairs , and accused the United States of trying to meddle in Venezuela 's affairs .
Ms. Rice made her comments Tuesday at her U.S. Senate confirmation hearing .
She called the Chavez government a " negative force " that affects other countries and suppresses opposing voices .
She also said the relationship between the leftist Mr. Chavez and Cuban leader Fidel Castro has been " deeply troubling . "
U.S.-Venezuelan relations have been tense since Mr. Chavez took power in 1999 .
Fiji , endowed with forest , mineral , and fish resources , is one of the most developed of the Pacific island economies though still with a large subsistence sector .
Sugar exports , remittances from Fijians working abroad , and a growing tourist industry - with 400,000 to 500,000 tourists annually - are the major sources of foreign exchange .
Fiji 's sugar has special access to European Union markets but will be harmed by the EU 's decision to cut sugar subsidies .
Sugar processing makes up one-third of industrial activity but is not efficient .
Fiji 's tourism industry was damaged by the December 2006 coup and is facing an uncertain recovery time .
In 2007 tourist arrivals were down almost 6 % , with substantial job losses in the service sector , and GDP dipped .
The coup has created a difficult business climate .
The EU has suspended all aid until the interim government takes steps toward new elections .
Long-term problems include low investment , uncertain land ownership rights , and the government 's inability to manage its budget .
Overseas remittances from Fijians working in Kuwait and Iraq have decreased significantly .
Fiji 's current account deficit reached 23 % of GDP in 2006 .
The Philippine government says it will resume peace talks with Muslim separatist rebels next month in neighboring Malaysia .
Manila 's top negotiator Silvestre Afable said Friday that talks with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front ( MILF ) will begin in Kuala Lumpur on April 16 .
Both sides have been observing a cease-fire for the past 20 months , monitored by a 60-member Malaysian-led international contingent .
The MILF , which has been fighting a three-decade-old insurgency in the southern Philippines , has renounced terrorism and pledged to help hunt down foreign extremists .
But the group has been accused of sheltering operatives of the regional terror network Jemaah Islamiyah , accusations the MILF has repeatedly denied .
Pope John Paul is hailing the European Union 's newly-signed constitution , while urging Europe to remember its Christian roots .
In his weekly appearance at St. Peter 's Square in Rome , the pope described Friday 's signing of the EU constitution as a significant moment in the creation of a new Europe .
But the pope added that Europe 's Christian heritage remains a fundamental part of the Union 's future .
The Vatican had pushed unsuccessfully for a reference to Europe 's Christian tradition in the constitution .
On Saturday , Italy 's candidate for the European Union 's top executive body , Rocco Buttiglione - a conservative Catholic - stepped down from consideration following controversial remarks that included his description of homosexuality as a sin .
The Norwegian Nobel Institute has announced a near-record number of nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006 .
The five-member awards committee says there are 191 nominations .
Last year 's award to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) and its leader Mohamed ElBaradei followed a record 199 nominees .
The committee keeps the nomination list secret .
The institute 's director Geir Lundestad would only say 168 individuals and 23 organizations were suggested from all parts of the world .
However , those who submit nominations can announce their selections .
Nominees include a former Finnish President and Indonesian President for negotiating peace in Indonesia 's Aceh province .
Also on the list are U2 singer Bono and Live 8 organizer Bob Geldof for their work on poverty eradication .
The Peace Prize is awarded on December 10 in Oslo .
A spokesman for Indonesia 's navy says five of its warships have left a disputed area in the Sulawesi Sea ahead of talks Wednesday with Malaysia .
Indonesian Foreign Minister Hasan Wirayuda is to meet with his Malaysian counterpart , Syed Hamid Albar , in Jakarta to discuss competing claims in the oil and gas-rich area .
Both countries have vowed to solve the matter diplomatically .
The dispute escalated in February when Malaysia awarded exploration contracts to Royal Dutch / Shell .
Indonesia responded by deploying seven warships and four
F-16 fighter jets in the area .
The issue has further strained relations between the two countries .
Indonesians are also angry about Kuala Lumpur 's recent crackdown on several hundred thousand illegal migrant workers from Indonesia .
Seven South American countries are launching a new development bank aimed at expanding regional trade and growth .
The Banco del Sur , or Bank of the South , is to be officially established on November third in Caracas , Venezuela .
The date was agreed on by regional finance ministers meeting in Brazil Monday .
The bank , championed by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , is also supported by Argentina , Brazil , Bolivia , Paraguay , Uruguay and Ecuador .
The presidents of each country must sign off on the deal before the bank can get underway .
Mr. Chavez proposed the regional bank as part of a drive to counter the conditional lending practices of international institutions such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund .
Officials say the bank will be open to all South American countries .
The political leader of Hamas says the Palestinian militant group is ready to merge all armed factions to form an army that will defend the Palestinian people .
Speaking Saturday from his base in Damascus , Syria , Khaled Mashaal rejected U.S. , European and Israeli demands for Hamas to disarm .
But he said the group will honor existing agreements between the Palestinian Authority and Israel , provided they serve the Palestinians ' interests .
Hamas has claimed many suicide attacks against Israel and has vowed to destroy the Jewish state .
Meanwhile , armed activists of the Palestinian Fatah party have held protests in the West Bank and Gaza , following Hamas ' stunning election victory this week over Fatah .
Fatah gunmen fired shots in the air today from the roof of the Palestinian parliament building in the West Bank town of Ramallah , demanding the resignation of Fatah leaders .
There were no reports of casualties .
Foreigners are flocking to the Chinese capital for the Olympic Games and Beijing has gone on the charm offensive .
With an army of volunteers ready to help tourists , thousands of police on patrol , and floral displays providing a facelift , Beijing hopes to win over the world with its makeover .
Mandy Clark reports from the Chinese capital for VOA .
Norway has expelled an Iranian diplomat in a dispute that comes a week after Iran ordered a Norwegian diplomat to leave Tehran .
In a statement Wednesday , the Norwegian Foreign Ministry did not identify the diplomat , but characterized the expulsion as a strong reaction to a similar move by Tehran several weeks ago .
The dispute erupted last month , when Oslo granted asylum to Iran 's former counsel-general , Mohammed Reza Heydari .
The Iranian quit his post in January to protest Iran 's deadly crackdown on opposition demonstrators in the Islamic republic a month earlier .
Heydari went into hiding immediately after his resignation , saying he feared for his life .
The U.S. Embassy in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia , and the consulates in Jeddah and Dhahran will be closed on Monday and Tuesday due to terror threats against U.S. government buildings in the kingdom .
An embassy statement urges U.S. citizens in Saudi Arabia to maintain a high level of vigilance .
It says there is no specific information about the timing or targets in any possible attacks .
But it notes that terrorist groups in the past have targeted housing compounds and other facilities frequented by Westerners .
A U.S. soldier has been killed and four others wounded in a bomb attack in southeastern Afghanistan .
The U.S. military says the troops were conducting security operations when the blast occurred Friday in Paktika province , near the border with Pakistan .
American casualties have been mounting amid a major upsurge in violence across Afghanistan ahead of legislative elections scheduled on September 18 .
Ethiopia says it has accepted " in principle " an independent commission 's ruling on its border with former foe Eritrea .
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi told parliament members Thursday the government has accepted the ruling in the best interests of the country .
Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a 2.5-year border war between May 1998 and December 2000 in which tens of thousands of people were killed .
As part of a deal to end the war , the two nations agreed to form an independent boundary commission and that its decision would be final and binding .
Eritrea accepted the April 2000 decision but Ethiopia said it disagreed with some aspects of its findings .
Police say at least 20 people have been killed in an explosion set off by Maoist rebels in central India 's Chattisgarh state .
Police say the rebels blew up a vehicle filled with anti-Maoist activists Tuesday .
The killings come on the eve of President Bush 's visit to India .
Maoist rebels say they are fighting for the rights of poor peasants and landless workers .
They have battled authorities for decades .
An international human rights group is urging Iran to stop executing people under the age of 18 .
Human Rights Watch says Iran executes more minors than any other country in the world .
It says Iran has carried out 17 such executions since 2004 .
It says some juveniles were given death sentences for crimes they committed when they were 15 .
An official with the rights group says Iran needs to stop sending children to the gallows and live up to its international obligations by banning the juvenile death penalty .
Human Rights Watch says the only other countries known to have executed juveniles since 2004 are Sudan , which executed two juveniles and China and Pakistan , which each executed one .
Argentine tennis player Juan Ignacio Chela and Spanish veteran Carlos Moya have reached the quarterfinals at the U.S. Open in Flushing Meadows , New York .
Chela needed three hours and 41 minutes and five sets to defeat Stanilas Warwrinka of Switzerland , 4-6 , 6-2 , 7-6 , 1-6 , 6-4 .
The Argentine will next face the winner of all-Spanish encounter between second seed Rafael Nadal and 15th seed David Ferrer .
Moya , the 17th seed , reached the quarterfinals for the first time since 1998 with a four-sets victory over 19-year-old Latvian Ernest Gulbis , 7-5 , 6-2 , 6-7 , 6-4 .
The 31-year-old Moya moves on to play third seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia , who ousted Argentine Juan Monaco , 7-5 , 7-6 , 6-7 , 6-1 .
The featured Tuesday night match on the women 's side will be top seed Justine Henin of Belgium against eighth seed Serena Williams of the United States .
Author Betty Friedan , frequently credited with laying the groundwork for modern feminism with her book , The Feminine Mystique , died of congestive heart failure Saturday .
It was her 85th birthday .
Friedan was born in Peoria , Illinois on 4 February 1921 .
She studied psychology and worked as a journalist , but was primarily a housewife when she published her groundbreaking book in 1963 .
The book 's theme was that society forced women to find their identity through their husbands and children and allowed them little personal autonomy , leaving them unfulfilled .
" The Feminine Mystique " was an immediate best-seller and made Friedan one of the most prominent voices in the women 's movement of the 1960s and 70s .
She co-founded the National Organization for Women in 1966 and the National Political Women 's Caucus in 1971 .
Friedan 's later work concentrated on how society views aging .
India says it has successfully test-fired two nuclear-capable missiles .
Defense sources say the Prithvi-II missiles were fired Monday from a test range in Chandipur in eastern Orissa state .
The missile has a range of about 220 kilometers and can carry a 500-kilogram warhead .
Analysts say Monday 's test is considered routine and unlikely to aggravate tensions with longtime rival Pakistan .
A senior Palestinian official says President Mahmoud Abbas will meet with Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni on the sidelines of an economic conference in Egypt .
Saeb Erekat said Thursday the meeting has been arranged for Sunday at the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh .
Mark Regev , a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry did not confirm the meeting , saying only that Livni 's schedule has not been finalized .
A meeting between the two would be the first high-level contact between the parties since Hamas Islamists were swept to power in Palestinian elections in January .
Israel has boycotted the Hamas-led government and ruled out peace talks unless the militant group renounces violence , recognizes Israel 's right to exist and accepts interim Israeli- Palestinian accords .
Hamas leaders say negotiations with Israel would be a waste of time .
The lawyer for an Iranian-American journalist prevented from leaving Iran says his client is facing a new charge of acting against Iran 's national security .
The lawyer for Parnaz Azima told U.S.-funded Radio Farda that Iranian authorities have given no indication when the Radio Farda journalist can leave Iran .
Azima is already facing charges of working with Radio Farda and spreading propaganda against the Iranian state .
Azima traveled to Tehran in January to visit her sick mother , but has been prevented from leaving .
Last week , Iran released on bail an Iranian-American academic who has been jailed in Tehran since May on security charges .
Haleh Esfandiari is a Middle East expert for the Woodrow Wilson Center .
Two other Iranian-Americans - urban planner Kian Tajbakhsh and Ali Shakeri , who works for a university conflict-resolution group - are also being held .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out several attacks in Baghdad Wednesday as a week-long surge of violence in the capital continues .
Officials say three separate suicide car bombings in different parts of Baghdad killed at least two Iraqis and wounded eight others .
The attacks came a day after two U.S soldiers and at least 12 Iraqis were killed in a series of attacks across the country .
A U.S. military spokesman said today the American casualties occurred in a suicide car bomb blast near a U.S. patrol in southern Baghdad .
Al-Qaida in Iraq , the nation 's most feared terrorist group , claimed responsibility for one of Tuesday 's deadliest attacks , in which six Iraqis were killed and more than 30 others wounded in a car bomb blast at an army recruitment center in Baghdad .
Other attacks killed four Iraqi troops and a Baghdad university professor and his son .
Japan says it will provide Iraq with $ 655 million in loans for port reconstruction and other infrastructure projects .
Japan 's foreign ministry said Tuesday the loans will be used to help reconstruct the port of Umm Qasr and repair a thermal power plant near Baghdad .
It said the funds would also be used for irrigation projects .
The infrastructure loans are part of $ 3.5 billion in lending that Japan pledged at a 2003 Iraq donors conference in Madrid .
Japan has around 600 non-combat troops in the southern Iraqi city of Samawa .
In December , the Cabinet approved an extension of the troop 's mission for up to one year .
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has not said whether the troops would remain the entire year , but reports from Japan have said Tokyo may consider withdrawing them sooner .
Bette Midler will replace Celine Dion as headliner at Caesar 's Palace Hotel-Casino in Las Vegas .
Famed for her bawdy stage routine , the 61-year-old Midler reportedly agreed to a two-year run of 100 shows per year .
Her five-night-a-week performances begin February 20 .
Replacing Celine Dion is no mean feat : since inaugurating her show , " A New Day , " in March 2003 , the French-Canadian singer has grossed more than $ 500 million .
She will give her final performance December 15 .
Sharing space in the 4,100-seat , $ 95 million Colosseum is Elton John , who will continue his 50 show-per-year schedule through 2008 .
Booking agent John Meglen says the new performance schedule leaves room for a probable third headliner .
He would not comment on who it may be , although entertainment insiders have mentioned Cher as a likely candidate .
Costa Rica is asking a United Nations court to order Nicaragua to withdraw its troops from disputed land along the river that forms the border between the two nations .
The International Court of Justice in The Hague began hearing arguments on the issue Tuesday .
Costa Rica accuses Nicaragua of violating international law by putting troops on Costa Rican territory for a dredging project to build a canal .
Nicaragua denies violating Costa Rican territory , saying the work is being done on its own land .
Costa Rican diplomat Edgar Ugalde told the court the action is threatening peace in the region .
Costa Rica also says the project is damaging to the area 's wetlands and wildlife .
Nicaraguan officials are also scheduled to address the court Tuesday .
AN Ambitious Writer , distinguished for the condition of his linen , was travelling the high road to fame , when he met a Tramp .
" What is the matter with your shirt ? " inquired the Tramp .
" It bears the marks of that superb unconcern which is the characteristic of genius , " replied the Ambitious Writer , contemptuously passing him by .
Resting by the wayside a little later , the Tramp carved upon the smooth bark of a birch-tree the words , " John Gump , Champion Genius . "
A British official says the government has been talking with the United States about placing part of an American anti-missile system in Britain .
A spokeswoman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Friday talks with Washington have been held at various levels , but the discussions are at an early stage .
A U.S. official in London says Washington has been discussing possible joint efforts with Britain .
But he says right now , the U.S. is concentrating on Poland and the Czech Republic as the main European sites for a missile defense shield .
Moscow has objected to U.S. plans for placing the system so close to Russia .
U.S. officials say the system is no threat to Russia , and the system is aimed at stopping such countries as Iran .
Chinese President Hu Jintao will hold talks with the leaders of Russia , Britain and France next month during commemorations in Moscow of the end of the Second World War .
An official announcement in Beijing Saturday , says it is not known whether Mr. Hu will meet with President Bush , who will be among scores of leaders attending ceremonies marking the end of the European phase of the war .
China 's assistant foreign minister Li Hui says President Hu will discuss international and regional issues in talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin .
The official added that there are no plans for a meeting in Moscow between the Chinese leader and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi .
China says Mr. Hu also will hold talks with the leaders of South Korea , Turkmenistan and Romania .
Indonesian doctors say a 20-year-old woman showing symptoms of bird flu has died in a Jakarta hospital .
A hospital spokesman , Dr. Ilham Patu , said test results confirming the cause of death are expected to be available by Monday .
Meanwhile , China confirmed its eighth outbreak of bird flu within a month on Saturday , this time in birds on farms in the central Hubei province .
The Ministry of Agriculture said the latest outbreak killed a total of 2,500 birds and prompted health officials to cull more than 30,000 birds .
China has not reported any confirmed human cases of bird flu .
Kuwait has also found the deadly H5N1 variety of avian flu in a bird culled by authorities .
Pakistani authorities are hunting for a militant who escaped from custody after being detained in connection with a plot to assassinate President Pervez Musharraf in December 2003 .
Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed confirmed Tuesday that Mushtaq Ahmed had escaped but did not provide any details .
The French News Agency says the man has been on the run for nearly seven weeks since he vanished after being allowed to go the bathroom at the detention facility near Rawalpindi , a garrison city adjacent to Islamabad .
There were two failed attempts on Mr. Musharraf 's life in December 2003 .
The Pakistani leader has angered many extremist groups by his support for the U.S.-led war on terrorism .
A senior U.N. official says Algerian authorities never responded to a request for tighter security for U.N. offices in Algiers that were later hit by a suicide bombing .
The head of the U.N. Development Agency , Kemal Dervis , said U.N. officials submitted a formal request to the Algerian government for road blockades , but no action was taken .
The bombing in December destroyed the offices in Algiers and killed at least 37 people , including 17 U.N. staffers .
Al-Qaida 's North African wing later claimed responsibility .
The U.N. secretary-general has decided to set up an independent panel to investigate the attack .
But Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhadem has criticized that move , saying the investigation will not be welcome .
He said the move was decided without consulting the Algerian government .
Canada says it has discovered what may be another case of mad cow disease .
The news comes just one day after the United States announced plans to reopen its border in March to nearly all Canadian beef and live cattle .
U.S. officials banned the import of Canadian cattle in May , 2003 after Canada found its first case of the disease .
The Canadian Food Inspection Agency says the suspected new case involves a 10-year-old dairy cow , but the human food and animal feed systems have not been effected .
The agency says final results from tests on the cow will be ready in three to five days .
Mad cow disease attacks the central nervous system of cattle and can be harmful to humans if tainted meat is consumed .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is expected to ask Hamas prime minister-designate Ismail Haniyeh to form a new government Tuesday .
Hamas wants to build a coalition government , but Mr. Abbas 's Fatah party and the militant Islamic Jihad group have declined to join .
The new Palestinian government is facing a financial crisis because of Western threats to cut aid and Israel 's freeze on the transfer of customs revenues it collects for the Palestinian Authority .
Iran is urging Muslim nations to make up the funding shortfall .
Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal said Tuesday Iran will play a greater role in Palestinian affairs .
Israel has said it will not have contact with a Hamas-led government , but Israel 's interim Prime MInister Ehud Ohlmert said Tuesday there is still hope for reaching peace .
Morocco says security forces have broken up an al-Qaida-linked militant cell that was planning attacks throughout the country .
Morocco 's state news agency quotes the Interior Ministry as saying the group consisted of 24 militants .
It said the group was " planning assassinations and acts of sabotage " targeting the security services and foreign interests in Morocco .
The agency news report says four of the group 's members had been jailed previously on terror-related charges .
It says the group also recruited Moroccan citizens to send to conflict areas such as Afghanistan , Iraq and Somalia .
The suspects were captured after an assault on a police officer in Casablanca .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai condemned a recent drug raid by U.S. and Russian forces as a violation of Afghan sovereignty .
U.S. and Russian officials say they seized a metric ton of heroin from four clandestine laboratories earlier this week in Nangarhar province , near the border with Pakistan .
Mr. Karzai was outraged , saying in a statement Saturday that he was not previously informed of the operation .
U.S. and Russian officials have both said that Afghan forces were involved in the raid .
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov told Itar-Tass news agency Saturday that Russia was satisfied with the operation and plans to continue to cooperate in the fight against drug trafficking .
Russia has been wary of supporting NATO military operations in Afghanistan but has called on NATO to do more to combat the Afghan heroin trade .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out a series of attacks Wednesday , as they pressed on with their violent campaign to disrupt Sunday 's national elections .
In northern Iraq , around Kirkuk , three car bomb blasts killed at least five people , including policemen .
In Baquba , also in the north , at least one policeman was killed when gunmen attacked the local offices of three political parties contesting in the upcoming vote .
The U.S. military says one soldier was killed and two others wounded in Tikrit , where insurgents attacked their patrol with rocket propelled grenades .
A U.S. military convoy also came under attack on the road to Baghdad 's airport .
Tuesday , U.S. and Iraqi forces said they were stepping up security efforts ahead of Sunday 's vote .
Banned American sprinter Justin Gatlin has lost his appeal to run in the U.S. Olympic athletics trials in Eugene , Oregon .
Gatlin says he will end his legal effort rather than take the case to the U.S. Supreme Court .
Gatlin has twice tested positive for banned substances .
But his first doping violation resulted from prescribed medication to treat attention deficit disorder .
In a brief decision Thursday , the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta ruled Gatlin 's case is not eligible for an injunction .
Earlier this month , the Court of Arbitration for Sport upheld a four-year ban against Gatlin for doping violations .
The defending Olympic 100-meter champion sought a court ruling that would allow him to run in the U.S. trials starting Saturday .
Former world 200-meter breaststroke record holder Brendan Hansen has failed to make the U.S. Olympic team in the event .
Hansen held the record of 2:08.50 minutes until Japanese rival Kosuke Kitajima smashed it by nearly one second on June 7 ( 2:07.51 ) .
On Thursday at the U.S. Olympic swimming trials in Omaha , Nebraska , Hansen was nearly three seconds slower ( 2:11.37 ) than his best time , which remains an American record .
Hansen is on the Olympic team in the 100-meter breaststroke and could qualify in the 400-meter medley relay .
Katie Hoff , who qualified for four individual events and one relay , failed to advance out of the semifinals of the 100-meter freestyle .
That ended her bid for as many as eight medals at the Olympics .
Northern California 's wine-making region is bracing for more flooding as a second wave of rainstorms approaches .
Residents of Napa and Sonoma are still recovering from Saturday 's storms , which dumped about 17 centimeters of rains in some places , swelling rivers , causing mudslides and flooding downtown areas .
Another wave of storms is expected to dump even more rain in the region .
Officials continue to urge people to go to higher ground .
The Russian and Napa rivers have now receded from flood levels and officials do not expect the additional rains to again cause them to breach their banks .
But the storms are threatening the streak of good weather for Pasadena 's annual Rose Bowl parade Monday before the College Football Championship game .
It has not rained during the event since 1955 .
Former senior White House aide Lewis Libby is scheduled to make his first court appearance Thursday to face perjury , false statement and obstruction of justice charges .
A grand jury indicted Mr. Libby on Friday in connection with statements he made to jurors and FBI agents investigating who in the White House publicly identified a covert CIA officer .
Mr. Libby stepped down from his post as Vice President Dick Cheney 's chief of staff after the indictments were handed down .
Monday , Mr. Cheney named his official government lawyer , David Addington , to replace Mr. Libby as chief of staff .
He chose a member of his national security team , John Hannah , to fill Mr. Libby 's other post as assistant to the vice president for national security affairs .
At least one other person , President Bush 's chief adviser Karl Rove , reportedly remains under investigation in the CIA leak probe .
Yemeni officials say government troops killed seven suspected al-Qaida militants in the country 's restive south Sunday .
The officials said the seven were killed in the town of Loder in southern Abyan province , where 11 soldiers and seven other suspected al-Qaida militants died in clashes Thursday and Friday .
On Saturday , the government urged security forces in six provinces to tighten security measures .
It also called for increased vigilance and said a massive manhunt was under way for suspects linked to the violence .
South Yemen is feared to have become a base for al-Qaida 's local branch , Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula .
Earlier this month , al-Qaida threatened to target anyone who supports Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh or what it called the " crusader campaign " by the United States .
Two senior Taiwanese Cabinet ministers have offered to resign , following the ruling Democratic Progressive Party 's defeat in legislative elections held last week .
Government Information Office chief Shieh Jhy-wey told reporters Friday that he wanted to quit ahead of the Cabinet 's planned mass resignation on January 28 .
Media reports say Education Minister Tu Cheng-sheng has also offered to go as well .
In last week 's elections , the opposition Nationalists won 81 of the 113 seats in Taiwan 's legislature .
The Nationalists campaigned on a theme of improving ties with China and strengthening Taiwan 's stagnant economy , which they blamed on President Chen Shu-bian 's pro-independence stance .
China and Taiwan split in 1949 during the Chinese civil war , and Beijing regards the self-ruled island as part of its territory .
China has threatened to use force if Taiwan takes steps towards formal independence .
Cuba and Panama have restored diplomatic ties , one year after they were severed due to Panama 's decision to pardon four Cubans accused of trying to assassinate Cuban President Fidel Castro .
Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque and his Panamanian counterpart , Ricardo Duran , Saturday signed documents in Havana to officially declare normal relations .
Havana cut off relations with Panama on August 26 , 2004 , after then-President Mireya Moscoso pardoned the Cuban exiles .
Her successor , Martin Torrijos , had vowed to re-establish ties after his inauguration last year .
Mr. Torrijos arrived Saturday in Cuba , where he attended a graduation ceremony at the Latin American School of Medicine along with Mr. Castro and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
Zimbabwe marks 25 years of independence from Britain Monday amid opposition claims that the country 's economy has not done well during those years .
Officials said leaders of neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo , Tanzania , Namibia , Angola , Mozambique and Botswana are attending the anniversary celebrations .
President Robert Mugabe , who has led the country since independence , is scheduled to give a speech extolling the country 's achievements .
But opposition groups are saying that the country is worse off today than when it gained independence 25 years ago .
Hundreds of Somalis have rallied in support of interim Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi , who narrowly survived a no-confidence vote in parliament Sunday .
Crowds of supporters marched in the Somali town of Baidoa Monday carrying signs and chanting Mr. Gedi 's name .
The no-confidence measure Sunday needed 139 votes for passage but only got 126 .
Eighty-eight lawmakers voted to keep Mr. Gedi in office .
Many lawmakers have criticized Mr. Gedi 's decision to allow Ethiopian troops onto Somali soil .
Ethiopia sent the troops earlier this month after Islamic militias that control much of southern Somalia appeared to be moving on the government 's base of Baidoa .
The transitional government has international backing but virtually no power outside the town .
The government suffered major political blows last week when 18 cabinet ministers resigned and another overseeing a rewrite of the constitution was shot and killed .
Pakistan 's security force has arrested 10 terrorists in North Wazirstan along the border area of Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Pakistani officials say the operation was launched Sunday after intelligence reports indicated that several al-Qaida suspects were hiding in the mountainous region , about 300 kilometers southwest of Islamabad .
The latest offensive comes after the Pakistani army warned local tribesman to stop protecting terrorists , or face military action .
Last week , Pakistani soldiers killed two foreign al-Qaida members and arrested 11 in the same region .
Venezuela 's defense minister says his country is considering building unmanned planes and may look to allied countries , such as Iran , for help .
General Raul Baduel says Venezuela has made progress in the development of planes that do not require human pilots .
Speaking in Caracas Monday , he said Venezuela will look to other countries for help in maintaining its aging U.S.-made F-5 fighter jets .
Venezuela has had trouble maintaining the jets since the United States began blocking arms sales to the South American country .
The Bush administration has said it considers Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez a destabilizing factor in Latin America .
North Korea has criticized recent reports of a crisis in its leadership as a U.S.-organized smear campaign .
A statement from the Foreign Ministry in Pyongyang Monday denies reports of mass defections by North Korean generals to China and called them part of a propaganda campaign designed to create instability .
The Ministry says the campaign is forcing North Korea to reconsider its participation in talks with the United States - an apparent reference to the six-party talks aimed at ending Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons ambitions .
The statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency also denounced reports in Western news media that some of the many portraits of the Communist state 's leader , Kim Jong-il , have been removed from display in North Korean cities .
An artist based in Los Angeles , California , is attracting attention with a showing of his work that combines video , audio and sculpture .
Video art , or what some call " new media art , " has been around for some time .
But this artist 's work is unusual - he combines high technology and digital gadgets , making the art interactive but as in traditional art , you could put some of the sculptures in your home .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports on the artist , who calls himself simply , " Matteo . "
Somalia 's exiled Islamist opposition is rejecting peace talks with the government that began in Djibouti on Tuesday .
The Alliance for the Re-Liberation of Somalia says that opposition figures attending the talks are not authorized to meet with the government or sign any agreements .
In the statement posted on its Web site on Wednesday , the group says it will never hold talks with the Somali government as long as Ethiopian troops remain in Somalia .
Ethiopia has several thousand soldiers in Somalia to help the interim government battle an Islamist-led insurgency .
The exiled opposition alliance is based in Eritrea and includes members of the Islamic Courts Union , which controlled much of Somalia in 2006 before being ousted by government and Ethiopian troops .
Fighting between insurgents and pro-government forces has killed thousands of Somalis in the year-and-a-half since .
Somalia has endured 17 years of chaos and conflict since the fall of the last stable government .
An American museum that wants to honor a Cuban scientist says it is frustrated the U.S. government denied the scientist a visa to come and pick up his award .
A spokesman for the Tech Museum of Innovation , in San Jose , California , said the museum had wanted the federal government to grant a visa to Vicente Verez Bencomo for the Wednesday ceremony .
The Miami Herald newspaper quoted the spokesman as saying Mr. Verez-Bencomo had been allowed entry as recently as March .
The U.S. State Department has declined to comment .
Mr. Verez-Bencomo was one of a number of scientists being honored for innovations that use technology to benefit mankind .
He helped develop a low-cost vaccine that fights the bacteria causing pneumonia and meningitis , diseases which kill some 700,000 children each year .
The BBC says it may start to filter out the sound of vuvuzelas from its World Cup broadcasts , following complaints about the incessant drone .
The BBC said Tuesday it had received 545 complaints from viewers , forcing officials to look into options to reduce the noise from the plastic trumpets .
One option would be to offer an electronic filter that reduces most of the ambient noise while maintaining the game commentary .
Football coaches , players and reporters have all complained about the constant din generated by thousands of vuvuzelas at the stadiums .
However , FIFA officials say the horns are a South African tradition and will not be banned .
British insurance company Prudential says it will buy the Asian unit of U.S. insurer AIG for $ 35 billion , allowing AIG to repay some of the money it owes U.S. taxpayers .
Prudential announced its proposed takeover of AIG 's AIA Group Monday , saying the deal will make the British company the largest insurer in Southeast Asia .
Prudential says AIG will get $ 25 billion in cash and $ 10 billion in new Prudential shares in return for AIA .
The deal is subject to approval by shareholders and regulators .
AIG says it will use the funds to repay some of the $ 180 billion it received in a U.S. government bailout in 2008 during the height of the global financial crisis .
Prudential already has a significant presence in Asia 's insurance market .
Its chief executive Tidjane Thiam said Monday he sees Asia as the " engine " of the group 's future growth .
Hundreds of Pakistani women have gathered in the capital , Islamabad , to denounce President Pervez Musharraf 's reported remarks about rape victims in the country , and to demand his apology .
The participants condemned the comments published in the Washington Post , in which General Musharraf said that many Pakistanis believe crying rape is an easy way to get a visa to go abroad and make money .
The Pakistani leader insists he was misquoted and was only expressing a commonly held opinion in Pakistan , not his own .
But the women activists say he should have been careful in choosing his words about rape victims .
Pakistani human rights groups have also been protesting the so-called " honor killings " of women in the country .
The groups say hundreds of women are killed every year in Pakistan in the name of family honor after they are accused of having affairs .
Health officials in India have reported the country 's first death from the H1N1 swine flu virus .
Officials quoted in media reports say the victim was a 14-year-old girl in the western city of Pune .
India has reported hundreds of cases of swine flu but Monday 's reported death is the country 's first .
The World Health Organization has declared the swine flu virus a pandemic .
Since late July , The WHO reports 134,503 cases of swine flu worldwide and 816 deaths .
Health experts say the majority of patients infected with the virus recover fully within a week , even without any medical treatment .
Typhoon Utor is whipping across the central Philippines , killing at least three people and forcing 70,000 residents from their homes .
Evacuees huddled in makeshift emergency shelters Sunday as the typhoon toppled power lines across the island nation with winds of 120 kilometers an hour .
Authorities are urging villagers on the western island of Mindoro to head to higher ground to avoid possible flash floods and large waves .
Authorities ordered the mass evacuation from Albay province to prevent a repeat of the disaster that struck just over a week ago when another typhoon triggered mudslides on Mayon Volcano .
The massive sludge covered entire villages , leaving at least 1,300 people dead or missing .
The Smithsonian Institution has decided to build a national museum of African American history on the National Mall in Washington , D.C. , near the Washington Monument .
The Institution 's Board of Regents , which oversees a complex of national museums and research centers , chose the site in a voice vote late Monday .
This new museum will be housed in a 31,500 square-meter building on the two-hectare site , a prime location for visitors because of its proximity to the Washington Monument and the White House .
The National Museum of African American History and Culture will tell the story of black Americans from slavery through civil rights .
Officials at the Smithsonian hope to complete construction of the building by 2016 .
Military officials in Nepal say 11 Maoist rebels and two soldiers were killed during fighting at an army camp in eastern Nepal .
Officials say the rebels attacked the army camp , located 400 kilometers east of the capital , Kathmandu , late Friday .
Maoist rebels have carried out a series of attacks across Nepal since ending their four-month , unilateral cease-fire on January 2 .
They have been fighting to overthrow the constitutional monarchy and replace it with a communist state since 1996 .
At least 12,000 people have died in the fighting .
Nepal 's King Gyanendra took absolute control of the country nearly a year ago .
A well-known U.S. consumer group is calling for a ban on some of the most widely-used dyes in food products sold in the United States and elsewhere .
The Center for Science in the Public Interest says there is evidence that these dyes are harmful for children .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
Ivory Coast 's officials say presidential elections will be held on October 30 as part of the effort to reunify the West African nation that has been divided since a rebel uprising in September 2002 .
The announcement Thursday is seen as a major step toward implementing a peace deal signed earlier this month in South Africa .
On Tuesday , Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo announced that Alassane Ouattara , a formerly excluded opposition leader , would be allowed to run in the election .
The popular northern leader was barred from earlier elections because of questions over his citizenship .
Mr. Ouattara 's candidacy has been a key demand by northern rebels who control half of the country .
Thursday , Mr. Ouattara who lives in self-imposed exile in France , praised Mr. Gabgbo 's decision and said he will return to Ivory Coast soon .
Sudan is expelling the country directors for two foreign aid groups , accusing them of violating a ban on engaging in political activities .
The British charities Oxfam and Save the Children received letters warning of the expulsion orders , and said they plan to follow up with Sudan 's government .
The United Nations is pressing Khartoum to reverse the orders , saying the aid groups play a key role in helping victims of fighting in western Sudan .
Sudan 's government has criticized the groups for issuing statements which it says indicate support for the rebels in the western Darfur region .
It also rejected a Save the Children press release that accused Sudanese troops of bombing a site near a refugee camp in the town of Tawilla earlier this month .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has signed several agreements during his visit to Spain to improve relations and trade between the two countries .
Mr. Hu and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero signed a document Monday making Spain a privileged partner in economic and political dealings .
China has similar deals with Britain , France and Germany .
Spain and China also reached an extradition accord .
But Spain , in accordance with European Union policy , will not send back suspects who could face the death penalty in Spain .
During his visit to Spain , Mr. Hu also met with King Juan Carlos .
Spain is the last stop on Mr. Hu 's European tour , which also brought him to Germany and Britain .
Demonstrators protesting Chinese policies on human rights and Tibet have followed Mr. Hu throughout his trip .
A suicide car bomber in the Iraqi capital has struck a convoy carrying an elite Iraqi police unit , killing at least nine people , most of them anti-terror commandos .
Authorities say at least 10 others were wounded in the attack .
The bombing followed clashes overnight in Baghdad between U.S. troops and militiamen loyal to Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
Coalition authorities say U.S. troops killed at least eight militiamen and wounded five others , as they sought to detain a group of fighters suspected of carrying out guerrilla attacks .
Elsewhere in Baghdad , police say gunmen raided a convoy of armored vehicles , killing two guards and stealing $ 850,000 .
To the south , a bomber on a bicycle blew himself up in a crowded market in Hilla , killing at least one other person and wounding dozens of others .
Two French journalists who were held hostage in Iraq for four months have arrived back in France .
Joyful relatives tearfully greeted the men - Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot - upon their arrival at an air base outside Paris Wednesday .
French President Jacques Chirac cut short a vacation in Morocco to be on hand for the arrival .
French officials have said no ransom was paid for the release , which came Tuesday .
The journalists were abducted while traveling to Najaf August 20 .
They were held by a group calling itself the Islamic Army of Iraq , which has previously killed hostages .
A U.S. government report says the country 's trade deficit rose to an all-time high of $ 60.3 billion in November .
The Commerce Department says the trade gap grew nearly eight percent from the previous record of $ 56 billion in October .
The department says the unexpected increase reflected record levels for imports of oil and consumer goods , while exports fell .
The trade deficit through November totaled $ 561 billion , which exceeds the record for all of 2003 .
The Associated Press quotes U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow as saying the trade gap reflects the fact that Americans are becoming more prosperous .
Zimbabwe 's main opposition group appears to be split over whether to participate in elections next month for a newly created upper house of parliament .
The leader of the Movement for Democratic Change , Morgan Tsvangirai , announced Wednesday that the party had decided to boycott the November 26 poll .
But later in the day , MDC spokesman Paul Themba-Nyathi said a majority of the party 's national council had voted in favor of participating .
Lawmakers approved the newly created Senate in August as part of a package of constitutional reforms proposed by President Robert Mugabe .
The opposition has strongly objected to the creation of the new upper house , calling it a ploy by the ruling party to cement its grip on power .
Kiefer Sutherland was arrested early Tuesday on misdemeanor drunk driving charges after reportedly failing a field sobriety test .
Officer Kevin Maiberger says the 40-year-old star of the TV series 24 was pulled over at about 1:10 a.m. in West Los Angeles after officers spotted him making an illegal U-Turn .
Officer Karen Smith says Sutherland tested over California 's legal blood alcohol limit of .08 percent , and was arrested on a misdmeanor charge of driving under the influence .
Sheriff 's Department records indicate he was released around 4:00 a.m. after posting $ 25,000 bail .
Maiberger says Sutherland faces an October 16 court date .
Keifer Sutherland last year won a best actor Emmy Award for his starring role in the FOX series 24 .
The series is set to return to the air in January .
Somalia 's prime minister has ordered all aid agencies operating in the country to register with the government or leave .
A spokesman for the prime minister , Abdulkadir Walayo , said the government will protect aid workers who register , but said it will not be liable for the safety of those who fail to sign up .
Kidnappings of foreign aid workers by armed groups are frequent in Somalia .
The spokesman did not provide details on what registration would involve and had no specifics on how the Somali government planned to provide security for registered aid organizations .
The government controls very little of the countryside where humanitarian agencies do most of their work .
The hardline al-Shabab militant group and related Islamic groups control much of the country after a two year long insurgency .
Colombia 's second-largest rebel group has accepted an offer from neighboring Venezuela to facilitate peace talks between the guerrillas and the Colombian government .
The National Liberation Army , the ELN , said in a statement dated September 16 but released Friday , that it accepts the offer from Venezuela 's government and people .
There was no immediate comment from officials in Bogota , but the government of Colombian President Alvaro Uribe has shown an interest in opening talks with the ELN .
Earlier this month , Colombia agreed to temporarily release jailed ELN rebel leader Francisco Galan to allow him to negotiate with civil society leaders about launching talks with the Uribe government .
The ELN and a larger rebel group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , are mired in a long-running civil war that also involves rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Japanese officials have lifted the tsunami warning they issued for the nation 's Pacific coastline after strong earthquakes struck the Kuril Islands northeast of Japan earlier Wednesday .
Earthquake monitoring agencies recorded a quake with a magnitude of at least 7.8 followed by three tremors with magnitudes of 6 or higher .
Japanese officials advised people in Pacific coastal areas to flee to higher ground , but only minimal waves were reported in northern Japan .
The Japanese Meteorological agency warns other waves still could follow and urged continued caution .
Strong earthquakes have the potential to generate a destructive wave that can strike coastlines near the epicenter within minutes of the quake .
Afghan officials say police have killed six Taliban insurgents , including a militant-appointed provincial governor , during a clash in western Afghanistan .
The interior ministry says the fighting erupted Thursday in the western province of Ghor .
A ministry statement says a militant police chief and a Taliban-appointed governor of Ghor were among those killed in the clash .
A police official says at least two police officers and a civilian were wounded in the fighting .
Afghan , NATO and U.S. troops are fighting a resurgent Taliban and other rebels who have strongholds in the southern and eastern parts of the country .
In some areas , the Taliban have appointed and run their own parallel administration .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is in Iran Saturday to meet with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and top officials .
Iran 's state-owned media report the leaders are expected to discuss instability in Iraq , the crisis in Lebanon and ways to strengthen bilateral ties .
State-run news agency IRNA says the Syrian president is also scheduled to meet with Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei during the two-day visit .
Syria and Iran are close regional allies .
Washington accuses the two countries of fomenting tension in Iraq by allowing insurgents to enter Iraq and then aiding them .
Syria is a firm supporter of Iran 's nuclear program , which the United States says is aimed at building atomic weapons .
Iran says the program is solely for peaceful purposes .
Asian stock markets were mostly lower in trading Monday .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index lost 85 points , to finish at 13.857 .
Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index gained 27 points , to end at 22.772 .
Elsewhere , share prices were lower in Shanghai , Singapore and Taipei .
Stocks closed slightly higher in Wellington .
The dollar was selling at 107.41 yen in Tokyo currency trading , up from 107.25 yen late Friday in New York .
The Israeli military says it will complete its withdrawal from the Gaza Strip by September 15 , but warned it will strike the territory hard if Israel comes under attack .
The warning came as Palestinian militants on Saturday reaffirmed their plan to resist disarmament , a key to peace efforts between the Israelis and Palestinians .
In a direct challenge to the Palestinian leadership , Hamas ' secretive military wing has emerged from hiding and posted information about its command structure on its Web site .
For the first time , the group has identified its leadership , including the commander of the Ezzedine al-Qassem Brigade military wing , Mohammed Deif .
In an interview posted on the Web site , the elusive commander warned the Palestinian leadership not to contemplate any move to disarm the militants .
Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has been charged with tax evasion and corruption related to multi-million-dollar bank accounts he allegedly opened in the United States and other countries .
Court officials in Santiago say General Pinochet , who will be 90 on Friday , has been placed under house arrest .
Judge Carlos Cerda has questioned the former dictator three times during the past two weeks over some $ 27 million prosecutors allege he hid in foreign accounts .
The general 's wife and youngest son have been indicted as accomplices .
General Pinochet also faces charges in the disappearances and deaths of 119 leftist opponents in 1975 and is suspected of involvement in hundreds of other deaths while he was in power from 1973 - 1990 .
Three Iraqi men have gone on trial in Stuttgart , Germany , suspected of plotting an assassination attempt against former Iraqi Prime Minister Iyad Allawi in 2004 .
The three men are being tried on charges of conspiracy and membership in Ansar al-Islam , an Islamic militant group that U.S. authorities have linked to al-Qaida .
They were arrested in Germany after police intercepted phone calls during which they allegedly plotted an attack on Mr. Allawi during his visit to Berlin in December 2004 .
Mr. Allawi changed his travel plans after the alleged plot was uncovered .
Police say two of the men also are believed to have collected funds for Ansar al-Islam and recruited members to the group .
In a separate case , two other men are being tried in Munich for allegedly providing logistical and financial aid to Ansar al-Islam .
Riot police in Santiago , Chile have fired tear gas and water cannon at hundreds of students protesting President Bush 's arrival later this week at an economic summit in the Chilean capital .
Street clashes erupted Wednesday , just before foreign and trade ministers from the 21-member Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation ( APEC ) opened two days of talks on free trade and other issues .
Police arrested dozens of demonstrators protesting the U.S.-led war in Iraq and globalization , which they say widens the gap between rich and poor nations .
No injuries were reported .
In addition to President Bush , outgoing U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell , Chinese President Hu Jintao and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi will attend the talks , which take place this Saturday and Sunday .
The Turkish man who tried to assassinate Pope John Paul in 1981 has asked Turkish authorities to briefly allow him out of prison to attend the pope 's funeral .
Mehmet Ali Agca 's lawyer Mustafa Demirbag said Tuesday that he has applied to the Justice Ministry for a short compassionate leave .
On Sunday , Agca said from his Istanbul jail cell that he had lost , in his words , his " spiritual brother " and was grief stricken over the pontiff 's death .
Agca gravely wounded John Paul in the 1981 shooting in Saint Peter 's Square .
Two years later , the pope visited Agca in the Italian prison where he served 19 years and forgave him .
In 2000 , Agca was extradited to Istanbul where he is serving out a 17-year sentence for earlier crimes committed in Turkey .
Royal Dutch-Shell Group says it will pour $ 600 million into the development of an onshore gas field in China .
The project represents a major foreign investment into China 's natural gas sector .
Shell officials tell the Wall Street Journal they will spend the money over the next couple of years to develop and operate the field in Changbei .
Natural gas will then be distributed to Beijing , Tianjin , Hebei and Shandong .
The field is expected to begin production in 2007 through a pipeline that is being built by PetroChina .
Shell officials tell the Wall Street Journal plans for the project have already been submitted to the Chinese authorities for approval .
An Uzbek human rights group says authorities there executed a prisoner last month , despite a United Nations appeal to suspend the death penalty because of torture concerns .
The head of the group " Mothers Against Execution and Torture , " Tamara Chikunova , says the 25-year-old prisoner Akhrorkhodzha Tolipkhodzhayev was executed by a firing squad after being found guilty of murdering two teenagers .
Ms. Chikunova says there was evidence that the man 's charges were not proven at the trial , and that his confession was extracted under torture .
Uzbekistan 's autocratic government has long been accused of human rights abuses , including torture in detention centers and prisons .
Amnesty International said recently that at least 6,000 political prisoners , including dozens of women , are being held in degrading conditions in Uzbekistan .
Camel racers in the United Arab Emirates are experimenting with robots now that it is no longer legal to use small boys as jockeys .
The UAE has instituted new regulations as of March 31 , which forbid boys younger than 16 years of age or lighter than 45 kilograms from being jockeys .
Human rights groups had called the former practice of using underage jockeys a form of slavery .
The groups say boys , some as young as four , were kept in prison-like conditions and underfed to keep their weight down .
A prototype of a new robotic jockey was tested Saturday .
The first production robots should be assembled by August , in time for the beginning of the next camel racing season .
Police say a former U.S. presidential aide whose body was found in a landfill in the northeastern U.S. state of Delaware was murdered .
Authorities announced Monday that they found the body of John Wheeler at a Wilmington , Delaware landfill on New Year 's Eve .
They said his body was spotted as a trash truck was emptying its load into the landfill .
Police have asked the public for tips on Wheeler 's whereabouts prior to his death .
He was last seen Tuesday , exiting a train from Washington , D.C. to Wilmington .
Wheeler served in the Vietnam War and later was one of the principal backers of a controversial drive for a Vietnam War memorial in Washington , D.C.
Wheeler served in the Pentagon under four presidents .
He created a Vietnam War veterans ' leadership program for President Ronald Reagan and later an environmental conservation group for at-risk youth under President George W. Bush .
Firefighters battling a fast moving wildfire in southern California say the blaze is now about 40 percent contained , and should be fully under control by Tuesday .
When the fire began Saturday in the beach community of Malibu , strong winds and high temperatures helped spread the flames rapidly , forcing more than 10,000 people to leave their homes .
Los Angeles County fire officials say the blaze has destroyed nearly 50 homes and scorched about 2,000 hectares of land .
At least 500 firefighters are working to contain the flames , aided by water drops from 10 helicopters and other aircraft .
Last month , 24 fires in southern California burned through nearly 200,000 hectares and destroyed 2,000 homes .
Askar Akayev Kyrgyzstan 's parliament has voted to strip ousted President Askar Akayev of many of his special privileges .
Lawmakers meeting Friday voted almost unanimously to repeal legislation that would allow the former leader to participate in government and parliament sessions .
The lawmakers held off , however , a discussion of Mr. Akayev 's resignation .
Although the ousted leader submitted his resignation Monday it will not be valid until parliament votes to accept it .
Such a vote would legitimize the country 's new authorities and clear the way for new presidential elections .
Mr. Akayev fled Kyrgyzstan on March 24 after protesters stormed his office and the opposition seized power .
Meanwhile , 500 protestors in the southern part of the country ended a three-day occupation of a regional governor 's administrative offices in Naryn .
The activists were demanding the reversal of a court decision that annulled the new prime minister 's win in parliamentary elections .
Iraq has agreed to resume imports of Australian wheat as long as they are not handled by the monopoly wheat exporter at the center of a bribery investigation .
The Australian government is investigating whether A.W.B Limited paid about $ 220 million to secure more than two billion dollars in wheat contracts with Saddam Hussein 's government .
Earlier this month , the Iraqi Grain Board suspended its relationship with A.W.B. .
Australian Trade Minister Mark Vaile made an emergency trip to Iraq last week to discuss the suspension .
Vaile told ABC radio Monday that the new agreement with Iraq is something that has to be worked out with the industry and with growers .
Prime Minister John Howard has rejected accusations that his government knew about the kickbacks .
The British government is planning to send an additional 220 soldiers to Iraq to help replace Dutch troops who are leaving the country later this year .
Defense Minister Geoff Hoon made the announcement Thursday .
The Dutch government is to pull its 1,400 troops out of Iraq on March 15 .
Mr. Hoon says Britain will deploy 600 of its soldiers to provide stability in the area of southern Iraq evacuated by the Dutch .
He said the 220 additional British troops will supplement Iraqi forces and provide them with logistics and other " essential support . "
Mr. Hoon said British troops will also support Iraqi security forces in the run-up to Sunday 's general elections and help protect Japanese troops who are engaged in construction projects .
About 9,000 British troops are deployed in Iraq , concentrated in the southern provinces around Basra .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says it is a " complete obscenity " for terrorists to try to justify their actions .
Mr. Blair was referring to a videotape aired Thursday of al-Qaida 's second in command , Ayman al-Zawahiri , who said Britain and the United States would face more deaths unless they pull out of Iraq .
The prime minister charged that those responsible for the video support the killing of innocent people in Iraq , Afghanistan and anywhere that people want to live under the rules of democracy .
The al-Zawahiri video aired on the Arab satellite channel al-Jazeera .
Indonesian Muslim protesters display big banner saying Save Al Aqsa Mosque during anti-Israel protest in Jakarta Thousands of Muslims across Indonesia staged peaceful anti-Israel protests Sunday , including a major demonstration at the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta .
As many as 10,000 protesters from the Prosperous Justice Party shouted anti-American slogans outside the heavily guarded embassy in the Indonesian capital .
Speakers lashed out at Israel and demanded Washington stop financial and political support for the Jewish state .
Traffic in the center of the city was disrupted for several hours .
Party members held smaller protests in at least three other cities across the world 's most populous Muslim nation .
Indonesia does not have diplomatic relations with Israel , and there are periodic street protests in the country against the Jewish state and against the U.S. war on terrorism .
During the 17th century , the archipelago was divided into two territorial units , one English and the other Danish .
Sugarcane , produced by slave labor , drove the islands ' economy during the 18th and early 19th centuries .
In 1917 , the US purchased the Danish portion , which had been in economic decline since the abolition of slavery in 1848 .
Venezuela has agreed to delay its planned suspension of some U.S. flights to allow talks with the affected airlines .
In a statement , the Venezuelan aviation ministry said the restrictions , set to take effect on Wednesday , will now be postponed until March 30 .
It added that officials met Friday with representatives from several U.S. airlines , and said more talks are expected in coming days .
U.S. officials have said the suspension of flights would violate a 50-year-old aviation deal between the nations .
They expressed hope that talks will help resolve the dispute .
Venezuelan officials announced the ban last week in response to U.S. restrictions placed on Venezuelan planes 10-years-ago because of security concerns .
They say the United States has failed to acknowledge security improvements taken by Venezuelan companies in recent years .
Niger 's electoral commission has postponed local and regional elections scheduled for Saturday by three days , citing logistical problems .
Niger 's electoral commission says the country will now hold its municipal and regional elections on Tuesday , instead of Saturday as planned .
Electoral commission president , Abdouramane Goushmane says the commission postponed the elections after it realized that all of the ballots would not be ready in time for the poll Saturday .
The local and regional polls are the first in a series of a elections this month meant to return the country to civilian rule after a military coup in February 2010 .
Goushmane said this postponement will not affect the timing of legislative elections and a presidential poll planned for January 31 .
Niger has been under military rule since February , when the army overthrew the country 's increasingly unpopular leader , President Mamadou Tandja .
The military promised elections within the year .
The new constitution , voted on by referendum in October , gives the army until April 6 to restore civilian rule .
A Spanish military hospital ship Wednesday picked up the bodies of 24 migrants in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Mauritania .
The bodies were floating about 720 kilometers south of Spain 's Canary Islands .
Authorities believe they were North Africans who drowned while trying to reach Spain .
The bodies were found one day after more than 330 migrants reached the islands in several boats - a single-day record for the Canaries .
A delegation of Spanish officials plans to fly to Mauritania Thursday to discuss the migrant situation .
Spain has already offered the west African nation patrol boats to intercept would-be immigrants .
Spanish officials say about 3,000 North Africans have reached the Canary Islands in the first three months of the year .
The Red Cross says more than 1,000 died trying .
Police in northwestern Pakistan say a suicide bomber detonated an explosives -filled car at a security post Tuesday , killing a Pakistani soldier and wounding at least seven others .
Authorities say the attack occurred in the town of Doaba in Hangu district .
Pakistan 's northwestern tribal areas are considered to be Taliban and al-Qaida militant strongholds .
Elsewhere in the northwest , officials say two rockets landed near the runway of Peshawar airport before dawn Tuesday .
Reports of damage varied , from slight to none at all .
European Union foreign ministers are gathered in Brussels ahead of a meeting where heads of state and government are expected to endorse new security initiatives and hold talks on the new EU treaty .
An EU statement says the ministers are to discuss the Middle East peace process , the Democratic Republic of Congo , and prospects for boosting political dialogue between the union and Israel .
They also are expected to discuss international security issues .
Before the summit on Thursday and Friday , EU foreign ministers are also holding talks on the eventual accession of Macedonia into the union and discussing the situation in the Western Balkans and Pakistan .
A team of Hubble Telescope astronomers has announced the discovery of infant stars in a galaxy neighboring the Milky Way .
The stars were found in the Small Magellanic Cloud , a fragmentary galaxy some 200,000 light years from earth used by scientists as a laboratory to study how stars are born .
Astronomers say Hubble has taken images of a large number of infant stars still forming from collapsing gas clouds , and say the youngest of these is only half the mass of our sun .
Though star birth is common in Earth 's own galaxy , scientists say the young star is unusual because it lacks many of the elements it needs to fuel itself .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has made another verbal attack on British Prime Minister Tony Blair , saying he should return the Falkland Islands to Argentina .
Mr. Chavez has strongly criticized the British leader for saying that Venezuela should respect the rules of the international community .
Mr. Blair made the comment Wednesday in the British parliament .
Mr. Chavez said Thursday it was Britain that has violated international law by joining the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
He also accused Britain of " stealing " the Falkland Islands from Argentina , and called on Mr. Blair to give them back .
Argentina claims sovereignty over the Falkland Islands , and invaded the territory in 1982 , triggering a three-month war with Britain in which hundreds were killed on both sides .
Britain repelled the invasion , and continues to control the island chain .
President Bush has restated the message he delivered to the United Nations General Assembly earlier this week , a call to support moderates and reformers in the Middle East .
In his weekly Saturday radio address , Mr. Bush said the alternative is to yield the future to terrorists and extremists .
Mr. Bush noted that while he was in New York this week , he met with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
He said that by supporting moderate leaders like Mr. Abbas , the United States can help Palestinians and Israelis achieve peace in the Middle East .
The president said he plans to meet next week with the presidents of Pakistan and Afghanistan to discuss the fight against terrorism in their region .
The United Nations Tribunal in The Hague has released its indictment against former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj , charging him with 37 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity .
The indictment , unsealed Thursday , charges Mr. Haradinaj and two other former Kosovo ethnic Albanian guerilla leaders with murder , rape , deportation and other offenses .
The two other men , Idriz Balaj and Lahi Brahimaj , face 35 counts each of war crimes and crimes against humanity .
Hague prosecutors say Mr. Haradinaj and the two other men , whom the indictment describes as his wartime subordinates , persecuted , mistreated and killed ethnic Serbs in 1998 .
The alleged offenses took place during the conflict between ethnic Albanian guerrillas and Serbian and Yugoslav forces in Kosovo .
The three men gave themselves up to the court Wednesday , one day after Mr. Haradinaj resigned as Kosovo prime minister .
A U.S. soldier has pleaded guilty to murdering a wounded 16-year-old Iraqi boy .
Staff Sergeant Johnny Horne was convicted Friday of the unpremeditated murder of the civilian youth in Baghdad 's Sadr City district in August .
The sergeant was one of several soldiers who had found the wounded teenager in a burning garbage truck they had just fired on .
The youth had severe abdominal wounds and Horne said he decided to , in his words , " put him out of his misery " by shooting him in the head .
Two other soldiers are also implicated in the murder , but have yet to stand trial .
Under a plea bargain agreement , Horne faces a maximum of 10 years instead of the possibility of life in prison .
Fifteen people have been killed in the crash of an airplane belonging to Venezuela 's state-run airline , Conviasa .
Thirty-six others on board survived the accident in a steel mill yard in Bolivar state .
Steel mill workers helped pull the survivors from the smoking wreckage .
It is not clear what caused the crash , but officials say the pilot had radioed traffic controllers that something was wrong before the plane went down on the property of the state-run Sidor steel mill .
The aircraft , a twin-engine turboprop , was carrying 47 passengers and a crew of four .
It was flying from the Caribbean resort island of Margarita to the industrial city of Puerto Ordaz .
Bolivar 's state governor described the large number of survivors as " a miracle . "
And he called the steel mill workers " heroes " for assisting the survivors .
The Iraqi parliament has again failed to approve a law that would govern next year 's national elections .
Iraqi lawmakers say they will consider the bill again on Sunday .
Their repeated failure to reach a consensus on the controversial bill has raised doubts that the elections will take place as planned on January 16 .
The election commission chief , Faraj al-Haidari , had warned parliament that if it did not approve the bill this week , there would not be enough time to get ready for the vote .
Lawmakers can not agree on the voting guidelines for Kirkuk , an oil-rich province that is home to Kurdish , Arab and Turkmen communities .
Some parliamentarians support using current voter records for Kirkuk , which would favor Kurds .
Others have suggested using a voter registry dating back to 2004 , which would favor Arabs .
State media in China say authorities have stopped a toxic chemical slick from reaching the major southern metropolis of Guangzhou by closing a dam on the Bei River .
The China Daily newspaper reports Friday that government workers have lowered the gates of the Baishiyao dam to trap the cadmium spill .
The dam is about 100 kilometers north of Guangzhou , a densely populated city of about 10 million people .
A local government spokesman says the water quality south of the dam is safe .
Farther upstream , officials plan to dilute the cadmium by releasing nearly 400 billion liters of water from a reservoir into the Bei River .
The contamination of the river by a smelter in Guangdong province a week ago is China 's second major environmental incident in recent weeks .
Pakistani officials say pneumonia is spreading among children who survived the October earthquake that left more than three million people out in the cold .
They say hundreds of homeless people have contracted pneumonia in the quake-zone as the harsh Himalayan winter sets in .
The Himalayan region got its first harsh winter weather at the weekend with up to 20 centimeters of snow falling at some high altitudes and heavy rain in some lower areas , bringing relief operations to a halt .
Aid agencies are racing to ensure that survivors get adequate shelter and enough food to see them through the winter .
Relief workers say the fear is that disease could sweep through cold , poorly nourished survivors , causing a second wave of deaths .
Iran is loaning cash-strapped Cuba $ 26 Million .
The loan is part of a bilateral cooperation agreement between the two countries covering key areas such as banking , farming and biotechnology .
Cuba 's state-run newspaper Granma Friday reported details of the agreement .
The newspaper says Iran will offer Cuba assistance and equipment to help it fight the effects of a drought plaguing the eastern portion of the island .
In return , Havana will help Tehran build a biotechnology factory to produce hepatitis B vaccines and Cuban-engineered medicines to treat heart and kidney disease .
Iran 's official news agency IRNA hailed Iranian-Cuban relations , and said the agreement paves the way for further joint economic cooperation between the two nations .
The United States has accused Iran of running a secret nuclear weapons program , and has recently tightened a long-standing economic embargo on Cuba .
A majority of U.S. lawmakers say the revised economic bailout plan defeated Monday failed to address major concerns .
Lawmakers had modified President George Bush 's original $ 700 billion plan to rescue key financial institutions by adding more scrutiny and limits on dispersing the money .
The Congressional measure would have phased in funding , provided homeowners some protection and let them share in any profits of the financial firms receiving the money .
But even in its modified form , enough opposing members of Congress felt the bill was still flawed .
They said both the original bill and the defeated measure put the taxpayer at far too great a risk for the benefit of large corporations and did not address underlying economic problems .
Most members of Congress face verdict of voters during election day November 4 .
Negotiators from Iran and several European countries have resumed talks in Geneva on resolving the international standoff over Tehran 's nuclear program .
Iran insists it has the right to enrich uranium , which can be used in energy production and nuclear weapons .
Britain , France and Germany say Iran must permanently abandon such activities .
Iranian officials have said they will never agree to such a halt .
The latest round of confidential talks is scheduled to continue through Thursday .
Last week , diplomats at an International Atomic Energy Agency meeting in Vienna said Iran is building a system of underground tunnels to conceal and protect parts of its nuclear program .
The United States maintains Iran is trying to covertly develop nuclear weapons , but Tehran says its program is meant only to meet the country 's energy needs .
North Korea says it has asked the United Nations to end all humanitarian aid to the country by the end of the year .
But the U.N. World Food Program , which administers aid to Pyongyang , said it has received no word about such a move .
North Korea 's Deputy Foreign Minister Choe Su Hon announced Pyongyang 's intentions Thursday at U.N. headquarters .
He said his country made the decision because it has experienced improved food production and because countries such as the United States are politicizing humanitarian assistance .
The World Food Program says it has not been asked to leave North Korea , but that its operation there may change in the new year .
A spokesman said the organization expects to shift from humanitarian aid to funding development projects .
Details have not been finalized .
Authorities in South Korea say a person there has contracted bird flu but has no symptoms of the disease .
And in Japan , officials are investigating a possible outbreak at a chicken farm .
South Korean health officials said Thursday the person was infected during an outbreak of the potentially deadly H5N1 virus that hit poultry farms late last year .
In Japan , government officials at the Agriculture , Forestry and Fisheries Ministry told the Kyodo news agency that they are looking into what might be an outbreak of bird flu at a farm in Miyazaki Prefecture .
The farm feeds about 10,000 chickens .
It was not immediately clear how many birds may already have been infected or killed by the suspected virus .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide over the past three years - none in Japan or South Korea .
Amnesty International has reported to the United Nations that Brazil has scarcely improved its human rights record over the past decade .
The international human rights group Tuesday submitted a report to the U.N. Human Rights Committee in Geneva .
It expresses concern about continued high numbers of extra-judicial killings , the widespread use of torture , and attacks against human rights defenders by police officers in Brazil That U.N. committee is to begin Wednesday to conduct its own review of Brazil 's progress on human rights .
The Amnesty report says despite implementation of a National Human Rights Plan in 1996 and an anti-torture law in 1997 , Brazilian authorities continue to abuse their power , and that incidents of abuse often go unreported or unpunished .
It says frequent targets for such abuse include include poor black or mixed-race men who are suspected of a crime .
Thailand 's parliament has elected Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra to a second four-year term .
Mr. Thaksin received the votes of 377 lawmakers out of 500 in the parliament 's lower house during a televised vote Wednesday , making him the first democratically elected prime minister to hold a second term .
The 55-year-old prime minister led his Thai Rak Thai party to an overwhelming victory in last month 's general elections .
He says the focus of his second term will be coping with rising oil prices , bird flu , and the separatist insurgency in the Muslim-dominated south .
Mr. Thaksin and his government are expected to be sworn in on Monday .
U.S. Homeland Security officials have prepared a report listing 12 ways terrorists might attack the country and estimates of the death toll each attack might produce .
Existence of the unreleased document was first reported by the New York Times newspaper late Tuesday .
The Times says the scenarios include terrorists blowing up a chlorine tank , killing more than 17,000 people , and spreading pneumonic plague in public areas , killing 2500 .
In another scenario , terrorists would infect cattle with foot-and-mouth disease at several sites , resulting in financial losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars .
Homeland Security officials say the report was drawn up to help federal , state , and local officials develop preparedness plans .
The officials say there is no credible evidence that the attacks mentioned in the report are being planned .
In this small , landlocked economy , subsistence agriculture occupies approximately 70 % of the population .
The manufacturing sector has diversified since the mid-1980s .
Sugar and wood pulp were major foreign exchange earners ; however , the wood pulp producer closed in January 2010 , and sugar is now the main export earner .
In 2007 , the sugar industry increased efficiency and diversification efforts , in response to a 17 % decline in EU sugar prices .
Mining has declined in importance in recent years with only coal and quarry stone mines remaining active .
Surrounded by South Africa , except for a short border with Mozambique , Swaziland is heavily dependent on South Africa from which it receives more than nine-tenths of its imports and to which it sends 60 % of its exports .
Swaziland 's currency is pegged to the South African rand , subsuming Swaziland 's monetary policy to South Africa .
The government is heavily dependent on customs duties from the Southern African Customs Union ( SACU ) , and worker remittances from South Africa substantially supplement domestically earned income .
The government has also legislated that 30 % of local pension funds need to be invested in Swaziland , boosting demand for government bonds .
Customs revenues plummeted due to the global economic crisis and a drop in South African imports .
The resulting decline in revenue has pushed the country into a fiscal crisis .
The government has requested assistance from the IMF and from the African Development Bank .
With an estimated 40 % unemployment rate , Swaziland 's need to increase the number and size of small and medium enterprises and attract foreign direct investment is acute .
Overgrazing , soil depletion , drought , and floods persist as problems for the future .
More than one-fourth of the population needed emergency food aid in 2006 - 07 because of drought , and more than one-quarter of the adult population has been infected by HIV / AIDS .
In 1895 , military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to Japan .
Taiwan reverted to Chinese control after World War II .
Following the Communist victory on the mainland in 1949 , 2 million Nationalists fled to Taiwan and established a government using the 1947 constitution drawn up for all of China .
Over the next five decades , the ruling authorities gradually democratized and incorporated the local population within the governing structure .
In 2000 , Taiwan underwent its first peaceful transfer of power from the Nationalist to the Democratic Progressive Party .
Throughout this period , the island prospered and became one of East Asia 's economic " Tigers . "
The dominant political issues continue to be the relationship between Taiwan and China - specifically the question of Taiwan 's eventual status - as well as domestic political and economic reform .
Iraq 's president says he expects the country 's new constitution to be ready Sunday , one day ahead of schedule .
Jalal Talabani told reporters Saturday that the committee drafting the document had resolved several outstanding issues .
He said the delegates are working to reach agreement on the issues of federalism and the relationship between Islam and the state .
Some members of the 71-person drafting committee say most areas of disagreement have been resolved .
Meanwhile , a roadside bomb killed a U.S. soldier and wounded another in western Baghdad .
And residents near the western city of Ramadi are blaming U.S. troops for a shooting incident Friday outside a mosque that local officials say killed 15 people , eight of them children .
The U.S. military says its troops were not involved in any shooting in the area .
Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland , Botswana adopted its new name upon independence in 1966 .
Four decades of uninterrupted civilian leadership , progressive social policies , and significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic economies in Africa .
Mineral extraction , principally diamond mining , dominates economic activity , though tourism is a growing sector due to the country 's conservation practices and extensive nature preserves .
Botswana has one of the world 's highest known rates of HIV / AIDS infection , but also one of Africa 's most progressive and comprehensive programs for dealing with the disease .
The inhabitants of this tiny isolated economy exist on fishing , subsistence farming , handicrafts , and postage stamps .
The fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and vegetables , including citrus , sugarcane , watermelons , bananas , yams , and beans .
Bartering is an important part of the economy .
The major sources of revenue are the sale of postage stamps to collectors and the sale of handicrafts to passing ships .
In October 2004 , more than one-quarter of Pitcairn 's small labor force was arrested , putting the economy in a bind , since their services were required as lighter crew to load or unload passing ships .
I think the political correctness is getting ridiculous .
Today I overheard a little boy say he was going to go play a game of Cattle Management Specialists and Native Americans .
The European Commission says it plans to contribute $ 100 million in aid to help countries prevent the spread of bird flu .
EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Walder said Friday in Brussels the aid will be offered at next week 's bird flu conference in Beijing .
She noted that never before has an animal disease posed such a global threat .
Thursday , the World Bank said it had approved $ 500 million in aid to help fight bird flu .
The World Health Organization says samples of the deadly H5N1 strain taken from two bird flu victims in Turkey show a slight genetic change in the virus - a sign it may be mutating into a human flu virus that could kill millions .
Bird flu has killed three people in Turkey and 79 in East Asia since 2003 .
Mexico 's conservative ruling party says it will ask the Supreme Court to review Mexico City 's recent decision to allow first-trimester abortions in the capital .
City lawmakers approved the measure Tuesday on a 46 - 19 vote .
The move makes it legal to have an abortion within the first 12 weeks of pregnancy .
Elsewhere in Mexico , abortion is legal only in cases of rape , incest , or danger to the mother 's health .
Supporters , including Mexico 's liberal Party of the Democratic Revolution , say the new law will protect women from unsafe , illegal abortions .
But critics , including the Roman Catholic Church and President Felipe Calderon 's National Action Party , fear it is a step toward legalized abortion across Latin America .
Only Cuba and Guyana currently allow abortions , though Colombia is considering a law to allow the procedure .
France has indicated it would support referring Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions , if Tehran fails to meet its obligations for nuclear non-proliferation .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin , speaking at a United Nations summit of world leaders , did not mention Iran by name .
But he said such a referral for sanctions is " legitimate " once dialogue has been exhausted .
President Bush , in an address to the General Assembly , said countries that sponsor terrorism and pursue weapons of mass destruction must be sent a message that they will not be allowed to threaten world peace .
The United States accuses Iran of using its nuclear program to develop atomic weapons -- a charge Tehran has repeatedly denied .
Washington is pushing to have Iran referred to the Security Council .
The European Union has warned Iran to stop uranium processing and enrichment activities or face referral to the Security Council .
A top Venezuelan official says his country will fight drug trafficking without the help of the United States .
Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro said Tuesday that Venezuela is a sovereign nation that does not need what he described as " money from the devil . "
Maduro 's comments come after the release of President Bush 's budget , in which a request for aid for anti-drug efforts in Venezuela was eliminated .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez severed ties with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration in 2005 , claiming agents were involved in espionage .
The South American country is a major transit route for cocaine destined for the United States or Europe .
The Bush administration has expressed confidence in United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan , despite calls for his resignation from several U.S. lawmakers over a scandal involving the U.N.-administered oil-for-food program for Iraq .
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , John Danforth , said Thursday that President Bush has confidence in Mr. Annan , and dismissed speculation the administration was trying to push the Ghanaian diplomat out .
Mr. Danforth also stressed the importance of a U.S. investigation of the oil-for-food program , saying it would be the only way to - in his words - lift the cloud from the United Nations .
Several prominent Africans , including Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu , are defending the secretary-general .
The African statesmen are linking the calls for Mr. Annan 's resignation to his sharp differences with President Bush over the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
China 's foreign ministry says it plans to work closely with Russian officials to minimize the effects of pollution from a toxic chemicals slick moving along a major river toward Russia .
Russian environmental officials report an increase in the level of cancer-causing benzene in the Amur River .
But Russian authorities say it is not clear if it is from the Chinese chemical spill .
They say it could take several more days before the worst of the spill reaches Russian territory .
Meanwhile , a top United Nations official , Klaus Toepfer , told China 's Xinhua news agency Thursday that Beijing will allow U.N. officials to inspect the effects of the spill .
An explosion at a Chinese factory two weeks ago released 100 tons of poisonous chemicals into the Songhua river .
As they flow toward Russia , riverside cities are shutting down water systems to avoid contamination .
The United States has denied any rift between Washington and Seoul , after a South Korean official made a statement about North Korea that conflicts with the official U.S. position .
In Washington , a U.S. State Department spokesman emphasized Thursday that the ongoing six-party negotiations on North Korea 's nuclear program are complex .
He indicated that differences in opinion would naturally emerge from talks involving several parties .
In an interview earlier Thursday , South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-young said Pyongyang has a general right to pursue a civilian nuclear program .
Washington is firmly opposed to Pyongyang having any nuclear facilities whatsoever .
The six-party talks - involving China , Japan , Russia , the United States and the two Koreas - recessed Sunday after 13 days .
Negotiations are expected to resume the week of August 29 .
Iraqi Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani says an immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq would worsen the situation in the country .
Speaking at a news conference in Jordan Tuesday , Barzani said he supports a U.S. troop withdrawal , but only when Iraqi security forces and the government have the situation under control .
He said the situation in Iraq is tragic , but would get worse if U.S. troops are pulled out suddenly .
On Monday , Barzani held talks with Jordan 's King Abdullah , who reaffirmed his country 's support for efforts to secure reconciliation between Iraq 's rival groups .
Barzani is president of the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq .
A suicide car bomber has killed four U.S. soldiers outside Baghdad , as coalition forces continue their offensive against insurgents near Syria 's border .
Military officials said the four soldiers were killed in a suicide attack on a checkpoint south of the Iraqi capital Monday .
Meanwhile , coalition forces battled insurgents for a third day in the Iraqi border town of Husaybah , where officials say one Marine and 36 insurgents have died .
Officials say coalition forces have encountered frequent attacks by snipers and discovered homemade bombs in the area .
There are no reports of civilian casualties in the operation aimed at stopping the flow of weapons and foreign fighters from Syria .
Near Baghdad , separate attacks killed 13 people , including six Iraqi police officers .
Former Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee has announced his retirement from politics .
The former prime minister made the surprise announcement in Mumbai Thursday at a rally celebrating his Hindu nationalist Bhartiya Janata Party 's 25-year existence .
Mr. Vajpayee stepped down as prime minister in May after the BJP was defeated in national elections in May , 2004 .
The May election prevented Mr. Vajpayee from serving a fourth term as India 's prime minister .
He served as prime minister from 1999 to 2004 and briefly in 1996 and 1998 .
Mr. Vajpayee 's tenure saw India conduct nuclear tests , make strides toward peace with Pakistan and achieve major economic progress .
John Garang
The Sudan People 's Liberation Movement says funeral services for its late political leader , Sudanese Vice President John Garang , will be held in Juba , the planned capital of an autonomous southern Sudan .
It is unclear when the funeral will be held .
Mr. Garang 's political party says the body of the former rebel leader , who died Saturday evening in a helicopter crash , is lying at New Site in Southern Sudan .
Sudan 's government on Monday declared a night curfew in the capital , Khartoum , to prevent riots that erupted following news of his death .
At least 36 people were killed in the violence .
Mr. Garang was a key figure in the peace accord reached this year between the Sudanese government and southern rebels to end a 21-year civil war .
Sudanese President Omar el-Bashir and General Salva Kiir Mayardit , who was named by the SPLM to succeed Mr. Garang , have stressed that his death will not stop the peace movement .
Up to two million people evacuated the city of New Orleans and surrounding areas in advance of Hurricane Gustav , which was not nearly as severe as Hurricane Katrina three years earlier .
VOA 's Barry Wood in New Orleans tells us about a French Quarter hotel that for traveling journalists provided welcome shelter from the storm .
A top U.S. general says the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is presenting challenges to the U.S. ability to advance its interests in the Middle East .
General David Petraeus , head of the U.S. Central Command , says the conflict foments anti-American sentiment in the region due to a perception of U.S. favoritism toward Israel .
The U.S. Central Command oversees American forces in the Middle East and Central Asia .
Petraeus 's comments to a Senate committee Tuesday came amid a U.S.-Israeli dispute about Israel 's plan to build 1,600 more housing units in disputed East Jerusalem .
Peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians have been stalled for more than a year primarily because of the construction of Jewish settlements .
The U.S. Senate committee considering the nomination of federal Judge Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court will vote on the matter next week .
The Senate Judiciary Committee was scheduled to hold a final vote on Mr. Alito 's nomination Tuesday , but opposition Democrats demanded a one-week delay - a move that angered Republicans .
Democrats are under pressure to delay the vote as long as possible to build public opposition to Mr. Alito 's nomination .
Liberal interest groups are concerned his presence could tilt the court in a more conservative direction .
Mr. Alito managed to withstand two days of tough questioning from Democrats , and observers say he will easily be confirmed in the Republican-controlled Senate .
The European Union is hopeful U.S. President Barack Obama 's message to Iran can help thaw relations between Tehran and much of the world .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said in Brussels Friday that the broadcast appeal could help open " a new chapter " for relations with Iran .
Solana also called Mr. Obama 's attempt to reach out to Iran constructive .
Like the United States , the EU accuses Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons and has imposed a series of sanctions on Tehran .
Last month , German Chancellor Angela Merkel threatened to impose additional sanctions on Iran if talks do not work .
The United Nations Human Rights Council has ordered a commission of inquiry to investigate alleged abuses by Israel in its campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon .
Council members Friday voted 27-11 in support of the inquiry at a special session in Geneva .
The 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference requested the session and proposed the resolution that singled out Israel for condemnation and avoided any criticism of Hezbollah .
Earlier Friday , the U.N. human rights chief urged the Council to take account of Hezbollah 's actions - in addition to Israel .
Louise Arbour said Israeli attacks affecting civilians continue unabated , but she also deplored Hezbollah 's " indiscriminate shelling of densely populated centers in northern Israel . "
And she noted repeated allegations of Hezbollah 's use of human shields .
Authorities in Pakistan say unidentified gunmen killed seven people near the Afghan border Thursday .
They say the gunmen opened fire on a vehicle carrying the men near the town of Wana , in the remote tribal region of South Waziristan .
It was not clear who the victims were .
Pakistan has thousands of troops deployed in the region to hunt for al-Qaida and Taleban fighters .
The British government reports that more than 400,000 workers from Eastern Europe have come to work in Britain since 10 new members joined the European Union in 2004 .
Figures published by the British Home Office Tuesday show the government admitted 427,000 workers from the 80 formerly communist-ruled new EU member nations .
If self-employed workers are included , that figure may be as high as 600,000 .
Poles make up the majority of the registered immigrant workers in Britain , followed by Lithuanians and Slovaks .
Poland has the bloc 's highest unemployment rate .
The immigration figures have triggered debate in Britain over foreign labor .
Some politicians have called for additional restrictions on immigration ahead of the EU decision whether to admit Bulgaria and Romania in 2007 .
The countries that gained EU membership in 2004 are Cyprus , the Czech Republic , Estonia , Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Malta , Poland , Slovakia and Slovenia .
A study by the South African Medical Research Council has found that women in abusive relationships are more likely to become infected with HIV .
Researchers say that South African women in unequal relationships had a higher rate of HIV infection compared to women who had more equality in their relationships .
Researchers also say that addressing inequalities in relationships could prevent nearly 14 percent of new HIV infections .
Nearly 12 percent of new infections could be prevented if women were not physically or sexually abused by their partners .
The South African Medical Research Council is calling on the World Health Organization and other groups to develop and widely implement policies and programs that build gender equality and prevent domestic violence .
The White House says U.S. President George Bush will travel to Europe next month to strengthen the trans-Atlantic partnership between the U.S. and European nations .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino Tuesday said the eight-day trip , beginning June 9 will include stops in Britain , France , Italy , Germany , Slovenia , and the Vatican .
Mr. Bush is scheduled to attend an annual summit between the European Union and the United States , being held this year on June 10 in Slovenia .
Mr. Bush , along with his wife Laura Bush , will also celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Marshall Plan , which provided U.S. reconstruction aid to Europe after World War II .
They also will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Berlin Airlift , a U.S. operation to bring much-needed supplies into the western half of the divided German city , which was cut off by a Soviet blockade .
Uganda says it will send an additional 250 soldiers to Somalia to train forces loyal to the Somali interim government .
Ugandan defense officials announced the move to parliament on Wednesday .
They said the training is part of the mandate of the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia .
The AU has promised 8,000 peacekeepers for the war-ravaged country .
But so far , only Uganda has sent troops .
Those 1500 troops have largely stayed out of the Somali capital 's chronic violence , focusing on protecting the airport , seaport , and presidential palace .
Witnesses in the Somali capital say a landmine explosion in northern Mogadishu Thursday , killed two policemen and wounded three other people .
The 250 soldiers will increase Uganda 's contingent in Somalia to 1750 troops .
Ugandan officials said the new troops will deploy as soon as the Somali government works out the logistics for their stay .
French President Jacques Chirac says he is opposed to any international sanctions against a Palestinian government formed by the militant group Hamas .
Speaking to reporters Monday on the final day of a visit to Saudi Arabia , Mr. Chirac said he was aware of calls for cutting off aid to a Hamas-led government because of the group 's refusal to renounce violence against Israel .
But he said imposing sanctions would mostly hurt the Palestinian people .
Hamas won a landslide election victory in January , prompting Israel , the United States and the European Union - which includes France - to threaten to stop funding unless the Islamic militant group recognize Israel and stop its militants from attacking the Jewish state .
France often presents itself as supporting Arab causes , while many Arabs regard the United States as biased toward Israel .
Iraqi election officials say it is too early to suspect problems during Saturday 's constitutional referendum , as workers continue to review ballots .
Officials say workers are still auditing results for about 12 Shi'ite and Kurdish areas which reported unusually high totals of " yes " votes .
Those regions were expected to support the constitution .
Election officials say a final vote count may be ready by Friday or Saturday .
At least one predominantly Sunni Arab province , Salaheddin , appeared to have voted against the constitution .
The draft will fail if three provinces vote against it .
Some Sunni Arab leaders have alleged fraud in Saturday 's vote .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police said gunmen in Ramadi killed the deputy governor of Anbar province , Talib al-Dulaimi , on Tuesday .
And U.S. military officials said one soldier died in a gun battle in Mosul .
The head of the U.S. central bank says the bank will strictly enforce new rules to prevent another financial crisis like the one that has disrupted the global economy for the past two years .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington on Thursday .
He said the most important lesson of the financial crisis is the need for an orderly way to shut down failing firms that are so big that they could damage the overall financial system if they collapse .
Bernanke also said there is too little evidence to blame low interest rates for the inflated housing prices that played a major role in the crisis .
The commission is nearing the end of a year-long investigation into what caused the financial crisis , and how to prevent a future one .
Ivory Coast has reported its first outbreaks of the deadly H5N1 strain of birdflu .
The Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health says tests have confirmed the presence of the virus in birds from two outbreaks in Abidjan .
The H5N1 strain was detected in seven chickens , nine ducks and one sparrowhawk .
The virus has been confirmed in five other African nations - Burkina Faso , Cameroon , Egypt , Niger and Nigeria .
Earlier this week , a minister from the southern African country of Malawi told a 19-nation bird flu conference that Africa is not prepared to fight bird flu .
A United Nations official at the same conference said poverty and inadequate medical and veterinary services make Africa vulnerable to the disease .
Bird flu has killed more than 113 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Algerian state television says a suicide bomb attack has killed about 15 people and wounded more than 70 others .
Security officials say the attack occurred Thursday in the eastern town of Batna - shortly before President Abdelaziz Bouteflika was scheduled to visit .
Witnesses say the bomber was among a crowd of people waiting to see Mr. Bouteflika .
The Algerian president later visited some of the wounded at a local hospital .
He condemned those who carried out the attack as " criminals " and said Algeria was committed to achieving national reconciliation .
Al-Qaida 's North African branch has claimed responsibility for several recent attacks in Algeria .
Islamic militants have been fighting in Algeria since 1992 .
Violence has largely subsided in recent years , but the group al-Qaida Organization in the Islamic Maghreb continues to fight .
Negotiators from the Indonesian government and Aceh-based separatists have begun meeting in Finland for the latest round of peace talks aimed at ending decades of conflict that has taken tens of thousands of lives in the northwestern province .
Finnish mediators are helping the two sides discuss a draft peace proposal in hopes of reaching a deal in the next few weeks .
Officials say the separatists have given up their demand for independence from Indonesia .
There is still disagreement , however , over whether Indonesian troops will withdraw from Aceh , and whether the rebels will be allowed to form their own political party .
Peace talks that stalled in 2003 were re-started after last year 's December 26 tsunami that devastated Aceh and highlighted the need to cooperate on reconstruction efforts .
NATO says two civilians have been killed and at least 10 others wounded in a fuel truck explosion in eastern Afghanistan .
A NATO statement says Thursday 's blast in Nangarhar province also damaged nearby shops and vehicles , and that the explosion was likely triggered by an improvised explosive device .
In neighboring Logar province , NATO says coalition forces killed 12 Taliban insurgents , including a commander during an operation on Wednesday .
Another three insurgents were killed while Afghan and coalition forces were pursuing commanders of the insurgent group Jama'at ul Dawa al-Qu'ran in northeastern Kunar province .
The group is linked to attacks that killed two U.S. service members .
And the alliance says eight coalition members were injured Thursday after a NATO helicopter made a hard landing in southern Kandahar province .
NATO says based on initial reports , the incident was not a result of enemy fire .
Colombian authorities say they have dismantled a false passport ring with links to al-Qaida and the Islamic militant group Hamas , and arrested 19 people in connection with the case .
Prosecutors said Thursday three members of the state intelligence agency known as DAS , were among those arrested , and that one of them is among eight people sought by the United States for extradition .
Officials also say a member of Colombia 's National Registry , which provides official identification documents , was arrested in the sweep .
Authorities say the arrests follow an investigation that began in 2002 .
Local media reports say the passport-forging ring enabled foreign nationals to travel as Colombians to Europe and the United States .
The reports say the suspects sent the forged passports to citizens of Pakistan , Jordan , Iraq and Egypt , who never actually set foot in Colombia .
NATO said Saturday one of its operations in Afghanistan has resulted in the deaths of two civilians and the wounding of another .
NATO service members discovered a dead woman and two wounded men who had been caught in the crossfire of a gunbattle to secure a compound in the village of Kalachen in Kandahar district , where the alliance force was looking for a Taliban commander .
One of the men later died from his injuries .
The alliance force arrested the Taliban commander and killed one insurgent , while another was wounded .
NATO says the joint security force , along with local elders and government officials , are reviewing the circumstances surrounding the death of the civilians .
President Bush is seeking public support for his economic agenda , urging Congress to pass his proposed budget and reforms to the Social Security retirement program .
Speaking in the midwestern city of Detroit Tuesday , Mr. Bush said his $ 2.5-trillion budget maintains discipline on spending while enabling the military and Homeland Security Department to protect Americans .
About Social Security , he said younger workers should be allowed to divert part of their taxes into private accounts that they could invest for a possibly higher return .
The speech was part of the president 's effort to promote his plans , in the face of opposition from Democrats .
Opponents have called Mr. Bush 's budget " irresponsible , " noting that it does not take into account costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The Democrats have likened Mr. Bush 's Social Security plan to a form of roulette ( gambling ) .
In the old days , when men were allowed to have many wives , a middle-aged Man had one wife that was old and one that was young ; each loved him very much , and desired to see him like herself .
Now the Man 's hair was turning grey , which the young Wife did not like , as it made him look too old for her husband .
So every night she used to comb his hair and pick out the white ones .
But the elder Wife saw her husband growing grey with great pleasure , for she did not like to be mistaken for his mother .
So every morning she used to arrange his hair and pick out as many of the black ones as she could .
The consequence was the Man soon found himself entirely bald .
Yield to all and you will soon have nothing to yield .
Bolivia 's new president has cut top officials ' salaries by half and says the savings will be used for education and health programs .
Evo Morales fulfilled his campaign promise to cut salaries after a cabinet meeting late Thursday .
He announced a 57 percent pay cut for himself , to about $ 1,800 ( U.S. ) a month .
He reduced his ministers ' salaries by half and decreed that no public official can make more than the president .
During his campaign , Mr. Morales promised a more austere budget for Bolivia , South America 's poorest country .
The coca farmer and workers ' rights activist was elected by a landslide in December .
He is Bolivia 's first ethnically indigenous president .
An Ethiopian official says the first portion of the ancient Axum obelisk will be returned home next week after being taken to Rome 70 years ago .
Ethiopian Culture Minister Teshome Toga told reporters Friday the first section of the obelisk is scheduled to be flown to Ethiopia next Wednesday .
The roughly 24-meter high , 160 - metric ton granite structur , believed to be nearly 2,000-years-old , is too large to be moved in one piece .
The obelisk was taken from taken from the city of Axum in 1937 by order of Italian dictator Benito Mussolini during Italy 's brief occupation of Ethiopia .
The two nations signed an agreement for the return of the structure in 1947 , but " technical difficulties " have delayed its delivery .
World leaders have praised Iraq 's national election as a triumph for the Iraqi people .
In Europe and Russia , several leaders who opposed the war joined the United States in declaring the vote a success .
French President Jacques Chirac told President Bush by phone Monday the elections are an important stage in Iraq 's reconstruction .
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said Iraqis deserve great recognition for heading to the polls despite the danger .
But he reaffirmed Germany 's refusal to send troops to the country .
Russia 's President Putin called the vote a historic event .
Praise also came from Asian countries , including China , which said it hopes the vote brings stability to Iraq .
President Bush and Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed the election Sunday , calling it a blow to terrorism .
Top officials of the U.S. central bank are expected to hold interest rates steady when they gather at a key policymaking meeting Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington .
The U.S. Federal Reserve has cut interest rates several times recently to bolster economic growth that has been hurt by the faltering housing market , tight credit , and other problems .
But economists say cutting rates too low can spark inflation , which is a growing threat as oil prices soar to ever higher record levels .
Experts interviewed by news organizations , like Bloomberg and Reuters , say the Fed will probably keep interest rates unchanged for a while , but raise them later this year .
Turkey 's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul says he remains a candidate for president - despite opposition from secularists .
Gul told reporters Friday his candidacy will has not been derailed by the political crisis his nomination by the ruling A.K. ( Justice and Development ) party sparked .
Gul withdrew his candidacy from consideration from parliament after he failed to gain enough support .
Thursday , Turkey 's parliament approved a set of constitutional amendments that would allow the president to be elected by a popular vote , instead of by parliament .
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer must sign the amendments before they can become law .
The ruling party proposed the electoral reform package and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan called early legislative elections ( July 22 ) after parliament failed to elect a president .
Secularists opposed Gul 's candidacy and accused the Islamist-rooted A.K. Party of attempting to undermine Turkey 's secular order .
Machinists for the U.S. airplane maker Boeing voted to strike Friday , after rejecting a new contract offer .
Union members voted late Thursday to authorize the strike by more than 18,000 workers who manufacture components and assemble planes .
Boeing officials expressed disappointment at the vote .
In a written statement , they said they will not assemble airplanes during the strike .
Earlier , Boeing officials warned a strike would be devastating to the company .
Union leaders had urged members to reject the new contract , saying it failed to meet their demands on health care and pension benefits .
Boeing managers were seeking to cut some benefit costs , which they say have risen sharply in recent years .
Boeing is currently locked in a trade dispute with its European rival Airbus over government subsidies .
Burma 's state media are hailing the capture of a rare , white elephant as a sign the country will enjoy peace , stability and prosperity under a new , elected government , as the media say it does under present military rule .
The official New Light of Myanmar newspaper said Saturday that the elephant , captured Thursday in western Rakhine state , is a source of national pride .
The paper said the pachyderm is estimated to be 18 years old and is the fifth white elephant captured since 2001 .
Burma has been under harsh military rule since 1962 and elections scheduled for November have been widely criticized by the international community as a sham to keep the military in power .
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him , causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help .
When the Flea a second time hopped upon his foot , he groaned and said , " O Hercules ! if you will not help me against a Flea , how can I hope for your assistance against greater antagonists ? '
Activists from an alliance of five political parties in Nepal say they will hold a second round of protests Monday against King Gyanendra 's assumption of absolute power .
A spokesman for the alliance said Sunday the nationwide rallies will go ahead despite the king 's ban on demonstrations .
Last Tuesday , political parties organized street protests to pressure the king to restore democracy in Nepal .
Police arrested dozens of people , including former government ministers and former lawmakers .
Sunday , police in Kathmandu arrested three students for shouting anti-monarchy slogans .
King Gyanendra dismissed the government , imposed a state of emergency and suspended civil liberties on February 1 .
He said his move was prompted by the government 's failure to contain a Maoist rebellion , which has killed thousands of people since 1996 .
Cuban officials and allies of President Fidel Castro say the aging leader is doing well after undergoing intestinal surgery .
Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage said in Bolivia Sunday that Mr. Castro will recover within a few weeks and will return to his duties .
The 79-year-old Cuban leader underwent surgery last Monday to stop intestinal bleeding .
The government says the president handed power to his brother , Raul , who has not been seen in public since the political shift .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , a close political ally to Mr. Castro , said Sunday he had learned the Cuban leader was able to get out of bed and hold conversations .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Sunday Washington encourages democratic change in Cuba , but would not stir up a political crisis while Mr. Castro remains ill .
A grand jury in the U.S. state of Texas has indicted U.S. Congressman Tom DeLay on charges of money laundering and conspiracy .
The indictment announced Monday is the second in less than a week against the former U.S. House Republican majority leader .
Last week , Mr. DeLay was forced to temporarily step down from his powerful leadership position when he was charged with violating a Texas campaign-finance law .
In both indictments , he is accused of conspiring to get around a state ban on corporate campaign contributions by funneling money through the Republican National Committee .
Mr. DeLay has denied the charges .
In a statement released Monday , Mr. DeLay accused the Texas district attorney Ronnie Earle of " prosecutorial abuse , " and called the charges illegitimate and baseless .
If convicted , he could face up to life in prison for money laundering .
The director of the Getty Museum in Los Angeles says he is recommending that the museum return to Greece several antiquities that country says were illegally taken abroad .
Greece has demanded the return of four items in particular - a gold wreath , a marble statue of a woman dating to the sixth century BC , a tombstone and a sculpted relief .
A joint statement by museum director Michael Brand and Greek Culture Minister George Voulgarakis did not say which items will be returned .
The Getty Museum has been embroiled in several antiquities smuggling scandals .
Italian authorities have charged former curator Marion True with receiving stolen goods .
Greek authorities also are investigating True .
They raided her vacation home in Greece , where they found dozens of antiquities that had not been registered with the Greek government .
Witnesses say an Israeli drone aircraft fired a missile into a car near a Gaza refugee camp Tuesday , but they say the passengers escaped unharmed .
Israel says the strike near Khan Younis targeted two Palestinian militants wanted in connection with a series of mortar attacks on nearby Jewish settlements .
The Khan Younis camp in southern Gaza is a stronghold of militants who often target Jewish settlements with homemade rockets and mortars .
Israel has raided the camp repeatedly to kill or capture militants , and frequently destroys Khan Younis homes linked to such suspects .
Israel has killed scores of Palestinian militants in targeted attacks since the Palestinian uprising ( intifada ) erupted more than four years ago
The United Nations weather agency says 2010 is set to be one of the three warmest years on record , and possibly the warmest ever .
The World Meteorological Organization says the past 10 years , 2001 - 2010 , have also set a new record for the warmest decade , with the highest worldwide temperatures since records began in 1850 .
The WMO released the data Thursday at U.N. climate change talks in Cancun , Mexico .
Figures for November and December will be factored in early next year .
Many members of Iraq 's national football ( soccer ) team were scheduled to leave Iraq Saturday - just one day after ceremonies honoring them for their win last week at the Asian Cup championship in Jakarta .
Some players have contracts with teams outside Iraq and live abroad .
The Iraqi team has not played at home for 17 years due to fears of violence since the start of the 2003 U.S. invasion and to international sanctions against Saddam Hussein 's regime before that .
The team practices in Jordan .
On Friday , Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki welcomed Iraq 's national team to celebrations in Baghdad 's heavily fortified Green Zone .
Most Baghdad residents were barred from the celebration because of security concerns .
Iraq defeated Saudi Arabia 1-0 in the Asian Cup final , sparking a rare moment of national jubilation .
A former detainee of the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo who later rejoined al-Qaida in Yemen has turned himself in to Saudi authorities .
Saudi Arabia 's Interior Ministry says Jabir Jubran al-Fayfi contacted the Saudi government from Yemen to express his readiness to surrender .
The Yemeni government arranged for his return .
Al-Fayfi was released from Guantanamo in 2006 to undergo rehabilitation in Saudi Arabia .
He rejoined al-Qaida after completing the reform program .
Saudi officials say 11 of more than 100 former Guantanamo inmates who finished the rehabilitation program returned to militancy .
The Yemen-based al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula is known for launching attacks on regional and Western targets .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has urged international donors to keep aid flowing following last week 's election victory by the militant group Hamas .
Mr. Abbas , who is not a member of Hamas , says the Palestinians will stick to their agreements with Israel .
He spoke alongside German Chancellor Angela Merkel after talks Monday in Ramallah .
Ms. Merkel stressed her previous demand that Hamas renounce violence and accept Israel 's right to exist .
EU foreign ministers say Hamas must take those two steps to ensure aid is not suspended .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a similar demand Sunday .
In London , members of the so-called Middle East quartet - the U.S. , Russia , the EU and the United Nations - are meeting for talks on how to deal with a Hamas-led Palestinian government .
The head of the U.S. government 's hurricane relief effort says it is too soon for residents of New Orleans to return to their storm-ravaged city .
On the Fox News Sunday program , Coast Guard Vice Admiral Thad Allen urged New Orleans ' mayor to " slow down " a plan for city residents to start coming back this week .
In that interview and others with U.S. television networks Sunday , the admiral said officials are still concerned about polluted floodwater , lack of clean drinking water and weakened levees .
Business owners were allowed to return to some parts of New Orleans on Saturday to begin assessing damage and cleaning up .
The number of confirmed deaths from Hurricane Katrina has climbed to nearly 900 , with the majority , 646 , in the state of Louisiana .
From the dazzling Opening Ceremonies to the number of gold medals won , China 's Olympic performance has been a source of great national pride .
And any dissent has been quickly silenced .
So it comes as no surprise that Chinese fans at the Beijing Olympics have been boisterous supporters of their national team .
But VOA 's Brian Padden was surprised to learn that many Chinese are also rooting for the Americans .
A separatist group fighting Indonesian troops in Aceh has rejected the government 's offer to let rebel leaders run for political office , but only as part of existing political parties .
A Free Aceh Movement spokesman said Friday at peace talks in Helsinki , Finland that if the rebel group agreed to the offer , it would mean the organization was given privileges not available to others in Aceh .
The spokesman says that is not acceptable .
On Thursday , Indonesia 's government proposed that Aceh rebels be allowed to field candidates in existing political parties , but not as a new party .
The proposal would require a change in Indonesian law , which says parties must have representation in at least half of the country 's 32 provinces .
The current round of peace talks is scheduled to end Sunday .
Iraqi authorities say a suicide bomber killed four policemen in Baghdad and gunmen killed at least 11 other Iraqis in another town Thursday .
Police say the gunmen killed the 11 men and women in Latifiyah .
They believe the victims were members of an extended Shi'ite family .
To the north , in Baghdad , the suicide bomber blew himself up outside Iraq 's Interior Ministry .
In a separate attack in the capital , a roadside bomb killed a U.S. soldier .
U.S. Brigadier General Donald Alston said Thursday that U.S. forces expected insurgent attacks to increase after security measures imposed for Iraq 's elections were lifted .
Meanwhile , al-Qaida in Iraq posted video footage on the Internet it says shows five Sudanese nationals , including a diplomat , abducted in Baghdad .
The group threatened to kill the five unless Sudan cuts ties with Iraq .
The United States is urging Uzbekistan to give fair and humane treatment to a journalist recently arrested for violating the Uzbek constitution .
State Department spokesman Adam Ereli says the United States is closely following the case of Sabirjon Yakubov , who was arrested April 11th .
Mr. Ereli says Uzbek authorities have harassed other journalists in the past to limit publications of critical stories .
Mr. Yakubov , who works for the Hurriyat ( Freedom ) weekly , faces a 20 year prison sentence .
He has recently written articles about Islam and political reforms , as well as the " Orange Revolution " in the Ukraine .
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists says that if Mr. Yakubov is being held for expressing his religious and political beliefs he should be freed immediately .
Police in Mauritania say security forces have arrested the leaders of a terrorist cell with alleged links to al-Qaida .
The detainees are said to be prominent leaders in the guerrilla group , Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat .
A statement from the national police says seven people were arrested earlier this week as they returned from the group 's training camp in Algeria .
The detainees are said to be among a total of 20 guerrillas who were sent to the camp for training .
Scientists say they have discovered a gene responsible for increasing a person 's likelihood of contracting type 1 diabetes .
In an article published Sunday in the journal Nature , researchers said people with a variation of the gene are as much as 50 percent more likely to suffer from type 1 diabetes .
That sort of diabetes is also called juvenile diabetes because it is often diagnosed in childhood or early adulthood .
Researchers say the ability to forecast a vulnerability to diabetes would allow doctors to intervene in time to lessen its impact on patients .
Type 1 diabetes is an incurable disease in which the body destroys its cells which produce insulin , a hormone that regulates blood glucose .
Those with the disease have a higher risk of heart disease , kidney failure , blindness and other medical problems .
An artist from Argentina is preparing to showcase her work at the Embassy of Argentina in Washington later this month .
The show is just the latest step in an artistic career that began as a teenager .
VOA 's Sahar Sepehri introduces us to Evangelina Elizondo , an artist making a name for herself in the international world of art .
Officials in Belgrade say a local employee of the U.S. Embassy has accidentally crashed into a motorcade in which the president of Serbia , Boris Tadic , was traveling .
Serbian Interior Minister Dragan Jocic said Wednesday that what had been feared to be an assassination attempt turned out to be a traffic offense .
The minister also said the driver , identified as Miroslav Cimpl , became very aggravated while trying to pass the motorcade .
The minister also said that when Mr. Cimpl spotted flashing lights , he panicked and hit the president 's car .
The pro-Western Mr. Tadic was not hurt .
Pro-Western Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was assassinated last year in front of his office building in Belgrade .
Indian search teams have recovered at least 50 bodies in the eastern state of West Bengal where an overcrowded ferry capsized .
Officials say more than 100 people were on the ferry when it overturned Saturday in a turbulent river near the Bay of Bengal .
Dozens of passengers have been rescued , but others are still missing .
Officials say most of the passengers were Muslims returning to the town of Kakdwip after attending a religious festival .
Authorities say the boat 's maximum capacity was 60 people .
Boating accidents are common in India , where vessels are often overloaded and safety standards are poor .
Spanish police in raids across the country have arrested 186 people in a crackdown on the distribution of child pornography .
A total of 650 officers took part in the operation that broke up a system that used the Internet to distribute pornographic materials without the need to place them on web pages .
The suspects used a series of pre-arranged passwords to share files directly between computers .
Last month , Spanish police broke up a group of pedophiles who abused and raped children then distributed the images over the Internet .
Burmese officials have blamed local dissident student groups , working with western governments , for Friday 's bomb blast at a luxury hotel in Rangoon .
Officials held a rare news conference in the capital city Sunday to denounce the attack .
They released a statement that alleged several groups , including the All Burma Students Democratic Front , the Karen National Union , and the Vigorous Burmese Student Warriors were behind the small blast outside the Traders Hotel , that did little damage and caused no injuries .
The Burmese Information Minister Brigadier General Kyaw Hsann also said authorities had thwarted a separate major bomb attack .
Officials have not mentioned any arrests in the alleged bomb plots .
Burma 's tightly-guarded capital has seen a number of explosions in recent months .
The government regularly blames exile groups that oppose military rule .
Some dissidents say the blasts are carried out by government-linked groups to justify tighter security .
Condoleezza Rice ( l ) and Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao The subjects of North Korea and Taiwan dominated meetings in Beijing Sunday between top Chinese leaders and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
The French news agency quotes Ms. Rice as telling President Hu Jintao she hopes Beijing will intensify efforts to get North Korea to resume talks on its nuclear program in a constructive manner .
Mr. Hu said China is committed to resolving the issue .
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and Ms. Rice also met and expressed their mutual desire to enhance Chinese-U.S. relations .
The prime minister told Ms. Rice China 's new anti-secession law is meant to contain forces on Taiwan seeking independence .
While on her Asia tour , Ms. Rice said the European government would be acting irresponsibly if they sell weapons to China that might be used against U.S. forces in the Pacific .
Key developing countries say an offer by the United States to cut agricultural subsidies and re-start stalled negotiations on a global free-trade pact is insufficient .
Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim made the statement to reporters Tuesday in Geneva , following a meeting of ministers of leading developing and industrialized countries .
The discussions came one day after the United States said at talks in Switzerland it is ready to reduce certain agricultural subsidies by 60 percent .
The European Union also proposed cuts in farm supports , while Japan rejected the U.S. offer .
Developing countries say subsidies to farmers in rich nations give these farmers an unfair advantage on world markets .
Diplomats say this week 's discussions may be the last chance to secure the broad outlines of a global trade treaty before a key Hong Kong summit on World Trade in December .
Iraqi police say car bomb attacks at churches in Baghdad and Kirkuk have killed at least three people and wounded several others .
They say the cars exploded at nearly the same time outside two churches in Kirkuk and four in Baghdad .
The blasts came shortly after Iraqi authorities adjourned the trial of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein until at least Wednesday .
Saddam and some co-defendants were thrown out of court Sunday , after Saddam 's co-defendant half-brother cursed the court and was then dragged away by guards .
Several defense lawyers walked out in protest .
The former Iraqi leader and seven co-defendants are accused of killing more than 140 people in the town of Dujail in 1982 after a failed assassination attempt .
Elsewhere , a suicide car bomber killed four Iraqi soldiers near Saddam 's hometown of Tikrit .
Another insurgent attack killed 10 people south of Baghdad .
Senator John Kerry and former Senator John Edwards , Democratic running mates in the 2004 Presidential election , have lambasted President Bush for his response to Hurricane Katrina .
Senator Kerry of Massachusetts , the Democratic nominee for President in 2004 , told a university audience Monday that Katrina has exposed a broader pattern of " incompetence and negligence " in the Bush administration .
The Republican National Committee responded to Senator Kerry 's speech by saying the efforts to politicize the tragedy are " unsavory " .
Mr. Edwards criticized a move by President Bush to suspend regulations that set a minimum wage for workers on federal contracts .
Former President Bill Clinton was also critical Sunday , telling television audiences that a disaster plan affecting only middle class and rich people is not workable .
New White House budget figures show a program to help seniors pay for prescription drugs will cost the government some $ 320 billion more than projected .
Figures released late Tuesday raised the estimate of the program 's cost to $ 720 billion over the next decade .
That is nearly twice the $ 400 billion estimate President Bush offered in 2003 , before Congress added the prescription drug benefit to the government 's Medicare medical insurance program .
The increased cost is likely to draw criticism from lawmakers concerned about the soaring U.S. budget deficit .
Speaking with reporters at the White House Wednesday , Mr. Bush said Medicare has " unfunded liabilities " that he and Congress will have to deal with after fixing the Social Security retirement program .
Argentina benefits from rich natural resources , a highly literate population , an export-oriented agricultural sector , and a diversified industrial base .
Although one of the world 's wealthiest countries 100 years ago , Argentina suffered during most of the 20th century from recurring economic crises , persistent fiscal and current account deficits , high inflation , mounting external debt , and capital flight .
A severe depression , growing public and external indebtedness , and a bank run culminated in 2001 in the most serious economic , social , and political crisis in the country 's turbulent history .
Interim President Adolfo RODRIGUEZ SAA declared a default - the largest in history - on the government 's foreign debt in December of that year , and abruptly resigned only a few days after taking office .
His successor , Eduardo DUHALDE , announced an end to the peso 's decade-long 1-to-1 peg to the US dollar in early 2002 .
The economy bottomed out that year , with real GDP 18 % smaller than in 1998 and almost 60 % of Argentines under the poverty line .
Real GDP rebounded to grow by an average 8.5 % annually over the subsequent six years , taking advantage of previously idled industrial capacity and labor , an audacious debt restructuring and reduced debt burden , excellent international financial conditions , and expansionary monetary and fiscal policies .
Inflation also increased , however , during the administration of President Nestor KIRCHNER , which responded with price restraints on businesses , as well as export taxes and restraints , and beginning in early 2007 , with understating inflation data .
Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER succeeded her husband as President in late 2007 , and the rapid economic growth of previous years began to slow sharply the following year as government policies held back exports and the world economy fell into recession .
The economy has rebounded strongly from the 2009 recession , but the government 's continued reliance on expansionary fiscal and monetary policies risks exacerbating already high inflation .
The United Nations says it has placed U.N. disaster teams around the world on alert and told them they are ready to be deployed to the U.S. Gulf Coast .
A U.N. spokesman in Geneva Friday said members of its U.N. Disaster Assessment and Coordination Center specializing in natural disasters are ready to help the United States deal with the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina , if requested by Washington .
He said the world body 's various agencies - including the World Health Organization , UNICEF , the World Food Program and the U.N. refugee agency - are meeting Friday in New York to put together an offer of logistical support .
The U.N. announcement comes several hours after Secretary-General Kofi Annan said America has always been generous in responding to disasters around the globe , and urged the international community to offer assistance to the devastated communities along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
Since 1962 , when France stationed military personnel in the region , French Polynesia has changed from a subsistence agricultural economy to one in which a high proportion of the work force is either employed by the military or supports the tourist industry .
With the halt of French nuclear testing in 1996 , the military contribution to the economy fell sharply .
Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a primary source of hard currency earnings .
Other sources of income are pearl farming and deep-sea commercial fishing .
The small manufacturing sector primarily processes agricultural products .
The territory benefits substantially from development agreements with France aimed principally at creating new businesses and strengthening social services .
MTV Networks has launched its first music video channel for Africa .
The new 24-hour channel , called MTV Base , is broadcast on satellite television , available to 1.3 million homes across Africa .
MTV says it also hopes to sell blocks of broadcast time to local stations so it can reach more people .
MTV says about 30 percent of the music played on the channel will be African - such as South Africa 's popular kwaito music , a derivative of hip-hop , or mbalax - music from West Africa made famous by Senegalese artist , Youssou N'Dour .
MTV Base is the network 's 100th channel and its final global outpost .
MTV has already launched stations in North America , Europe , Latin America , and Asia .
South Africa 's President Thabo Mbeki says former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide may be able to return home .
Mr. Aristide has lived in exile in South Africa since fleeing a 2004 uprising in Haiti .
But Mr. Mbeki told South African radio Sunday he sees no reason why Haiti 's newly-elected president Rene Preval would oppose Mr. Aristide returning home .
He said he thinks a determination will come after the two men consult about the timing of such a move , so that , in his words , it does not create unnecessary problems .
President-elect Preval and Mr. Aristide were once political allies but broke over the corruption scandal that helped to bring down Mr. Aristide 's presidency .
Iran 's state news agency says an Iranian fighter jet has crashed into the Oman Sea off the country 's southeastern coast .
Iran says the F-4 Phantom jet crashed at 12:45 p.m. local time ( 0915 UTC ) Monday in waters near the Iranian port city of Konarak .
There was no word on the fate of the pilot or the cause of the crash .
Many of the warplanes in Iran 's air force are aging U.S.-built jets such as the F-4 that Iran bought before its Islamic Revolution in 1979 .
U.S. sanctions imposed on Iran after the revolution have made it hard for Tehran to buy spare parts for its military and civilian aircraft .
Iran 's air force also has Russian-made Sukhoi warplanes and recently conducted test flights on two domestically-produced fighter jets .
The chief of the Polisario rebels in Western Sahara has asked the African Union for help securing the release of prisoners held by Morocco .
According to Algeria 's APS news agency , Mohamed Abdelaziz , secretary-general of the Polisario Front , wrote to the current chairman of the African Union , Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo , asking him to intercede with Morocco .
Mr. Abdelaziz said it was unfair that Morocco was still holding the prisoners , even after the Polisario Front released hundreds of Moroccan soldiers this month .
The letter said Morocco was holding 37 political prisoners and 151 prisoners of war .
It said that some 500 people were missing .
Rebels battled Moroccan troops over control of Western Sahara for 16 years , following the withdrawal of colonial power Spain .
In 1991 , the United Nations brokered a cease-fire to end fighting .
A public opinion poll indicates that nearly nine out of 10 Israelis believe their country 's offensive against Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon is justified .
The survey published Tuesday in the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth ( " Latest News " ) found that 81 percent of those polled think the offensive should continue .
Nearly 60 percent said the offensive should continue until Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah is killed .
Only 17 percent said Israel should stop the attacks and start negotiations .
The poll also showed that Israelis are largely satisfied with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's response to the crisis .
Nearly 80 percent said that Mr. Olmert 's job performance was either very good or fairly good .
Iraq says it will prosecute Saddam Hussein on 12 well-documented criminal charges , drawn from a list of 500 criminal counts that authorities had considered filing against the jailed ex-dictator .
Speaking in Baghdad on Sunday a government spokesman also repeated a government prediction that Saddam will go on trial within two months .
No trial date has been set .
Saddam is widely expected to face genocide charges for allegedly ordering the 1988 chemical attack on the Kurdish village of Halabja that killed five thousand people .
Other charges are expected for the 1990 invasion of Kuwait and for the deadly suppression of Shi'ite muslims that began a year later in southern Iraq .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says it has seized a vast underground insurgent hideout in western Iraq .
Authorities say the complex includes fully furnished living spaces , fresh food and a massive munitions cache .
The United Nations World Food Program ( WFP ) says Burma 's military government has placed restrictions on food deliveries as it cracks down on mass protests throughout the country .
The U.N. agency on Friday expressed concern that the government 's actions could block efforts to feed some 500,000 people in the impoverished Southeast Asian country .
According to the agency , Burmese authorities have stopped all movement of food out of the country 's second-largest city , Mandalay , which will affect deliveries in northern Shan State .
Unrest also has stopped food delivery in the port city of Sittwe , disrupting the World Food Program 's operations in north Rakhine State .
The U.N. agency says it is appealing to authorities for access to all parts of the country , to protect children , as well as HIV and tuberculosis patients .
Authorities in Colombia have killed two soldiers and wounded six others after they mistook them for leftist rebels .
Police say the incident occurred Thursday in the village of Chipaque south of the capital , Bogota .
They say military police rushed to the town after receiving information that rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , were planning to blow up electricity towers in the area .
A firefight broke out when an army patrol arrived at the scene at the same time to investigate a separate report about the FARC .
Authorities say the incident is under investigation .
The FARC , along with a smaller leftist rebel group and rightist paramilitaries , is involved in a long-running war with the government in Colombia .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Japan 's Supreme Court has rejected a demand that Japan apologize to and compensate former Korean forced laborers who survived an explosion aboard a Japanese ship at the end of World War II .
The ship , carrying 4,000 Korean laborers and their families , was enroute to what is now South Korea when it exploded and sank off the coast of western Japan in August 1945 .
More than 500 people died .
The Supreme Court Tuesday upheld a lower court ruling that said the Japanese government did not neglect its responsibility when the incident occurred and does not need to apologize .
Jordan 's King Abdullah has postponed a peace mission to Israel and the Palestinian territories because of a flare-up in factional fighting in the Gaza Strip .
Speaking Monday in Amman , a spokesman for the king said the current security situation in Gaza is not conducive to the visit .
Hours earlier , Palestinian lawmakers voted to urge Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to fire his cabinet for failing to stop fighting between Hamas militants and police .
The bill also demands that Mr. Abbas form a new government within two weeks or face a no-confidence vote .
The vote came a short while after several dozen Palestinian police stormed the Palestinian parliament building in Gaza City to press demands for a security crackdown on Hamas .
Sunday , three Palestinians were killed and at least 50 others wounded in gunbattles between Hamas militants and police .
Colombia 's former president , Andres Pastrana , has been named the country 's next ambassador to the United States .
Mr. Pastrana , a lawyer and former television journalist , is replacing Luis Alberto Moreno .
Mr. Pastrana led Colombia from 1998 to 2002 , but has spent the past several years living in Spain .
His main objectives as ambassador to the United States will include promoting " Plan Colombia " - a U.S. sponsored anti-cocaine initiative .
Over the past three years , the United States has spent more than $ 3 billion to help eradicate coca production in Colombia .
Critics of the plan say it has done little to combat drug trafficking or stem Colombia 's drug-fueled civil war .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has walked for the first time in public since suffering a damaging fall two months ago .
Mr. Castro , assisted by a young school girl , received a standing ovation Thursday as he walked into the year-end session of the National Assembly .
The Associated Press reports he walked slowly and a bit stiffly as he took his seat on stage at Havana 's Convention Palace .
The 78-year-old Cuban leader stumbled and fell in October after making a speech , shattering his knee and fracturing an arm .
In November , Mr. Castro surprised many when he stood up from his wheelchair to receive Chinese President Hu Jintao , who was on a state visit .
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place .
The day being intensely hot , and the sun shining in its strength , the Traveler stopped to rest , and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass .
As this afforded only protection for one , and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it , a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow .
The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only , and not his Shadow .
The Traveler asserted that he had , with the hire of the Ass , hired his Shadow also .
The quarrel proceeded from words to blows , and while the men fought , the Ass galloped off .
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance .
California has become the first U.S. state to ban trans fats , a type of unsaturated fat that has been shown to clog arteries .
Doctors are applauding the decision , but some residents complain that the government is interfering with their freedom .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti takes us to the controversy .
The Dominican economy has been dependent on agriculture - primarily bananas - in years past , but increasingly has been driven by tourism as the government seeks to promote Dominica as an " ecotourism " destination .
In order to diversify the island 's production base , the government also is attempting to develop an offshore financial sector and has signed an agreement with the EU to develop geothermal energy resources .
In 2003 , the government began a comprehensive restructuring of the economy - including elimination of price controls , privatization of the state banana company , and tax increases - to address an economic and financial crisis and to meet IMF requirements .
This restructuring paved the way for an economic recovery - real growth for 2006 reached a two-decade high - and helped to reduce the debt burden , which remains at about 85 % of GDP .
Hurricane Dean struck the island in August 2007 causing damages equivalent to 20 % of GDP .
In 2009 , growth slowed as a result of the global recession ; it picked up only slightly in 2010 .
Western Sahara has a small market-based economy whose main industries are fishing , phosphate mining , and pastoral nomadism .
The territory 's arid desert climate makes sedentary agriculture difficult , and Western Sahara imports much of its food .
The Moroccan Government administers Western Sahara 's economy and is a source of employment , infrastructure development , and social spending in the territory .
Western Sahara 's unresolved legal status makes the exploitation of its natural resources a contentious issue between Morocco and the Polisario .
Morocco and the EU in July 2006 signed a four-year agreement allowing European vessels to fish off the coast of Morocco , including the disputed waters off the coast of Western Sahara .
Oil has never been found in Western Sahara in commercially significant quantities , but Morocco and the Polisario have quarreled over who has the right to authorize and benefit from oil exploration in the territory .
Western Sahara 's main long-term economic challenge is the development of a more diverse set of industries capable of providing greater employment and income to the territory .
Brazil 's health ministry says the country has the world 's highest swine flu death toll .
The health ministry says swine flu has killed 557 people between April and August of this year .
The ministry released its latest report Wednesday based on figures from the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control .
It says the United States ranks next , with 522 fatalities , and Argentina places third with 439 .
Brazil 's government says it wants to free up $ 2 billion to purchase 73 million doses of vaccine to fight the A-H1N1 virus .
Latin America has seen a greater impact from swine flu because it is the winter season in the Southern Hemisphere , when viruses are easily transmitted .
The World Health Organization has declared the swine flu outbreak a pandemic , and says up to two billion people may eventually be infected .
Members of the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee say confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers will begin November 7 .
The announcement Wednesday comes a little more than two weeks after President Bush nominated Ms. Miers to take over the Supreme Court seat left vacant by the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
Mr. Bush has drawn fire from fellow Republicans for the nomination of Ms. Miers , the current White House Counsel .
Some want the president to withdraw her nomination and pick a known conservative who would decisively shift the high court to the right .
Ms. Miers has not made her positions on contentious issues like abortion and gay marriage publicly known since her nomination .
U.S. officials in Iraq say two American civilians have been killed and a third wounded in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad .
The U.S. Embassy says the victims , who worked for a private security firm protecting U.S. diplomats , came under attack Saturday on the main road to Hilla .
Meanwhile , there are reports that talks among Iraq 's leading parties on forming a new government are stalled .
Sources close to the talks say leaders of the Kurdish alliance 's two factions were still debating Sunday a draft deal reached last week with the Shi'ite-dominated United Iraqi Alliance .
The two camps are supposed to announce an agreement on a new government Monday - two days before the Iraqi National Assembly convenes for the first time since January elections .
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulija Tymoshenko says she is breaking with President Viktor Yushchenko following his decision to dismiss her government .
Ms. Tymoshenko said Friday she is no longer a member of Mr. Yushchenko 's political team , but stopped short of calling herself an opponent .
The former prime minister said she and her followers plan to run for office separately in next year 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Yushchenko dismissed the government Thursday , amid allegations of corruption and reports of infighting between the prime minister and Petro Poroshenko , another senior official .
The president has named senior regional official Yuri Yekhanurov prime minister .
Ms. Tymoshenko was a key figure during Ukraine 's Orange Revolution that swept the president into power last year .
She blamed presidential advisors , rather than Mr. Yushchenko himself , for her firing .
Direct charter flights from Taiwan to mainland China have begun for the Lunar New Year holiday season , under an agreement between the diplomatic rivals to temporarily allow non-stop air travel .
A plane with Taiwan 's biggest carrier , China Airlines , arrived in Shanghai Friday from Taipei .
Six airlines from each side will operate 72 flights across the Taiwan Strait .
The service will connect the mainland Chinese cities of Beijing , Shanghai , Guangzhou and Xiamen with Taipei and Kaohsiung on Taiwan until February 7 .
This is the second year that Beijing and Taipei have allowed the holiday flights .
Last year , flights were limited to Taiwan business people living on the mainland .
This year , the flights include Taiwan tourists .
At other times of year , travelers must connect through other airports , usually Hong Kong .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has replaced his vice president and plans to make at least 12 more Cabinet changes .
He named Ramon Carrizales , a housing minister , to replace Vice President Jorge Rodriguez .
The Cabinet reshuffle comes after Venezuelans rejected constitutional reforms that would have greatly expanded the president 's power .
It was the first electoral defeat for Mr. Chavez in nine years .
The reforms would have allowed Mr. Chavez , who has vowed to transform Venezuela into a socialist state , to seek re-election indefinitely .
The proposals also would have abolished the Central Bank 's independence , limited individual rights under states of emergency and created new forms of community-owned property .
U.S. authorities have charged a man living in New York with relaying programs from Hezbollah television station al-Manar , deemed a global terrorist entity by the U.S. Treasury Department .
Federal prosecutors say Javed Iqbal , also known as John Iqbal , was relaying the Hezbollah-operated station to customers in New York .
Al-Manar is seen as a mouthpiece for the Lebanese Shi'ite group .
U.S. law forbids conducting business with any terror group .
Iqbal faces five years in jail if he is convicted of the charges under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act .
Hezbollah went to war with Israel last month after attacking an Israeli outpost and capturing two of its soldiers .
Al-Manar headquarters in southern Lebanon have been destroyed in the conflict , but the station remains on the air .
Burundi is a landlocked , resource-poor country with an underdeveloped manufacturing sector .
The economy is predominantly agricultural which accounts for just over 30 % of GDP and employs more than 90 % of the population .
Burundi 's primary exports are coffee and tea , which account for 90 % of foreign exchange earnings , though exports are a relatively small share of GDP .
Burundi 's export earnings - and its ability to pay for imports - rests primarily on weather conditions and international coffee and tea prices .
The Tutsi minority , 14 % of the population , dominates the coffee trade .
An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade resulted in more than 200,000 deaths , forced more than 48,000 refugees into Tanzania , and displaced 140,000 others internally .
Only one in two children go to school , and approximately one in 15 adults has HIV / AIDS .
Food , medicine , and electricity remain in short supply .
Less than 2 % of the population has electricity in its homes .
Burundi 's GDP grew around 4 % annually in 2006 - 10 .
Political stability and the end of the civil war have improved aid flows and economic activity has increased , but underlying weaknesses - a high poverty rate , poor education rates , a weak legal system , a poor transportation network , overburdened utilities , and low administrative capacity - risk undermining planned economic reforms .
The purchasing power of most Burundians has decreased as wage increases have not kept up with inflation .
Burundi will continue to remain heavily dependent on aid from bilateral and multilateral donors ; the delay of funds after a corruption scandal cut off bilateral aid in 2007 reduced government 's revenues and its ability to pay salaries .
Burundi joined the East African Community , which should boost Burundi 's regional trade ties , and received $ 700 million in debt relief in 2009 .
Government corruption is also hindering the development of a healthy private sector as companies seek to navigate an environment with ever-changing rules .
British authorities have increased security measures following intelligence that terrorists could be planning to attack major transportation hubs .
British transport police cancelled leave and called in extra officers .
But officials say the overall threat level has not changed , and there is no suggestion of an imminent attack .
The heightened security steps come after two terrorist plots were linked to Britain in the past few weeks .
A Swedish citizen , who had lived in Britain for the past 10 years , blew himself up in mid-December in Stockholm , wounding two other people .
At the end of December , British police arrested 12 men from around the country , suspected of plotting a terrorist attack in Britain .
The top U.S. envoy for arms control says North Korea , Iran and Syria are among the worst proliferators of weapons of mass destruction .
U.S. Undersecretary of State John Bolton told reporters in Tokyo that the three countries are states of proliferation concern .
He called for closer monitoring of shipments to and from such countries .
Mr. Bolton is visiting Tokyo to observe multinational exercises , held under the U.S.-led Proliferation Security Initiative , aimed at training troops from several countries to intercept weapons of mass destruction at sea .
The United States says the drills send a message that the world does not tolerate anyone who tries to traffic weapons of mass destruction .
The U.S. Senate has begun debate on two proposals calling on President Bush to establish a strategy that will lead to the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq .
The proposals , introduced by both Democrats and Republicans , call for Mr. Bush to inform Congress and the American people every three months how he plans to achieve the successful completion of the U.S. mission in Iraq .
But the two sides disagree on whether to set a timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. forces .
Democrats want the administration to give estimated dates on withdrawal , as long as certain conditions are met , while Republicans say setting any timetable would embolden the terrorists .
Votes on the proposals are expected Tuesday .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli troops shot and killed two Palestinian civilians in separate incidents in the West Bank and Gaza Strip Tuesday .
They say soldiers shot dead a Palestinian bystander during a clash with militants in Nablus .
Several Palestinians and two soldiers were wounded in the clash that erupted when Israeli troops raided the Palestinian city .
Israeli forces regularly mount raids into West Bank towns to arrest wanted Palestinians .
In the Gaza Strip , witnesses say a Palestinian farmer was killed when Israeli forces fired tank or artillery shells into the territory .
Somali pirates have released a Taiwanese ship that they seized off the coast of Somalia more than five months ago .
Taiwanese officials say the vessel , Chung Yi 218 , has safely set sail from Somali waters .
It is not clear how many crew members are on board , and if a deal was made to secure the ship 's release .
The vessel was one of three Taiwanese ships held by Somali gunmen since August .
The pirates had demanded a ransom of $ 500,000 for each boat and its crew .
The other two vessels are reported still being held .
Pirates have attacked many ships off the Somali coast , including a United Nations World Food Program vessel hijacked last year .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 .
World oil prices hit record highs for the fifth day in a row Friday .
The price of crude oil for future delivery reached $ 66.15 a barrel in New York trading .
Prices are up six percent this week and have more than doubled since the end of 2003 .
Analysts blame the latest increases on strong demand for oil , a spate of refinery problems , and worries that Middle East tensions could crimp crude oil supplies .
Soaring prices for imported oil also boosted the U.S. trade deficit six percent in June .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department says the gap between what Americans sell abroad and what they buy reached $ 58.8 billion .
The politically sensitive U.S. trade deficit with China rose to a record $ 17.6 billion .
Afghan military officials say a roadside bomb blast in the volatile south has killed six Afghan soldiers .
The officials say the incident occurred Tuesday , in the Sangin district in Helmand province .
The blast came just hours after another roadside bombing in neighboring Kandahar province killed three Afghans and two foreigners .
According to local officials , the victims worked for an American security company and were killed on the road linking Kandahar with Herat .
Also Tuesday , in the center of Kandahar city , two suicide bombers blew themselves up but there were no other casualties .
The governor of Kandahar province blamed the blasts on Taleban militants who have increased attacks in southern Afghanistan in recent months .
American tennis veteran Andre Agassi has notched another win at the Delray Beach International Championships in Florida .
But the tournament 's top seed had to work to get past Ramon Delgado of Paraguay Wednesday .
After losing the first set , 4-6 , Agassi survived a tough second set that included two match points , 7-6 .
He then cruised through the deciding third set , 6-0 .
Also winning in the second round was third seeded Xavier Malisse of Belgium .
He defeated American Justin Gimelstob , 6-2 , 7-5 .
German Florian Mayer , the sixth seed at the Delray Beach Tennis Center , ousted Oliver Marach of Austria , 7-5 , 6-3 .
Guillermo Garcia-Lopez of Spain was a 6-3 , 6-2 winner over Todd Widom of the United States in a match between unseeded players .
A FARMER who had a deadly and implacable hatred against a certain Fox , caught him and tied some tow to his tail ; then carrying him to the centre of his own grain-field , set the tow on fire and let the animal go .
" Alas ! " said the Farmer , seeing the result ; " if that grain had not been heavily insured , I might have had to dissemble my hatred of the Fox . "
The U.S. Senate has been debating a military funding bill that would require President Bush to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq in October .
The measure is expected to pass Thursday in the Democratic-controlled Senate .
The legislation sets a non-binding goal of withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq by April of next year .
It also sets benchmarks for Iraq 's government to show progress in securing the country .
The Democratic-controlled U.S. House of Representatives approved a similar measure Wednesday .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said President Bush will veto the legislation " very soon " after it arrives on his desk .
The House measure lacked the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto , and the Senate measure is not expected to have enough votes to override a veto , either .
The Senate bill includes some $ 95 billion to fund military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the end of September .
Sirens wailed across Israel Tuesday in remembrance of victims of the Holocaust , with citizens briefly standing in silence and motorists stopping their cars at the sides of major highways .
Commemorations honoring the estimated six million Jews killed by the Nazis during World War II were held at Yad Vashem holocaust memorial in Jerusalem .
Thousands of people also marched in silence in southern Poland at the site of the Auschwitz death camp .
Former Israeli Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Shimon Peres joined the commemoration .
A shofar , or ram 's horn sounded as about 8,000 people began the three-kilometer trek to the gas chambers at Birkenau , where the Nazis killed at least 1.1 million Jews , Roma ( Gypsies ) and others .
The first such march was held 20 years ago and now takes place as an annual memorial to the victims of Nazi Germany 's extermination campaign .
The Everglades stretch almost 200 kilometers across Florida
Wildlife has also been threatened as the glades shrink .
The National Park Service estimates that the number of wading birds has declined from a quarter of a million in the 1930s to fewer than 20,000 today .
But you 'll still see plenty of alligators .
They sun themselves along the old , two-lane state road through the Everglades , and may be diminished but are still an awesome sight .
There 's nothing like them , anywhere in the world .
SOME BOYS , playing near a pond , saw a number of Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones .
They killed several of them , when one of the Frogs , lifting his head out of the water , cried out : " Pray stop , my boys : what is sport to you , is death to us . "
- " One man 's pleasure may be another 's pain . " -
A U.S. general says Iraqi investigators have broken up a ring of police officers who were kidnapping people , extorting ransoms and sometimes killing their victims .
In an interview with the USA Today newspaper , Major General Joseph Peterson said the unit is alleged to have operated in northern Baghdad , under the command of an Iraqi police general .
General Peterson said the police general , who was not identified , was arrested and then released last month .
He is said to remain under investigation .
He said 17 others linked to the alleged ring remain in custody .
Allegations of Iraqi police death squads operating in Iraq 's Shi'ite-dominated security forces have circulated widely in recent weeks .
Hundreds of bodies - many of them showing signs of torture - have turned up in and around the capital since the February 22 bombing of a major Shi'ite shrine near Baghdad .
France 's minister of education says the government has prepared lessons that could be broadcast on television and radio in case schools are shut down by outbreaks of swine flu .
The minister , Luc Chatel , announced Wednesday that the lessons were prepared by distance learning authorities .
He said that no closures are currently scheduled , but flu-related changes will be handled on a case-by-case basis .
Iraq 's top Shi'ite cleric , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , has warned the nation 's prime minister that the government must provide for security or risk " other groups " taking over that responsibility .
In a statement released Saturday , the ayatollah called the failure of Iraqi security forces to decrease the violence plaguing the country " serious . "
He made the comments after holding talks with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in Najaf .
Mr. Maliki , who has been criticized for failing to clamp down on sectarian violence , said he planned to make changes to four government ministries .
In other developments , Iraqi officials say they have found the bodies of 14 South Asian Shi'ite pilgrims slaughtered Thursday as they traveled for a religious ceremony in Karbala .
Officials say the victims included 11 Pakistanis and three Indians .
Amnesty International says Taleban insurgents are deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan to instill fear and exert control over the population .
The London-based rights group said Thursday that civilians are increasingly facing suicide attacks , abductions and beheadings .
The organization said Taleban militants have a deliberate policy of killing teachers , abducting aid workers and burning school buildings .
It said targets also include women 's rights activists , clerics , government and health workers and teachers .
Amnesty said at least 756 civilians were killed in 2006 , mostly from roadside bombs and suicide attacks .
On Wednesday , a U.S. commander in eastern Afghanistan said an expected Taleban offensive has not materialized , partly because of increased operations by U.S. and NATO forces .
Brigadier General Joseph Votel says there are clashes every day , but they are mostly small scale .
U.S. fighter planes in Iraq have begun dropping bombs on insurgent targets in western Iraq as part of a major combat operation launched against Iraqi rebels .
Military officials say about 1,000 troops are taking part in " Operation Spear , " which began early Friday in Iraq 's restive Anbar province , near the Syrian border .
Reuters news agency says U.S. fighter planes have dropped at least nine 220-kilogram bombs on insurgent target areas near the town of Qaim .
Casualty figures are not yet available .
Anbar province is where U.S. forces say they killed about 40 militants in air strikes in Karabila on June 11 .
Elsewhere , at least six Iraqi police were killed and more than 20 others wounded Thursday in a suicide car bombing on Baghdad 's airport road .
And an Iraqi judge and his driver were gunned down in the northern city of Mosul .
The commander of Russia 's strategic missile force says Russia is capable of targeting U.S. missile defense sites if they are built in the Czech Republic and Poland .
General Nikolai Solovtsov warned Monday that Russia has the ability to resume building intermediate and short-range missiles if the Kremlin drops out of an arms treaty with the United States .
A NATO spokesman Monday described the general 's comments as " extreme language " that is uncalled for and out of date .
The Polish and Czech prime ministers , Jaroslaw Kaczynski and Mirek Topolanek , said Monday they would likely accept Washington 's proposal to build U.S. missile defense sites .
Washington says the sites would defend against missile launches from Iran or North Korea .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has called the presence of a missile defense system so close to Russia 's border a threat to its security .
Hamas security forces briefly detained the Fatah-allied Palestinian attorney general Thursday after accusing him of taking important information from his office .
Witnesses say Hamas forces seized Attorney General Ahmed Mughani at his office in Gaza City and released him a short time later .
Mughani said the Hamas-led Executive Force asked him to sign an agreement to resign his duties and to remain in Gaza .
The attorney general said he refused to sign the conditions and called Hamas ' action a violation of the law .
Mughani is close with the Fatah-led Palestinian government in the West Bank , which is headed by President Mahmoud Abbas .
Hamas , which took control of the Gaza Strip nearly two months ago , says it is aiming to reform the territory 's justice system .
Burma has released two lawyers who were convicted of contempt of court last year and sentenced to four months in prison .
Supreme court lawyers U Aung Thein and U Khin Maung Shein were released Friday after serving their full sentences .
The two lawyers had represented student activists .
Burma 's High Court sentenced them in November for what was described as a lack of respect for the court .
The Asian Human Rights Commission welcomed their release and expressed hope they will be permitted to continue practicing their profession .
The Hong-Kong-based group quoted U Aung Thein and U Khin Maung Shein as saying they had no chance to defend themselves .
The two said their clients withdrew their powers of attorney because they lost faith in the judicial process .
The Asian Human Rights Commission said Burma 's contempt-of-court law contains no guidance on how contempt is to be assessed and heard fairly .
An Ethiopian court has issued a death sentence to a former regional official charged with murder and with supporting an Eritrean-backed terror group .
The state-run Ethiopian News Agency reports that Jemua Ruphael Amen was found guilty and sentenced on Tuesday by the country 's Federal High Court .
The agency cited a statement from the Ministry of Justice that said Jemua had murdered " three innocent civilians . "
The statement also said Jemua formed a separatist movement in Benishangul Gumuz state and was carrying out terrorist attacks there with the Eritrean government .
The agency says Juma was once in charge of economic planning in the regional government .
Relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea have been tense since a 1998 to 2000 border war .
The countries often accuse each other of being behind various plots and attacks on each other 's territory .
A senior United Nations aid official says tents used to shelter Pakistan 's earthquake survivors are not adequate for the harsh winter setting into the Himalayan region .
Darren Boisvert , the U.N. official in charge of distributing shelter in the quake zone , said Friday more than 420,000 tents have been handed out , but that 90 percent of them have not been winterized .
He said some survivors were strengthening their shelters with plastic sheets and blankets .
Temperatures in the high mountains of Pakistani-controlled Kashmir have already fallen below freezing and snowfall is expected to increase in the coming weeks .
The October 8 earthquake killed more than 70,000 people and left nearly three million without shelter .
A purported Taleban commander says al-Qaida terror network chief Osama bin Laden and Taleban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar are both alive after more than three years on the run .
The commander , identified as Mullah Akhtar Usmani , told Pakistan 's private GEO Television both men are in good health but refused to say where they are .
He said Mullah Omar remains in command of the hard-line Islamic militia that formerly ruled Afghanistan .
The Taleban remnants have again become active and have been attacking U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan , who ousted them in late 2001 .
The commander , said to be Mullah Omar 's former deputy and now the head of Taleban operations , held a Kalashnikov assault rifle and partly covered his face with a black turban during the interview .
Top officials from countries neighboring Iraq are holding talks in Turkey to welcome the formation of the new government in Baghdad .
Diplomats from Iran , Jordan , Kuwait , Syria , Saudi Arabia and Turkey met in Istanbul Friday to set the agenda for talks by each country 's foreign minister on Saturday .
Representatives of regional power , Egypt , also attended the meeting .
Officials say the diplomats were to discuss the recent political developments in Iraq , and the next stages of the political process including the drafting of the nation 's constitution by the new government of Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
The participants also were expected to draft a statement of support for the new government .
Sources say the document will stress the political integrity and sovereignty of the war-torn country and will call for international support for Baghdad .
Lebanese and Israeli soldiers exchanged cross-border fire Wednesday , but no casualties were reported .
The Lebanese army says its soldiers opened fire on an Israeli bulldozer that crossed the border .
The Israeli army says its soldiers returned fire .
The Israeli forces were searching for explosives along the border , after discovering four bombs there Monday .
The Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah says it did not recently plant the bombs .
Hezbollah officials said Tuesday that the bombs were placed before last year 's war between Israel and Hezbollah .
Israeli officials have said they believe the bombs were placed in recent days under the cover of fog and rain .
If Hezbollah is responsible for placing explosives in recent days , it would mark a violation of a U.N.-brokered ceasefire agreement declared last August .
In July 2006 , Hezbollah abducted two Israeli soldiers in a cross-border raid , which started a month-long war between Israel and the militia .
Sudan 's government and southern rebels have signed an agreement promising to end the nation 's 21-year civil war by the end of the year .
A Sudanese government official and a negotiator from the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Movement put the December 31 deadline in writing Friday , at a rare meeting of the United Nations Security Council in Nairobi , Kenya .
Council members passed a resolution Friday urging Sudan 's government and southern rebels to make peace and linking future development aid to a comprehensive accord .
The resolution also called for an end to the 21-month-old conflict between the government and a separate rebel group in Darfur , which has left more than a million people displaced .
French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy has announced he will soon head to Colombia to try to win freedom for kidnapped former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt .
Colombian Marxist rebels kidnapped her in February 2002 while she campaigned .
Her father , the late Gabriel Betancourt , was a Colombian ambassador to France .
Mr. Douste-Blazy told French television Tuesday that in the name of human rights , it is unthinkable to leave her in such conditions .
Colombia 's main rebel group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , has already rejected a joint French-Spanish-Swiss proposed prisoner exchange with the Colombian government to win freedom for Ms. Betancourt and other hostages .
Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori has announced he will run for president again in the upcoming election .
Mr. Fujimori made the announcement at a news conference Thursday , in Japan .
He has been living in self-imposed exile in Japan since fleeing Peru in November 2000 in the midst of a corruption scandal .
He was granted Japanese nationality due to his ancestry , but last month received a new Peruvian passport .
Peruvian prosecutors have also petitioned Japan to extradite Mr. Fujimori so he can face criminal charges on allegations ranging from abuse of power and embezzlement to sanctioning a paramilitary death squad .
He has denied all the charges .
Peru 's congress has banned him from holding public office again until at least 2010 .
ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS Inc. said it plans to raise 175 million to 180 million Canadian dollars ( US $ 148.9 million to $ 153.3 million ) through a private placement of perpetual preferred shares .
Perpetual preferred shares are n't retractable by the holders , the company said .
Rogers said the shares will be convertible into Class B shares , but that the company has the option to redeem the shares before a conversion takes place .
A spokesman for the Toronto cable television and telecommunications concern said the coupon rate has n't yet been fixed , but will probably be set at around 8 % .
He declined to discuss other terms of the issue .
A new public opinion poll indicates that Americans ' support for the war in Iraq is at its lowest ever - and that in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina , most Americans are concerned Iraq is draining money and resources needed at home .
In a New York Times / CBS poll released Saturday , a record low number of those surveyed - only 44 percent - said the United States made the right decision in going to war in Iraq .
Fifty-two percent wanted troops to be withdrawn as soon as possible , even if it means leaving the country unstable .
Ninety percent said they would oppose cutting spending on domestic programs to continue funding the war .
The nationwide poll of more than 1,000 adults was conducted September 9 through 13 .
Panama and Chile have signed a free trade agreement that will eliminate nearly all tariffs between the nations within 10 years .
Signed Tuesday , the deal aims to improve access to markets , cross-border services and conflict resolution .
It also includes an environmental cooperation pact .
Panamanian officials say the pact will also help the tiny country to build its export industry .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says his country wants to cooperate with the new administration of U.S. President-elect Barack Obama , and to contribute to Middle East stability .
Mr. Assad made his remarks in an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel released Saturday .
Mr. Obama has said he may seek Syria 's help in curbing Iran 's controversial nuclear work .
In response , Mr. Assad said Damascus must be included in the process , and that Syria has long been isolated from the talks .
Mr. Assad also signaled Damascus is not ready to give up its ties to Iran .
He said good relations with the United States would not mean bad relations with Tehran .
Syria 's president encouraged Mr. Obama to become seriously involved in the Middle East peace process .
He said Syria must help in the process , together with the Europeans .
Venezuelan Foreign Minister Ali Rodriguez says his country and U.S. diplomats have agreed to discuss improving relations after weeks of increasingly sharp accusations between the two countries .
Mr. Rodriguez issued the statement following a meeting Thursday with U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela William Brownfield .
The meeting marks the first time Mr. Brownfield has held talks with a top official of the Caracas government since he arrived six months ago .
Mr. Rodriguez says they agreed to work on " sensitive " issues , and have also agreed to move forward in the areas of energy-related issues , drug trafficking , and terrorism .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez recently accused the U.S. government of plotting to assassinate him - an accusation the Bush administration has dismissed as " ridiculous . "
Mr. Chavez also has threatened to cut off oil sales to the United States .
A Turkish press report says Turkey will remove Iran from a watchlist of nations it considers as threats to its national security .
The newspaper Milliyet reported Monday that Turkey also will remove Russia , Iraq and Greece as primary threats in the so-called Red Book - a national security policy document .
The report said the updated list is part of a security review by Turkey 's National Security Council , which will be adopted in October .
The national security document was last revised in 2005 , when Islamic fundamentalism and Kurdish separatism were considered the greatest threats to Turkish security .
Turkey and Iran are active trading partners in the energy sector .
Turkey already buys a third of its gas imports from Iran and is looking to expand its relationship to power sales and the transit of Iranian gas to Europe .
Japan 's billion dollar Kibo science laboratory has been delivered to the International Space Station , and the astronauts have been installing and setting it up .
This week , crew members from shuttle Discovery and the space station have also been doing a little " home repair " on the station 's toilet .
Paul Sisco has a report on the week 's activities in space .
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner , and not being able to bear the unpleasant smell of the tan-yard , he pressed his neighbor to go away .
The Tanner put off his departure from time to time , saying that he would leave soon .
But as he still continued to stay , as time went on , the rich man became accustomed to the smell , and feeling no manner of inconvenience , made no further complaints .
China is objecting to a decision by Internet search engine Google to change maps referring to Taiwan as a province of China .
China 's state media report that officials are worried the decision may mislead people and give the impression of an independent Taiwan .
A Google spokesman told Xinhua the change was part of a regular update of all the site 's maps , rather than a deliberate effort to update the Taiwan page .
Earlier this month , Taiwan asked Google to stop listing it as a Chinese province on its maps .
Now Google maps simply call the island Taiwan .
Taiwan calls itself the Republic of China .
China views Taiwan as a breakaway province .
The two split in a civil war that ended in 1949 .
Britain 's upper house of parliament has rejected a plan that would have allowed a government minister to issue restraints against terrorism suspects .
The House of Lords Monday insisted that only a judge could issue orders to place suspects under curfew or impose bans on telephone and Internet use .
Prime Minister Tony Blair has been trying to push through new anti-terrorism laws before March 14 , when current security legislation expires .
The government last week conceded to lower-house demands that only a judge could issue orders for house arrest .
In the face of strong criticism by the opposition and some members of his own Labor Party , Mr. Blair was given a public boost for new legislation Sunday .
The recently retired head of London 's police force warned that there are at least 100 al-Qaida terrorists in Britain determined to carry out attacks there .
Softball is better than baseball because the Seventh Inning Stretch means stand up and go home .
Argentina 's government offered small farmers a package of benefits Monday in an effort to end a 19-day strike triggered by new , higher taxes .
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 's administration said it would give the farmers a rebate on the new export taxes on soy beans , sunflower seeds , and other grains .
The government also offered to subsidize the cost of transporting grain from farm to market .
President Fernandez has asked the farmers to lift the roadblocks they have constructed during the strike .
The roadblocks have caused food shortages and blocked the export of agricultural products .
Farm leaders rejected the president 's appeal and said the strike would continue at least through mid-week .
The strike began on March 13 , two days after the government raised the agricultural export taxes in an effort to redistribute wealth to the poor and control domestic food prices .
Syrian authorities say they have restored order at a prison near the capital , Damascus , after a riot there broke out Saturday .
The official SANA news agency says security forces took action at Sidnaya prison Sunday and put down the violent protest started by prisoners convicted of extremism and terror crimes .
The agency did not say whether there were any casualties .
But the London-based group - The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights - said rioting by Islamist inmates , some of whom have been held at Sidnaya without trial , continued Sunday .
The group said 25 prisoners were killed and many more wounded when security forces opened fire to end the disturbance , and that some prisoners fled to the roof , fearing for their lives .
A U.S. bankruptcy court is considering whether it has jurisdiction in a case filed by the embattled Russian oil giant Yukos .
Yukos filed the case with the court in Houston , Texas last year to stop a Russian court-ordered auction of its key production unit , Yuganskneftgaz .
The U.S. court issued an injunction against the sale , but it went on anyway .
Yukos assets in the United States are bank accounts and a home owned by the company 's financial chief .
Yukos is now suing Russian energy firms including the natural gas giant Gazprom and the state-owned Rosneft for $ 20 billion in damages .
A planned merger between Gazprom and Rosneft has been put on hold to wait for the decision from the U.S. court .
Critics call the Russian government probe of Yukos politically motivated because former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky had supported the opposition .
The Kremlin says Yukos owes billions in back taxes .
Iraq 's interior ministry has launched a probe into allegations that death squads are operating within the police force and targeting Sunni Arabs .
A senior official , Major-General Hussein Kamal , said the probe follows the arrest of 22 people dressed as police commandos , who were taking away a Sunni man to be shot .
An American general , Major General Joseph Peterson , told a U.S. daily , The Chicago Tribune , that the men were stopped by an Iraqi checkpoint in northern Iraq last month .
Sunnis often complain of atrocities by Iraqi police , most of whom are Shi'ite Muslims .
Meanwhile , Iraqi insurgents killed at least nine people in a series of attacks in Baghdad and northern Iraq Thursday .
And radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr arrived in Jordan today for talks with King Abdullah and other officials in coming days .
A CROW was jealous of the Raven , because he was considered a bird of good omen and always attracted the attention of men , who noted by his flight the good or evil course of future events .
Seeing some travelers approaching , the Crow flew up into a tree , and perching herself on one of the branches , cawed as loudly as she could .
The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what it foreboded , when one of them said to his companion , " Let us proceed on our journey , my friend , for it is only the caw of a crow , and her cry , you know , is no omen . "
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them , only make themselves ridiculous .
A new poll finds most Iraqis disapprove of the presence of American troops in their country , but are optimistic about this week 's election and the country 's future .
The ABC News poll , conducted with Time Magazine , says more than two-thirds of the Iraqis surveyed oppose having U.S.-led coalition troops in Iraq .
It says half say the U.S.-led invasion was wrong , up from 39 percent in early 2004 .
But it says 71 percent of Iraqis say their own lives are going well , with their economic situation improving .
The survey also says three-quarters of Iraqis expressed confidence in this week 's parliamentary vote , and 70 percent approve of Iraq 's constitution and want the country to remain unified .
Afghan officials say a kidnapped Italian aid worker is in good health and that her abductors have opened a channel of communication with authorities .
Italian aid worker Clementina Cantoni is seen in this file photo released by CARE International
Officials say they have spoken with the CARE International worker Clementina Cantoni , who was seized from her car in Kabul by four gunmen on Monday .
Italian embassy officials in Kabul confirmed that contact has been established with alleged abductors , but declined to provide details .
Earlier , Afghan police said a criminal gang kidnapped the woman and wanted to exchange her for its jailed leader and several accomplices .
Tuesday , about 200 Afghan widows , who have received help from the aid worker , staged a tearful demonstration , demanding her immediate release .
Iraqi judges have begun questioning two of Saddam Hussein 's top 11 lieutenants in preparation for war crimes trials involving the former regime .
The chief judge Raad al-Juhyi for the Special Tribunal , which is in charge of the trials , said Saddam 's cousin , Ali Hassan al-Majid , also known as " Chemical Ali , " appeared Saturday along with Saddam 's former defense minister , General Sultan Hashim Ahmad .
The hearings will examine the charges brought against the men , examine any evidence , and determine whether they should stand trial .
There are indications that Saddam likely will be tried last .
No formal charges have been announced against Chemical Ali or the former defense minister , but charges are likely to include crimes against the country 's Kurds and Shi'ites , as well as the 1990 invasion of neighboring Kuwait .
A New York art show chronicles the impact of the feminist movement on art between 1965 and 1980 .
The show features works by artists from around the world and includes paintings , sculptures and performance art .
VOA 's Behnam Nateghi toured the show at the P.S. One Contemporary Art Center .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Thousands of Syrians took to the streets of Damascus Monday to protest a U.N. probe they said unfairly blames the government for the killing of Lebanese former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri .
Damascus says the investigation was politically motivated and denies any involvement in the assassination .
The U.N. report , issued last week , implicated Lebanese and Syrian officials in the killing .
It said Syria 's cooperation in the probe was limited .
In an interview with British radio on Sunday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw called for international pressure against Syria .
Syria 's official news agency reported President Bashar al-Assad sent a message to members of the U.N. Security Council , which is expected to consider sanctions over the killing .
The International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) says a staff member who was kidnapped in Darfur three days ago is doing well and is in good spirits .
The kidnappers allowed Red Cross officials to speak with Gauthier Lefevre by telephone for the first time on Sunday .
Lefevre , a French national , was traveling in one of two clearly marked Red Cross vehicles when he was abducted Thursday near the town of Al Geneina in West Darfur .
The Red Cross says Lefevre was taken captive after he and another staffer had just completed a trip to help local communities upgrade their water systems .
The captors have not made any ransom demands .
Foreign aid groups have faced increased hostility in Darfur since the International Criminal Court indicted Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir in March for alleged war crimes .
Norwegian Frode Andresen has won a World Cup men 's biathlon sprint event in Ruhpolding , Germany , but Frenchman Raphael Poiree is the overall leader .
Andresen finished the 10-kilometer event in 25:03.5 seconds with one shooting miss .
Michael Rösch of Germany was second 3.8 seconds back with no penalties .
Michael Greis of German was third , 11.8 seconds behind Andresen with one shooting miss .
Poiree finished fourth in the race , more than 15 seconds behind the Norwegian , but leads the overall World Cup standings with 298 points after 10 events .
The men 's 12.5-kilometer pursuit race is Sunday at the same venue .
Biathlon combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting from a variety of positions .
Athletes must ski penalty laps for shooting misses .
Health officials in Pakistan have confirmed the country 's first human fatality caused by bird flu .
The Health Ministry says the victim worked at a poultry farm in Pakistan 's North West Frontier Province , near the border with Afghanistan .
Officials say the brother of the man infected with avian influenza also died recently , but he was not tested for the disease .
At least five other people from the same border region have recently been confirmed as suffering from the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Pakistani authorities say two have recovered , and the remaining patients are in quarantine .
The World Health Organization said Saturday it was aware of eight suspected human cases of H5N1 bird flu in Pakistan 's Peshawar region .
The Geneva-based organisation says it is providing technical support to the country 's Health Ministry .
WHO says more than 200 people have died of bird flu worldwide since 2003 .
A U.S. newspaper reports that American officials are reviewing a second Dubai company 's plans to acquire interests in the United States .
The Washington Post says Thursday the review involves plans by Dubai International Capital to take over a British firm , Doncasters Group that makes parts for U.S. defense contractors .
The company confirms it is seeking U.S. approval for the billion-dollar deal .
The report comes days after another Dubai firm , Dubai Ports World and U.S. officials agreed to a new , broader review of its plans to take over some operations in six U.S. ports .
The port deal has angered U.S. lawmakers from both parties , who say they were not informed about the plan before its approval .
The Post also reports that U.S. officials are reviewing an Israeli company 's bid to buy a software security firm that does business with the Defense Department .
Sliders Preston Griffal and Dan Joye have earned the second U.S. Olympic luge team doubles berth by beating countrymen Christian Niccum and Patrick Quinn .
Griffal and Joye won in the two-run competition by 0.12 seconds Wednesday in Lake Placid , New York .
They will join two-time Olympic medalists Mark Grimmette and Brian Martinin the doubles competition .
Niccum will still compete in singles luge but Quinn will not compete in the Turin Winter Games .
Meanwhile , the final men 's singles spot on the U.S. team goes to Jonathan Myles , who beat compatriot Chris Mazdzer by 0.161 seconds .
Myles and Niccum join medal hopeful Tony Benshoofin the men 's singles .
The U.S. women 's luge team , named last week , will be Samantha Retrosi , Erin Hamlin and Courtney Zablocki .
The U.S. economy shrank at a 5.7 percent annual pace in the first three months of this year .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department said the decline was a bit less ( 0.4 percent ) than estimated earlier , and better than the prior quarter .
Many government economic experts and private economists say the worst of the recession may have passed , and they predict slow economic growth will resume later this year .
Other economic reports Friday showed U.S. business activity declining faster in a key region , while consumers grew less pessimistic .
Consumer sentiment hit its highest level since September , but remained at a relatively low level .
Economists track consumer confidence for clues about the consumer demand that drives most U.S. economic activity .
A separate report from an industry group said the pace of business activity in the U.S. Midwest fell even faster in May than in the previous month .
The leader of the world 's largest Muslim organization has warned Thai officials that using military force to try to end the unrest in Thailand 's south will only make the extremists stronger .
The chairman of the Indonesia-based Nahdlatul Ulama , Hasyim Muzadi , gave the warning in Bangkok where he is meeting with Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and King Bhumibol Adulyadej on ways to end the unrest .
Mr. Thaksin and Mr. Muzadi agreed that improved education in the south will help boost living standards and end economic problems that contribute to violence .
Later this week , Mr. Muzadi will travel to Thailand 's three Muslim-majority southern provinces to meet Muslim leaders and leading Thai Buddhist monks .
More than 650 people have been killed in separatist violence in southern Thailand since the beginning of 2004 .
Thousands of Peruvians took to the streets of the capital , Lima , Tuesday to demand the extradition of former President Alberto Fujimori from Chile .
Reports from the scene say the protest was led by human rights groups and labor unions seeking to have the former president returned to Chile , where he faces charges of corruption and of authorizing death squads during his 10-year presidency .
Mr. Fujimori fled to Japan and faxed his resignation letter to Peru in the midst of a corruption scandal in 2000 .
He was arrested when he traveled to Chile last week .
Meanwhile , the Santiago Court of Appeals Tuesday turned down a motion by a private citizen to free the former president .
The citizen 's connection to the case was not clear .
This means Mr. Fujimori will remain under arrest .
Angola says the outbreak of the deadly Marburg virus , which has already killed 244 people , appears to be under control .
Health ministry officials in Luanda Friday said the virus , which has already stricken 266 people , has largely been confined to the northwestern province of Uige .
A spokesman said four neighboring provinces , including the capital where doctors previously detected infections , have not reported any new cases .
International aid groups , including the World Health Organization , are working to control the highly contagious and incurable virus .
Experts say the Ebola-like virus , which is spread through contact with bodily fluids , can be contained with relatively simple hygienic precautions .
Previously , the most serious outbreak of the disease occurred in the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo , killing at least 123 between 1998 and 2000 .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is expected to buy more military equipment when he visits Russia later this month .
The government of Venezuela announced Thursday that Mr. Chavez will meet with Russian President Dmitri Medvedev on July 22 , when he begins a five-day European tour .
The statement said President Chavez plans to buy new military hardware , including tanks .
Venezuela has already purchased $ 3 billion in Russian fighter jets , helicopters and guns .
The two leaders are also expected to discuss setting up a joint bank and the development of industrial and technological projects .
Bomb attacks have killed nearly 70 people in Iraq , including about 50 who died in a double truck bomb explosion .
More than 100 people were wounded in the twin truck bombing Tuesday in the northern town of Tal Afar .
Hours earlier , a suicide bomber killed 10 people and wounded 25 near the city of Ramadi .
The U.S. military also said two Marines died in separate incidents during combat operations in volatile al-Anbar province .
On the political front , Iraq 's prime minister and president have introduced legislation to make it easier for former members of Saddam Hussein 's Baath party to resume working in government and security positions .
Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih said the measure is necessary for national reconciliation .
The cabinet and parliament still must approve the legislation .
The United States ' Supreme Court has essentially revived a case against senior U.S. military officials launched by former detainees at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The justices Monday ordered an appeals court in Washington to reconsider its January 2008 dismissal of a lawsuit brought by four British men .
The former detainees say they were tortured and prevented from freely practicing Islam during their imprisonment at the U.S. military detention facility .
They argue that their treatment violated the U.S. Religious Freedom Restoration Act .
The Supreme Court says the lower court must review the case based on the high court 's ruling in June .
At that time , the Supreme Court said foreign terrorism suspects held at Guantanamo can challenge their detentions in civilian courts .
The Bush administration has repeatedly said detainees in U.S. custody are treated humanely .
About 250 men are still being held at Guantanamo .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is warning against irresponsible borrowing or lending to countries that have recently received debt relief .
Speaking in Singapore Monday to the World Bank 's policy-setting committee , Paulson said the organization should develop an approach that prevents a reemergence of debt distress .
He did not single out any country , but stressed that creditors are still providing large loans to countries that have recently received debt relief .
China , in particular , has come under fire for providing loans to many countries in Africa that have only recently had large debts forgiven .
Annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund take place in Singapore Tuesday and Wednesday .
Turkish government ministers and representatives of the poultry industry are meeting Saturday to discuss how to minimize the economic effects of the bird flu outbreak .
Deputy Prime Minister Abdulatif Sener told reporters ahead of the meeting in Ankara the group will try to find a solution to the problem .
He says any measures must have Cabinet approval .
Industry experts say poultry sales in the country have dropped by 70 percent since the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu was reported in humans in Turkey late last month and killed three people - the first bird flu deaths outside Asia .
In another development , Belgian officials say a person has been hospitalized in Brussels with suspected bird flu after visiting the region in Turkey hit by the disease .
The officials gave no other details .
Riot police have clashed with thousands of demonstrators in Indian Kashmir 's summer capital , Srinagar .
Police fired teargas to disperse up to 4,000 people who took to the streets Saturday to protest the shooting death of a musician by security forces .
At least six police officers were injured in the clashes .
Witnesses say police officers fired at 31-year-old composer Inayatullah Bhat late Friday near his home in Srinagar .
A police spokesman said police acted when Bhat refused orders to stop , but residents say the musician was on a routine stroll .
India has been fighting a separatist movement in its predominantly Muslim area of divided Kashmir since 1989 .
The NATO-led force in Afghanistan says three of its soldiers have been killed in bomb attacks .
NATO says two service members were killed by a bomb blast in the east , while another died in an explosion in the south .
It did not give further details .
More than 530 foreign troops have been killed in Afghanistan this year , making it the deadliest year for international forces since the U.S.-led invasion in 2001 .
Also Saturday , NATO said Afghan and coalition forces killed more than 30 insurgents in an operation in eastern Laghman province .
In a separate operation in Paktika province , NATO said its forces killed a Taliban commander who helped conduct bombings and was directly linked to attacks during last week 's parliamentary elections .
The commander was reported killed in an air strike Friday .
NATO said at least two other Taliban commanders were captured this week .
A senior Palestinian security official says there is progress in efforts to free two Western journalists abducted in Gaza nearly two weeks ago .
Interior Minister Said Siyam , of the militant Islamic group Hamas , said Friday officials are attempting to secure the release of the men .
He did not elaborate .
His statement was the first upbeat assessment by Palestinian officials since gunmen seized Fox correspondent , American Steve Centanni , and cameraman Olaf Wiig of New Zealand on August 14 .
On Thursday , Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh condemned the kidnapping and called for the release of the men .
A group calling itself the Holy Jihad Brigades said it is holding the two journalists .
It demanded that the U.S. release Muslim prisoners it is holding by Saturday .
A United Nations war crimes court has sentenced a former Rwandan mayor to 15 years in prison for his role in the 1994 genocide .
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda accepted a plea bargain in which Paul Bisengimina pled guilty to two counts of murder and extermination .
In exchange , the prosecution dropped eight other charges .
The 58-year-old Bisengimina was mayor of Gikoro in 1994 and was involved in the slaughter of minority Tutsis who had sought refuge at a church .
Presiding Judge Arlete Ramaroson said Thursday that Bisengimina 's guilty plea could encourage others to come forward and confess their crimes .
Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus during the 1994 three-month killing spree .
A priest who was walking through a small town saw a blackboard outside the front door of a school .
It had been washed and put out to dry in the open air .
There was a piece of chalk at the foot of the blackboard .
The priest took the chalk and wrote in large letters , " I 'm a priest and I pray for you all . "
A lawyer happened to pass next and when he saw what the priest had written , he added under it , " I 'm a lawyer and I defend you all . "
Then , a doctor came by , took the piece of chalk , and wrote on the blackboard , " I 'm a doctor and I cure you all . "
Finally , an ordinary citizen stopped , looked at what the others had written , thought for a few seconds and then added , " I am an ordinary citizen and I pay for you all . "
A U.S. official says the United States is willing to give Iran more time to consider a key uranium enrichment deal that will yield fuel for an Iranian nuclear research reactor .
Washington 's envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency , Glyn Davies , told reporters in Vienna Monday that , in his words , " we want to give Iran some space . "
Davies also noted the negotiations have gone beyond the scheduled time frame .
Iran has not officially responded to a U.N.-backed uranium-enrichment proposal that was drafted three weeks ago in Vienna .
But leading Iranian parliamentarian Alaeddin Boroujerdi Saturday indicated Tehran will reject the plan to send any of its 1,200 kilograms of enriched uranium abroad for further enrichment .
IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei had asked for the parties involved with the proposal ( Iran , the United States , Russia and France ) to respond by October 23 .
Early returns in Colombia 's legislative elections indicate majority support of Colombian President Alvaro Uribe .
With at least 34 percent of the vote counted supporters of President Uribe 's tough stance on rebel forces seem likely to win a majority of the 102 senate seats that were being contested .
Sunday 's election , which also selected 166 members of the lower house , was widely viewed as a test of Mr. Uribe 's popularity .
He is up for re-election in May .
The leftist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , known as FARC , had stepped up attacks in advance of the election , killing dozens of civilians in the past few weeks .
But the elections , themselves , were peaceful amid heavy security .
Rightwing paramilitaries , who have made peace overtures to the Colombian government , have been campaigning for congressional allies .
Egyptian authorities say the death toll from a massive rockslide in a poor Cairo neighborhood has risen to at least 72 , while many more bodies are feared to remain under the rubble .
Security officials Thursday added to the official death toll with the discovery of more bodies , five days after giant rocks fell from the limestone cliff above the Manshiyet Nasr slum .
Residents have clashed with rescue workers out of anger over what they consider an inadequate response to the disaster .
Rescuers have had to work mostly by hand to remove debris because streets in the neighborhood are too narrow for large machinery .
Officials say rockslides are frequent in the area .
Despite its small size and limited natural resources , Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous , highly industrialized , free-enterprise economy with a vital financial service sector and likely the second highest per capita income in the world .
The Liechtenstein economy is widely diversified with a large number of small businesses .
Low business taxes - the maximum tax rate is 20 % - and easy incorporation rules have induced many holding companies to establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein providing 30 % of state revenues .
The country participates in a customs union with Switzerland and uses the Swiss franc as its national currency .
It imports more than 90 % of its energy requirements .
Liechtenstein has been a member of the European Economic Area ( an organization serving as a bridge between the European Free Trade Association ( EFTA ) and the EU ) since May 1995 .
The government is working to harmonize its economic policies with those of an integrated Europe .
In 2008 , Liechtenstein came under renewed international pressure - particularly from Germany - to improve transparency in its banking and tax systems .
In December 2008 , Liechtenstein signed a Tax Information Exchange Agreement with the US .
Upon Liechtenstein 's conclusion of 12 bilateral information-sharing agreements , the OECD in October 2009 removed the principality from its " grey list " of countries that had yet to implement the organization 's Model Tax Convention .
By the end of 2010 , Liechtenstein had signed 25 Tax Information Exchange Agreements or Double Tax Agreements .
The U.S. State Department says the human rights situation in China remains poor and the government continues to commit numerous and serious abuses .
The department 's annual human rights report says there has been a trend towards increased harassment , detention and imprisonment of those perceived as a threat to authority in China .
The report says the Chinese government has also adopted measures to more tightly control print , broadcast and electronic media .
The report did note efforts to make legal reforms in the past year , but those efforts stalled .
The government did adopt new protections for religious groups .
Also in East Asia , the State Department reports North Korea remains an absolute dictatorship where the government 's human rights record is extremely poor .
The report says the human rights record of Burma 's military government also worsened over the year .
The most valuable player of Major League Baseball 's 2003 World Series has a new one-year contract with the Florida Marlins .
Pitcher Josh Beckett avoided arbitration Tuesday by signing a deal worth $ 2.4 million .
He earned $ 1.5 million last year .
Considered one of Major League Baseball 's top young pitchers , the 24-year-old Beckett battled injuries last season and had three separate stints on the disabled list .
He posted a 9-9 record with an earned run average of 3.76 in 29 starts overall in 2004 .
Beckett enjoyed his greatest success in the 2003 postseason , helping the Marlins to their second championship when he went 2-2 in six games , including a win and loss in two World Series starts against the New York Yankees .
Kenyan police say they have arrested two Germans and a Dutch national on suspicion of terrorist activities .
Police spokesman Eric Kiraithe says the three were arrested at Nairobi 's international airport late Thursday as they attempted to leave the country .
The three have been identified as Germans Andrej Hermlin and Gerd Uwe , along with a Dutch woman , Fleur van Dissel .
Kiraithe says the suspects entered the country as journalists but have " been conducting themselves in a suspicious manner . "
He says the three took video footage of security installations in the country .
The spokesman says police are still investigating the incident .
A top Russian lawmaker is denying a newspaper report that Russia has helped Iran acquire ballistic missile technology that would bring much of Europe within target range .
Konstantin Kosachyov , who chairs the Duma 's International Affairs Committee , told the Interfax news agency Sunday that Russia could not and did not cooperate on such a project .
He responded to a report published Sunday in London 's Sunday Telegraph , saying that members of the Russian military acted as go-betweens with North Korea and Iran .
The report , which cited unidentified Western intelligence sources , says the deal enabled Teheran to get shipments of top-secret missile technology capable of delivering a nuclear weapon 3,500 kilometers .
Moscow itself falls within that range .
Mr. Kosachyov urged Russian agencies to respond to the report to prevent what he called a spiraling of speculation .
Iraqi officials say former dictator Saddam Hussein will go on trial in the second half of October , so as not to affect the outcome of a national referendum on the constitution to be held October 15 .
No official announcement has come from the Iraqi Special Tribunal in charge of the trials , but officials close to the case said Friday that Saddam Hussein will be tried for the 1982 killing of dozens of residents of the town of Dujail .
The killings were allegedly in retaliation for a failed assassination attempt against him there .
Later , Saddam Hussein is expected to be tried for other alleged crimes , including the 1988 gassing of Kurds in Halabja and the 1991 suppression of a Shi'ite uprising in southern Iraq .
The news that the 17-year-old unmarried daughter of Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin is pregnant has brought the issues of teen sex and sex education into the media spotlight .
For the first time in 15 years , the teen birth rate in America is on the rise .
As Brian Padden reports , the issues of sexual activity by teens and how information about sex is conveyed to them in school are highly controversial .
An insurgent group in Iraq has released a videotape that purports to show the suicide bomber who killed 22 people last week at a U.S. military base in the Iraqi city of Mosul .
The video is posted on the Army of Ansar al-Sunna web site .
In it , a masked man displays a map of the U.S. installation and describes plans for the attack .
Another masked man , identified as the bomber , embraces colleagues .
The video then shows what appears to be the explosion that ripped through the dining tent on Tuesday .
In other developments , masked gunmen Sunday killed a high-ranking Iraqi security officer and wounded several of his bodyguards in Baghdad .
Separately , a roadside bomb wounded three U.S. soldiers traveling in a convoy in Mosul .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has called for an investigation into U.S.-based CNN , saying the news network was seeking his assassination after its Spanish-language channel ran an image of him next to a caption that read , " Who killed him ? "
CNN issued an apology over Tuesday 's video mix-up , saying the caption had been meant for a story about Washington Redskins football star Sean Taylor , who died Tuesday in Florida of a gunshot wound .
But President Chavez said he doubted the caption was broadcast next to his image by mistake and called on his attorney general to probe the incident .
He accused the network of possibly seeking to " instigate a political assassination . "
Mr. Chavez , who was briefly ousted in a 2002 coup , has often reported alleged attempts to assassinate him but without offering significant evidence .
Philippine military aircraft are rushing relief supplies to parts of the country devastated this week by heavy rains , flooding and mudslides caused by two typhoons .
Cargo planes and helicopters delivered food , water , and medical supplies Saturday to residents on the northeastern coast of the main island of Luzon .
President Gloria Arroyo visited towns in some of the hardest hit areas , and she declared a ban on commercial logging , which has been blamed for some of the mudslides .
Authorities estimate at least 1,000 people are either dead or missing .
International aid organizations and a number of countries have pledged millions of dollars in aid , and the United Nations says it is sending a team of experts to assist with recovery efforts .
The Iraqi government is urging voters to approve a new constitution Saturday , and says Iraqis should stand firm against insurgents trying to stop the referendum .
In Baghdad Sunday , government spokesman Laith Kuba compared insurgents to rats , saying they spread disease and death among the people .
Earlier , a suicide car bomb exploded in southern Iraq outside an apartment building used by a Shi'ite militia .
At least one child was reported killed in the blast and several others wounded .
The attack in Basra appeared aimed at the Iranian-backed Badr Brigade militia .
News reports say Basra 's former governor Hassan al-Rashid , a senior militia leader , escaped unharmed .
Separately , the U.S. military says a Marine was killed late Saturday in Ramadi when a bomb blast ripped through his vehicle .
U.S. military officials say elements of the Russian Air Force will join U.S. and Canadian air units in the first-ever joint air defense exercises between the former Cold War foes .
A statement from the North American Aerospace Defense Command , NORAD , says the maneuvers - set to begin August 8 - will include training to detect and combat terrorist attacks on commercial airliners .
The exercises , code-named Vigilant Eagle , will be coordinated from a U.S. military command center at Elmendorf air base in Alaska and Russian facilities near the Far Eastern city of Khabarovsk .
Russian Air Force spokesman , Lieutenant Colonel Vladimir Drik , described the exercises as part of a working plan to improve cooperation between Russian and U.S. forces .
A NORAD statement said the maneuvers will require both the Russian and NORAD bases to launch or divert fighter planes to investigate and shadow commercial aircraft .
The U.S. business newspaper The Wall Street Journal says a United Nations study of problems with the U.N. oil-for-food program in Iraq will criticize Secretary-General Kofi Annan for a series of management lapses , among them conflicts of interest involving Mr. Annan 's son , Kojo .
An investigative panel headed by former U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker is expected to criticize Mr. Annan for failing to take action to correct flaws in the U.N. bureaucracy that allowed problems to develop in the $ 40 billion oil-for-food program .
The Wall Street Journal says the U.N. report will find that Mr. Annan held at least four meetings with Cotecna , a Swiss company that held lucrative United Nations contracts and also employed Mr. Annan 's son , Kojo .
The new report , the second of three to be issued by the Volcker commission this year , is due to be made public on Tuesday .
Math is like love ; a simple idea , but it can get complicated .
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has signed a bill capping greenhouse gas emissions in the Western U.S. state -- a law he says will change the course of history .
The Republican governor signed the bill Wednesday in a ceremony on Treasure Island in San Francisco Bay .
The new law makes California the first U.S. state to move beyond the federal government and impose its own greenhouse gas limits .
The law requires major energy companies in the state to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 25 percent by 2020 .
Schwarzenegger said California is entering a bold new era of environmental protection .
He said people must do everything in their power to slow down global warming before it is too late .
Many scientists blame pollution from cars , factories , and power plants for global warming while others say natural climate changes are causing the planet to warm .
Fugitive Taleban leader Mullah Omar says he is confident his followers will drive foreign troops out of Afghanistan .
The message was sent to news agencies Friday .
In it , he says Afghanistan has a history of expelling its enemies by force and that no aggressive force has left the country willingly .
Omar also dismissed a proposal by Afghan and Pakistani officials to hold tribal councils on both sides of their border to end the violence .
He said the councils are a " trap " created by aggressors and puppets .
The authenticity of the message could not be verified .
The U.S. government has offered a $ 10 million reward for Omar 's arrest .
He went into hiding shortly after U.S.-led forces forced the Taleban from power in Afghanistan in 2001 .
A top U.S. lawmaker says he has urged North Korea to return to the six-party talks over its nuclear weapons program .
Congressman Tom Lantos - a Democrat from the western U.S. state of California - spoke in Beijing Tuesday after three days of talks with high-ranking North Korean officials including the vice president of the Presidium of the Supreme People 's Assembly , Yang Hyong-sop , and Foreign Minister Paek Nam Sun .
Mr. Lantos says the officials told him they support a resumption of the talks , but want to see the shape of President Bush 's second administration before making any commitments .
However , Mr. Lantos says there is no reason for Pyongyang to expect a significant change in U.S. policy towards the Korean peninsula .
North Korea has participated in three rounds of multi-party talks on its nuclear ambitions , but boycotted a fourth round scheduled for September because of what it called Washington 's hostile policy .
The Swiss Confederation was founded in 1291 as a defensive alliance among three cantons .
In succeeding years , other localities joined the original three .
The Swiss Confederation secured its independence from the Holy Roman Empire in 1499 .
A constitution of 1848 , subsequently modified in 1874 , replaced the confederation with a centralized federal government .
Switzerland 's sovereignty and neutrality have long been honored by the major European powers , and the country was not involved in either of the two world wars .
The political and economic integration of Europe over the past half century , as well as Switzerland 's role in many UN and international organizations , has strengthened Switzerland 's ties with its neighbors .
However , the country did not officially become a UN member until 2002 .
Switzerland remains active in many UN and international organizations but retains a strong commitment to neutrality .
Afghanistan 's education minister says the government will never allow the Taleban to set up schools in the south of the country .
Mohammad Hanif Atmar told a news conference Monday that a Taleban vow to open schools in Afghanistan was an excuse for setting up terrorist training centers in the country .
A Taleban spokesman , Abdul Hai Muthmahien , said by telephone from a secret location late Saturday that the schools would be set up beginning in March to " counter propaganda of the West and its puppets against Islam . "
Atmar says Taleban militants had burned 183 schools in the past year and killed 61 students and teachers .
He says Taleban violence had also closed down nearly 400 schools in areas where the militants said they would set them up .
Uruguay 's economy is characterized by an export-oriented agricultural sector , a well-educated work force , and high levels of social spending .
Following financial difficulties in the late 1990s and early 2000s , economic growth for Uruguay averaged 8 % annually during the period 2004 - 08 .
The 2008 - 09 global financial crisis put a brake on Uruguay 's vigorous growth , which decelerated to 2.9 % in 2009 .
Nevertheless , the country managed to avoid a recession and keep positive growth rates , mainly through higher public expenditure and investment , and GDP growth exceeded 8 % in 2010 .
U.S. authorities started a man-made flood in the Grand Canyon Wednesday in an attempt to help the canyon 's ecosystem .
Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne pulled a lever releasing water from the Glen Canyon Dam , which regulates the flow of the Colorado River .
He said the flooding is meant to help redistribute sediment deposits to rebuild beaches downstream .
Kempthorne said the water is being released at a rate that would fill the Empire State Building - New York City 's tallest skyscraper - in 20 minutes .
Authorities conducted similar experiments in 1996 and 2004 .
Critics of the move say they fear the sudden change will damage wildlife habitats and affect endangered species .
The superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park , Steve Martin told the Los Angeles Times he fears there are non-environmental motives for the flooding , suggesting it is well-timed to aid hydroelectric power producers preparing for high demand during the upcoming summer months .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least five people and wounded 17 others in Baghdad , shattering a lull in insurgent attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Iraqi and U.S. forces launched a massive sweep for militants in Baghdad two weeks ago .
About 1,000 suspects have been arrested and the number of attacks has dropped .
But a U.S. military commander says he can not declare victory and warns that insurgents are looking for the chance to carry out large-scale attacks in Baghdad .
The U.S military says a roadside bomb killed five Marines Thursday in Iraq 's western Anbar province .
Also in Anbar Friday , police found the bodies of 21 Iraqi men who were apparently executed .
Some of them had been beheaded .
Authorities believe the victims were kidnapped Iraqi soldiers .
Iraqi negotiators are struggling to reach an agreement on a new constitution before a Monday deadline , as hundreds marched to press their demands for a new government .
Officials said Saturday they were nearing agreement on a Shi'ite demand to enshrine Islam as the only source of legislation .
Kurdish officials said they still oppose the move .
But negotiators say the United States may be prepared to drop its objections to having Islam as the sole basis of a new Iraqi government .
Saturday 's talks also focused on granting self-determination to Iraqi Kurds .
Meanwhile , hundreds of Sunni Arabs in Ramadi and Kirkuk marched against the possibility of a federal Iraq , saying they want a strong central government .
If completed by Monday , the new constitution will be voted on in an October referendum .
Malawai 's Vice President Cassim Chilumpha has been arrested on charges of plotting to overthrow the government .
The Minister of Justice says the vice president was plotting with associates to hire an assassin to kill Malawi 's President Bingu wa Mutharika .
He told local media he has taped conversations of Chilumpha 's meetings with the would-be assassin .
In February , Mr. Mutharika tried to fire the vice president for failing to attend cabinet meetings , among other charges .
Malawi 's high court reinstated Chilumpha last month .
Mr. Mutharika and Chilumpha were running mates in the 2004 elections , but have been feuding since the president quit the United Political Party and created his own political party .
Officials in Somalia say insurgents have killed two people and wounded two others in an attack on an army camp near Baidoa , the home of the transitional parliament .
The Islamist insurgent group Shabab claimed responsibility for the attack on the Daynunay military base .
Two days ago , Shabab insurgents fired mortars at the presidential palace and airport in Baidoa , killing at least two soldiers and wounding seven .
Somali 's government dismissed that attack as a publicity stunt for the insurgent group , and said that Baidoa is functioning and safe .
Insurgents have briefly overrun more a dozen towns in Somalia in recent months in their fight against the interim government and its Ethiopian military allies .
Ethiopian troops entered Somalia two years ago to help the interim government fight an Islamist movement that was threatening to take over the country .
Somalia has been continuously torn by conflict since the fall of the last stable government in 1991 .
U.S. pharmaceutical giant , Merck , says a recent study showed a new experimental vaccine to be 100 percent effective for the short-term in blocking two viruses that can cause cervical cancer in women .
Merck said Thursday , its Gardasil vaccine blocks infection from Human Papillovirus 16 and 18 - which both cause about 70 percent of all cases of cervical cancer .
The drug company said the trial among 12,000 women from 13 countries also found that Gardasil blocks cervical lesions that could become cancerous .
Sexually transmitted viruses known as HPVs strike about 75 percent of all women at some time in their lives , and kill almost 300,000 women without healthy immune systems ever year .
A separate study earlier this year found that a vaccine developed by British firm , GlaxoSmithKline , was 92 percent effective in blocking cancer from four HPVs .
At least 35,000 people have rallied in Pakistan 's largest city , Karachi , to protest controversial cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad .
Shouting anti-American and anti-European slogans , the demonstrators marched through the city to denounce the cartoons , first published in Denmark last September .
A coalition of radical Islamic groups which opposes President Pervez Musharraf 's support for the U.S.-led war on terror organized Sunday 's rally .
Hundreds of riot police closely watched the gathering but no violence was reported .
Some protests in Pakistan have turned deadly and at least five people died in rioting last month .
Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says a suspected suicide bomber has tried to kill the governor of southern Helmand province by detonating a car bomb outside his office .
A ministry spokesman says the blast occurred Monday just before key local officials were to meet at the governor 's office .
The governor was not hurt in the explosion but the bomber , who was described as a foreigner , was seriously wounded .
He later died in a local hospital .
A man claiming to be a Taleban spokesman said the attacker was a local Taleban activist .
The ousted Taleban regime and its supporters have recently stepped up insurgent activities mainly in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Since 1997 , Sudan has been working with the IMF to implement macroeconomic reforms including a managed float of the exchange rate and a large reserve of foreign exchange .
A new currency , the Sudanese Pound , was introduced in January 2007 at an initial exchange rate of $ 1.00 equals 2 Sudanese Pounds .
Sudan began exporting crude oil in the last quarter of 1999 and the economy boomed on the back of increases in oil production , high oil prices , and significant inflows of foreign direct investment until the second half of 2008 .
The Darfur conflict , the aftermath of two decades of civil war in the south , the lack of basic infrastructure in large areas , and a reliance by much of the population on subsistence agriculture ensure much of the population will remain at or below the poverty line for years to come despite rapid rises in average per capita income .
Sudan 's real GDP expanded by 5.2 % during 2010 , an improvement over 2009 's 4.2 % growth but significantly below the more than 10 % per year growth experienced prior to the global financial crisis in 2006 and 2007 .
While the oil sector continues to drive growth , services and utilities play an increasingly important role in the economy with agriculture production remaining important as it employs 80 % of the work force and contributes a third of GDP .
In the lead up to the referendum on southern secession , which took place in January 2011 , Sudan saw its currency depreciate considerably on the black market with the Central Bank 's official rate also losing value as the Sudanese people started to hoard foreign currency .
The Central Bank of Sudan intervened heavily in the currency market to defend the value of the pound and the Sudanese government introduced a number of measures to restrain excess local demand for hard currency , but uncertainty about the secession has meant that foreign exchange remains in heavy demand .
Military sources in Chad say the commander of its army has died from injuries sustained during a firefight with rebel forces .
General Abakar Yusuf Itno was wounded Thursday near the eastern Chadian town of Adre .
The sources say the rebels were backed by Janjaweed Arab militia forces who crossed the border from neighboring Sudan .
Itno was the nephew of President Idriss Deby .
Mr. Deby has been trying to quell a rebellion launched against his government by a group known as the Rally for Democracy and Liberty .
He has accused Sudan of backing rebel efforts to overthrow him .
The Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militias have been fighting with rebels in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The fighting has left some 180,000 people dead and another two million homeless .
An unknown group in Iraq says it has abducted two Egyptian engineers .
In an unauthenticated Internet statement , the Nationalist Movement to Free Iraq says the hostages are being interrogated about why they are in the country .
In an accompanying video , two men are shown holding identification cards showing them to work for an Iraqi company .
Meanwhile , an Iraqi-born Swedish citizen who had been held captive since January , says his kidnappers let him go Friday without a ransom being paid .
The Iraqi Vengeance Brigade had threatened to behead Minas al-Yousifi , the head of the Iraqi Christian Democratic party unless a large ransom was paid and U.S. troops withdrew from Iraq .
The United Nations food agency says a lack of funds has left three million Ethiopians who rely on food aid in danger of malnutrition .
The World Food Program ( WFP ) appealed for $ 33 million Tuesday so that it can continue providing food in Ethiopia for the next two and a half months .
It says it has received only slightly more than half of the $ 212 million it needs this year for food aid in Ethiopia .
The agency says it has less than 20 percent of what it needs for non-food items such as health , water and sanitation facilities .
The WFP says malnutrition rates are on the rise in Ethiopia , with the situation especially bad in the eastern Somali region .
There , the WFP says nearly five percent of children are severely malnourished .
I 'm not saying that the customer service in my bank is bad , but when I went in the other day and asked the clerk to check my balance ... she leaned over and pushed me .
The presidents of Benin and Nigeria have helped launch a program to vaccinate 40 million children in the region against polio .
Benin 's President Mathieu Kerekou and his Nigerian counterpart Olusegun Obasanjo met on their shared border Sunday to drop vaccine into babies ' mouths to start the campaign .
The World Health Organization is backing the effort aimed at reversing a surge in polio cases which started in Nigeria .
In late 2003 , Islamic leaders in northwestern Nigeria suspended immunizations , claiming the WHO had supplied a vaccine that would cause sterility .
Health officials denied the claim .
The WHO said the ban caused the number of polio cases in West Africa to double last year .
Nigerian leaders last year agreed to resume anti-polio efforts , using a different vaccine .
The United Nations is sending a veteran Portuguese diplomat to war-torn Ivory Coast to help organize presidential elections in October .
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan Friday chose Antonio Monteiro for the job , a former Portuguese foreign minister and U.N. ambassador .
He is tasked with ensuring the elections are open , free and fair .
Last month , Ivory Coast 's warring parties renewed pledges to abide by an April peace deal brokered by South Africa , which includes holding elections on October 30 .
Several previous deals failed to take hold because of political disagreements and delays by both the government and rebels to disarm .
Ivory Coast has been split in two , with rebels in the north and the government in control of the south , since a failed coup attempt in 2002 .
Iraqi officials say suicide bombing in the north killed 2 people , including a district council chief .
Police say the attacker targeted the local politician 's car Monday in the city of Tal Afar .
One of the politician 's bodyguards also was killed .
In another development , Iraqi authorities say a court has sentenced a deputy minister of transport to eight years in prison for corruption .
Adnan al-Obeidi was arrested in September on suspicion of trying to extort half a million dollars from a foreign security company in return for granting it a contract .
Iraqi officials say the company informed anti-corruption officials about the extortion attempt and worked with authorities to catch al-Obeidi in the act of taking a bribe .
Police later filmed him demanding $ 100,000 as a first installment of the bribe .
News reports from Brazil say police and suspected armed gang members have clashed again Sunday in Rio de Janeiro , but city officials are boosting security and moving forward with plans for traditionally massive New Year 's eve celebrations .
Early Sunday , gangs fired on police stations , but there were no reports of casualties .
Since Thursday , gunfights and arson attacks by gang members have killed at least 18 people .
The attacks started Thursday when gang members set fire to several city buses , burning some passengers alive .
Some 20,000 police are now patrolling streets and mass transit routes throughout the city .
Some two million people are expected to gather on Brazil 's famous Copacabana and Ipanema beaches for New Year 's celebrations .
Astronauts at the International Space Station have put in place a new Canadian robotic device designed to assist future astronauts with delicate maintenance tasks at the orbiting facility .
The astronauts attached the robot , called Dextre , to the U.S. laboratory Destiny , at the space station Tuesday .
Two crew members of the U.S. shuttle Endeavour assembled Dextre during a seven-hour spacewalk earlier this week .
The astronauts are to begin the mission 's fourth spacewalk Thursday to test a new procedure for repairing damaged heat-shielding tiles .
On an earlier spacewalk , astronauts attached a storage compartment for a Japanese laboratory scheduled to be delivered by another space shuttle in May .
Astronauts have set up scientific experiments for various nations , though difficulties with one project saw it returned to the loading bay instead of being installed on the outside of the station .
The U.S. Justice Department says a Taiwanese-American man has pleaded guilty to spying for the Chinese government .
The department says Tai Shen Kuo , 58 , admitted in a Virginia court near Washington to a charge of conspiracy to deliver national defense information .
The New Orleans businessman , who faces up to life in prison , will be sentenced on August 8 .
According to court documents , the alleged offenses took place from March 2007 to February 2008 .
Kuo is accused of obtaining secret information from Gregg Bergersen , who was a U.S. Defense Department analyst , and then passing it on to a Chinese official .
He allegedly provided Bergersen with gifts , cash and trips .
The Justice Department says the Chinese official paid Kuo approximately $ 50,000 .
Bergersen had previously pleaded guilty in the case and faces up to 10 years in jail .
U.S. President Barack Obama is hailing progress made on financial reform and unemployment benefits , but he says more needs to be done to boost the country 's economy .
Mr. Obama spoke Friday after signing into law this week the most sweeping set of financial regulatory reforms since the Great Depression of the 1930s .
He said the new law will protect Americans from the reckless behavior that sparked the financial crisis .
He also praised Congress for voting this week to restore unemployment insurance to about 2.5 million Americans .
The president said his ultimate goal is to make sure that all Americans looking for work can get jobs .
He also called on lawmakers to pass legislation designed to helpe small businesses , adding that the success of those businesses is crucial to the health of the U.S. economy .
A bill emerging in the U.S. Senate would create a $ 30 billion government lending fund for small businesses .
Israeli police are investigating the desecration of the graves of slain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and his wife , Leah .
Police said Monday the words " murderous dog " were written with black paint on the tomb of Mr. Rabin , who was assassinated in 1995 by a Jewish extremist for his land-for-peace deals with the Palestinians .
Last week , the grave of Theodore Herzl , the founder of the Zionist movement , was defaced with the words " Neo Nazi Hail Beilin . "
Israel 's founding father David Ben Gurion 's grave was also desecrated .
Police say they suspect right-wing extremists opposed to Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and four West Bank settlements were responsible for the graveyard vandalism .
Israel has suspended its offensive into the Gaza Strip following a lull in rocket attacks by Palestinian militants .
Israeli security officials said Sunday the operation , which included a series of airstrikes on weapons factories , storage facilities and launching areas , achieved its goal of weakening militants ' ability to attack Israel from Gaza .
But the officials say the military is ready to restart the operation if the rocket fire resumes .
The fighting erupted after an explosion at a Gaza rally by the Islamic group Hamas killed 21 people on September 23rd .
Hamas blames Israel for the blast , even though Palestinian officials say the explosion was caused by the mishandling of explosives .
Hamas fired dozens of rockets into southern Israeli towns after the blast .
Venezuela is offering some poor families in the eastern U.S. city of Philadelphia discounted heating oil , following up on its offer to people in several other communities .
U.S. Congresswoman , Chaka Fattah who brokered the deal said Friday it fills a real need among poor families who have used up their state and federal aid .
The agreement with U.S.-based Citgo , which is owned by Venezuela 's national oil company , allows more than 7,000 Philadelphia families to buy their heating oil at a 40 percent discount .
Venezuela previously made such deals with communities in the U.S. states of New York , Rhode Island , Vermont , Massachusetts and Maine .
Critics say it is a political ploy by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez to make President Bush look bad .
But supporters say it is purely a humanitarian gesture .
U.S. heating oil prices have increased substantially this year because of rising oil prices worldwide .
The U.S. Senate has approved more than $ 81 billion to sustain combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
This would push the total cost of combat and reconstruction beyond $ 300 billion .
The U.S. House of Representatives passed a similar bill last month .
The two bills differ mainly on two issues - immigration reforms and plans of construction of a new embassy in Baghdad .
The Senate has included $ 592 million for the embassy , but the House has not .
Once the differences between the two versions are worked out , it will go to President Bush for his signature .
Both versions of the measure would give President Bush much of the money he requested .
Thousands of women marched in the Democratic Republic of Congo Sunday to demand an end to mass rapes and sexual violence .
Congo 's first lady Lembe Kabila led the march through the eastern town of Bukavu .
The United Nations has paid increased attention to the problem of sexual violence in Congo since rebels raped at least 300 people , including some men , during an attack on an eastern village in August .
A later U.N. report acknowledged that U.N. peacekeepers in the area did nothing to stop the rapes .
The U.N. says about 15,000 rapes are reported in Congo each year .
Both rebel groups and government forces are accused of committing the rapes , as well as killings and other crimes .
Moroccan authorities say they have dismantled two terrorist cells with al-Qaida links and detained the groups ' members .
The Interior Ministry says one cell , called Sahrawi Jihad Front , had four members .
In a Friday statement , the ministry said the cell was being led by a so-called " extremist " who formerly lived in Italy .
The ministry says a second , five-member cell had been recruiting volunteers for " jihad " in Iraq .
It says the group had been coordinating efforts with al-Qaida networks .
The government also says one of the detainees is a Yemeni national who is wanted in his country for al-Qaida links .
A ministry statement does not say when the arrests took place .
Morocco has announced a series of arrests of suspected militants since a 2003 bombing in Casablanca killed 45 people .
In April , the country announced the arrests of 24 people with suspected al-Qaida links .
Zimbabwe 's Information Minister , Tichaona Jokonya , has been found dead in a hotel room in the capital , Harare .
There was no information on the cause of death .
Local media reported the 68-year-old Jokonya had been ill earlier this year .
Jokonya was appointed to the post last year after President Robert Mugabe fired the previous information minister , Jonathan Moyo .
In a recent press conference , Jokonya threatened Zimbabwe 's journalists , telling them traitors would die .
Jokonya was a career diplomat , and served as Zimbabwe 's ambassador to the United Nations for ten years .
Officials in Benin say tests have confirmed the presence of the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus on two poultry farms .
Agriculture Minister Roger Dovonou says tests from a laboratory in Italy confirmed the virus has struck one farm in the city of Cotonou and another in the town of Adjarra , outside the capital Porto Novo .
Benin reported its first suspected cases of bird flu on December 7th .
Workers slaughtered several hundred chickens at the two farms as a precautionary measure , and also disinfected the sites .
H5N1 mainly affects birds but is capable of infecting humans .
The virus has killed more than 200 people around the world , mostly in Asia , since 2003 .
Several west African countries have reported cases of the virus .
Benin 's neighbor Nigeria reported the area 's first human fatality from H5N1 early this year .
Haitian soldiers who helped the United States fight for independence from Britain in the Revolutionary War may soon get a monument in their honor in the southeastern U.S. state of Georgia .
Officials in the city of Savannah are considering a proposal by the non-profit Haitian American Historical Society to erect a bronze monument in the city .
The Society says the monument will represent the Chasseurs-Volontaires de Saint-Domingue , a regiment of soldiers who were free men of color from Haiti .
The group says the men were part of the American army unit that fought to drive the British from the coastal city in 1779 .
Interim Haitian Prime Minister Gerard Latortue is scheduled to meet with potential monument donors in Savannah Saturday when he returns from Rome , where he attended Pope John Paul the Second 's funeral .
Iraqi police say a suicide car bomber has killed at least 26 people and wounded about 70 others in the southern town of Hillah .
Authorities say the blast Tuesday went off near a hospital in a commercial district .
Many of the dead are said to be women and children .
Hillah is 100 kilometers south of Baghdad .
In other news , the U.S. military said coalition forces detained 20 suspected terrorists Tuesday in raids targeting al-Qaida in Iraq operations north of Baghdad .
The military said one of those detained is a foreign terrorist suspected of involvement in a suicide truck bomb attack in May in the town of Samarra .
The statement did not say where the suspect is from .
Governments across the world are evacuating more of their citizens trapped by Israel 's bombardment of Lebanon .
Many of the evacuees are passing through Cyprus , which has appealed for help in dealing with the thousands of people arriving on the island daily .
Officials say more than 25,000 people have so far come to Cyprus .
The United States , France , Britain , Canada , Germany , Australia and India are among the countries organizing evacuations .
Meanwhile , the Geneva-based International Organization for Migration says tens of thousands of migrants from developing countries are stranded in Lebanon .
It says Sri Lanka , the Philippines and Ethiopia are asking for help to get their nationals to Syria and Jordan .
And thousands more Lebanese are heading north from southern Lebanon as Israel presses on with its military action .
Israeli medical officials say a Lebanese woman wounded in Saturday 's fighting is receiving treatment in a northern Israeli hospital .
The United States has expressed concern over an escalation in violence in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region , after rebels captured a southern village .
A State Department spokesman said Wednesday both rebels and the government-backed militia have contributed to the increase in violence in Darfur .
He said African Union cease-fire monitors are critical to bringing the situation under control .
Monday , the rebel Sudan Liberation Movement violated a cease-fire and launched a surprise attack on the town of Sheiria .
The Sudanese government has threatened to retake the town .
Rebels have also recently accused the government-backed militia of incursions into rebel-held territory .
The violence comes during a sixth round of African Union-sponsored peace talks between Darfur rebel groups and the Sudanese government .
AU officials said the renewed fighting could mar the talks and urged both sides to exercise restraint .
A new report says U.S. home prices continued to fall in August , declining five percent over the past year .
Tuesday 's report from Standard & Poors and Case-Shiller tracks home prices in cities across the United States .
The housing sector 's problems have been made worse by defaults among subprime borrowers .
That has prompted investors to avoid lending even to well-qualified borrowers .
Economists tell journalists that they are worried falling home prices will make homeowners curb spending .
Consumer demand drives about two-thirds of U.S. economic activity , so declining consumer spending raises the risk of recession .
The risk of a shrinking economy is one of many things that top officials from the U.S. central bank , known as the Federal Reserve , are considering as they decide whether to cut interest rates to boost the economy .
They are scheduled to announce a decision on Wednesday .
A maritime official says Somali pirates have hijacked a Yemeni cargo ship in the Gulf of Aden .
Andrew Mwangura , of the East African Seafarers Assistance Program , identified the vessel Tuesday as the MV Amani .
It was not immediately clear when the ship was hijacked .
Somali pirates have hijacked nearly 40 ships this year .
In Malaysia Monday , an international association of tanker owners called for a military blockade along the coast of Somalia .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said the alliance is not considering such a move .
NATO is among the world powers that have sent ships to patrol the waters off Somalia .
Somali pirates are wreaking havoc in shipping lanes near the country .
The Somali government , which is threatened by an Islamist insurgency , lacks the power to stop the attacks .
Bosnian authorities say forensic experts have exhumed more than 120 bodies from a mass grave near the town of Zvornik .
Officials said Friday that 16 complete and 113 incomplete skeletons were found in a village in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The remains are believed to be those of people killed in the Srebrenica massacre .
Serb forces killed an estimated 8,000 Muslim men and boys after capturing Srebrenica , an enclave the United Nations had declared a Muslim safe area .
The burial site is one of several so-called secondary graves were Bosnian Serbs reburied victims in order to cover up the mass killing .
The massacre is considered an act of genocide and the worst atrocity in Europe since World War II .
About 3,000 remains have been identified and reburied .
The partial remains of 5,000 more victims are still waiting to be identified .
Officials in Somalia say at least 16 people have been killed in factional fighting that began Monday and continued into Tuesday .
Witnesses say the fighting took place in and around the town of Belet Weyn , some 300 kilometers north of the capital .
Officials say the clash was the result of an on-going dispute between rival factions over the use of pasture land .
Somalia has been without a central government since 1991 when clan-based warlords over-threw dictator Said Barre .
Since then , in-fighting between the clans has plunged the nation into anarchy .
A new government was formed last year in Kenya but it is opposed by Islamic extremists and other factions .
The government has not relocated to Mogadishu because of lack of security .
A Serpent in the course of its wanderings came into an armourer 's shop .
As he glided over the floor he felt his skin pricked by a file lying there .
In a rage he turned round upon it and tried to dart his fangs into it ; but he could do no harm to heavy iron and had soon to give over his wrath .
It is useless attacking the insensible .
North Korea has marked the 60th anniversary of the founding of its ruling party with a mass gathering in the capital .
Supreme leader Kim Jong-il presided over the festivities Sunday night at Pyongyang 's May Day Stadium .
The ruling Workers ' Party was founded in 1945 by Kim Jong-il 's father the late President Kim il-Sung , shortly after the Korean Peninsula was divided at the end of World War II .
There was no mention of the country 's nuclear ambitions in speeches during Monday 's celebrations .
North Korea agreed last month during six-nation talks in Beijing to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for economic aid , energy assistance and security assurances .
The fifth round of six-nation talks is scheduled for early next month in Beijing .
The Mexican music group Camila and Dominican singer Juan Luis Guerra were the big winners at the 11th Latin Grammyawards , picking up three awards each at the event Thursday in Las Vegas .
Trio Camila , comprised of Mario Domm , Pablo Hurtado and Samuel " Samo " Parra won for recording of the year and song of the year for " Mientes , " and also picked up best group pop album for " Dejarte de Amar . "
Singer-songwriter Guerra won Grammys for best album of the year , best contemporary tropical album for A Son de Guerraas well as best tropical song for " Bachata en Fukuoko . "
He has now won 15 Latin Grammys in his career .
The awards were broadcast live in the United States and Latin America on the Univision Spanish-language television network .
The Latin Grammys are awarded each year by the Latin Recording Academy to recognize recordings released in Spanish or Portuguese .
An American company helping to repatriate the bodies of foreign tsunami victims in Thailand says efforts are being hampered by a lack of coordination .
Kenyon International Emergency Services of Houston , Texas is calling on the governments involved to set up a single coordinated DNA lab to speed up the identification process .
Kenyon president Robert Jensen said Sunday that more than 20 countries are taking part in the identification process , with each using its own DNA methods to process bodies .
He added that DNA laboratories currently being used in Phuket are unable to deal with the overwhelming number of samples being taken .
Hundreds of bodies have been sent back to their home countries since the December 26 disaster , but thousands more remain unidentified .
Tornadoes ripped through the southern U.S. Saturday , killing at least 10 people , including three children .
Dozens of other people were injured .
A tornado more than a kilometer wide tore through central Mississippi , killing residents , destroying homes , blocking highways and knocking out power .
Yazoo City was hit the hardest .
Mississippi 's governor , Haley Barbour , declared a state of emergency in the affected counties .
He directed National Guard troops to help local officials responding to the storms .
Tornadoes also struck other southern states .
Iraqi police say eight people were killed and 10 others wounded Thursday in a bomb attack on a Sunni political party 's office in Baquba , north of Baghdad .
Police say the bomb exploded inside the headquarters of the Reform and Development Party in Diyala province around the time that some party members were holding a meeting .
In western Iraq , police say a suicide bomber blew up his vehicle , killing at least five people and wounding 15 others .
Authorities say the attack happened close to a police station in al-Qaim near the Iraq-Syria border .
A police official said multiple houses collapsed after the bomb exploded , and several civilians are trapped under the rubble .
Violence in Iraq has dropped sharply during the past year , but attacks increased in the weeks leading up to and following the June 30 withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from Iraqi cities .
Zambian officials have discovered more than 40 dead wild birds in the southern city of Livingstone , and have asked residents who ate any meat from the birds to report for medical examinations .
The chief veterinary officer in the southern tourist town , Jack Shoko , said he sent samples of the dead birds to the capital of Lusaka to be tested for bird flu .
Zambia has not yet reported any cases of bird flu in animals or humans .
In March , the government banned poultry imports .
The World Health Organization says the bird flu virus can not be contracted by eating cooked poultry .
But it warns people should not eat improperly cooked meat in areas where there are outbreaks of the virus .
Two African countries , Egypt and Djibouti , have confirmed cases of bird flu in humans this year .
Hundreds of supporters of former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif are protesting a court ruling that bans him from running for parliament in this week 's by-election .
The protesters , who burned effigies , gathered outside parliament in Islamabad Tuesday .
They blame President Pervez Musharraf for the court 's decision .
Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani says the government will challenge the court 's decision .
The Lahore High Court ruled Monday that Mr. Sharif is not qualified to run in Thursday 's election because of convictions related to his overthrow in a 1999 military coup .
The decision prevents him from running for prime minister .
In 1999 , Mr. Sharif allegedly ordered the hijacking of a commercial plane carrying Mr. Musharraf , who was then the army chief .
The former prime minister faced charges related to the incident .
He has denied the allegations .
Typhoon Longwang is swirling toward mainland China after pounding Taiwan Sunday , leaving one person dead , one missing , and 46 injured while disrupting flights and downing power lines .
Officials say a 60-year-old man died after he was hit by flying debris .
A woman is missing and feared dead after being washed away by flash floods in the central town of Hoping .
Authorities say most of the injuries were caused by flying debris .
Taiwan 's Central Weather Bureau said the typhoon made landfall early Sunday and left in the afternoon .
The foreign ministry says the storm interrupted Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian 's flight home from a two-week trip abroad .
Officials said he landed on the Indonesian island of Bali Sunday rather than fly to Taiwan .
The ministry says the president will stay in Bali until the weather clears in Taiwan .
China has acknowledged for the first time that a clash between demonstrators and police in a southern village this week turned deadly .
The official Xinhua news agency Saturday said demonstrators at a power plant in the Guangdong provincial village of Dongzhou attacked police and threw explosives , forcing officers to open fire .
Xinhua said at least three villagers were killed and several others were injured .
Witnesses to the Tuesday incident put the death toll as high as 20 .
They say at least 1,000 people had gathered at the power plant to protest inadequate compensation for land that the government seized for the plant 's construction .
Authorities have sealed the village off , with police patrolling the streets and blocking roads leading in .
If the casualty figure of 20 is confirmed , the incident would be the largest known use of force by Chinese security personnel since the killing of hundreds around Tiananmen Square in 1989 .
French officials say rioters burned cars and shot at police while protesting the police shooting of a man accused of robbing a casino .
The riot erupted late Friday night in the southeastern city of Grenoble .
Officials said the rioters also torched shops and attacked a streetcar ( tramway ) line .
Police said some rioters also shot at officers and that they returned fire .
The French newspaper Le Monde says the youths started their rampage after hearing a Muslim imam give a ceremony for an alleged robber , who died Thursday night after being chased by police and exchanging gunfire .
The West Indies ' cricket team has scored 240-8 on the first day of its second test match against South Africa at Newlands in Cape Town , South Africa .
Shivnarine Chanderpaul of the West Indies led the visitors with 64 runs while Marlon Samuels added another 51 for the Caribbean squad .
Chanderpaul was at the crease for 297 minutes and faced 214 deliveries .
South African bowlers Makhaya Ntini and Dale Steyn led the home team with Steyn taking four wickets while allowing 60 runs while Ntini finished at 2-63 .
The West Indies won the first test of the three-match series by 128 runs in Port Elizabeth .
The third test starts January 10th in Durban .
The two sides will also play five one-day international matches .
A prominent Somali peace activist has been killed by unknown gunmen at his home in the capital , Mogadishu .
The victim , Abdulkadir Yahya Ali , was a co-founder of a think tank , the Center for Research and Dialogue , considered one of the most effective NGOs in Somalia .
The co-director of the center , Jabril Ibrahim Abdulle , told Voice of America reporter William Eagle that the assailants raided Mr. Abdulkadir 's home , tied up the security guards , and cut telephone lines .
He says Mr. Abdulkadir was bound and shot in front of his wife .
Kidnappings and killings are common in Somalia , where a new government is trying to establish security after 14 years without a central administration .
People across southern Asia have paused to remember the powerful Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami that occurred one month ago Wednesday .
Thousands of Sri Lankans observed a minute of silence , and the Tamil Tiger rebels declared a day of mourning .
In Indonesia 's hard-hit Banda Aceh province , teachers and students opened their first day of classes since the tragedy with prayers for missing friends .
A senior USAID official tells VOA that aid workers continue to focus on survivors ' emergency needs , but says there are signs that relief efforts have begun moving into a rehabilitation phase .
The Oxfam international charity says the response to the disaster has been so overwhelming that some aid groups are conducting relief work without the necessary experience or skills .
Ukraine 's opposition has ended a blockade of government buildings , hours after parliament adopted a series of electoral reforms and outgoing President Leonid Kuchma signed them into law .
The move allows many government employees to return to work for the first time in weeks .
Opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko Wednesday thanked his supporters for their continuous protests following last month 's fraudulent runoff vote .
He told the cheering crowd their 17 days of peaceful protests helped bring about the new laws .
The measures , proposed by the opposition , are aimed at preventing fraud in the December 26 repeat of the flawed election .
Also included are constitutional changes that transfer some presidential powers to parliament .
But presidential rival , pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , called the parliamentary vote illegal .
He said the new laws will do nothing to stop election fraud .
Afghan officials say insurgents in western Afghanistan have attacked a police patrol , sparking a clash that left four policemen and four insurgents dead .
Officials say at least four police were wounded in Wednesday 's clash in western Farah province .
The attack took place close to where gunmen killed a United Nations aid worker in the provincial capital , Farah city .
Police say militants fired on the car of the Afghan employee of U.N. Habitat , the organization 's human settlements program .
In the southern city of Kandahar , Afghan police say a suspected suicide bomber is the sole victim of an attack on a mosque .
Police say the bomber detonated explosives inside an empty mud-brick mosque Wednesday .
The blast destroyed several rooms and walls in the building , but police say there were no other casualties .
An international media rights group says Burma 's military government has been harassing journalists since anti-government demonstrations in September .
Reporters Without Borders said Wednesday police continue to search for journalists and activists who photographed and filmed the crackdown on the demonstrations led by Buddhist monks .
It says at least nine journalists have fled to Thailand , and at least three others have been arrested and are still being held .
The group said that while privately-owned media in Burma has resumed publishing , the country 's Censorship Board has stepped up its controls .
It also says the government is strictly controlling the sales of foreign publications and that surveillance at Internet cafes has increased .
The Burmese government detained thousands of protesters during the September pro-democracy demonstrations .
Burma says 15 people died in the protests but the United Nations puts the figure at 31 .
The Dutch military chief says his forces in Afghanistan have killed 18 suspected militants during a special operation in the southern province of Uruzgan .
He said there were no Dutch casualties in the fighting which occurred after militants set up positions in the hills overlooking a Dutch camp .
Separately , the U.S. military said a coalition soldier was killed following a rocket and mortar attack late Thursday by militants on a coalition compound in southeastern Afghanistan .
The soldier , whose nationality was not released , died before he could be medically evacuated from the base in Paktika province .
Meanwhile , NATO chiefs who are visiting Afghanistan toured volatile areas of southern Afghanistan Friday and vowed they are ready to take on resurgent Taleban .
NATO peacekeeping troops will take over security command from the U.S.-led coalition in the southern provinces at the end of July .
The United States has condemned the jailing of a former member of Syria 's parliament and has demanded his immediate release .
Tom Casey , a U.S. State Department spokesman , expressed concern Tuesday about Riad Seif , who was arrested Monday as part of a crackdown against opposition activists .
In August , the State Department urged Syria to allow Seif to travel outside the country to receive urgent medical treatment .
A spokesman said Syria denies freedom of movement to hundreds of its citizens who peacefully question the political system under which they live .
President Bush issued a statement in December calling on Syria to release hundreds of opposition activists jailed for their political beliefs .
Since December , at least 10 opposition activists have been detained by Syrian authorities .
Triple Olympic champion Janica Kostelic of Croatia has won her first ever World Cup downhill title in Bad Kleinkirchheim , Austria .
Kostelic finished the 2,633-meter Franz Klammer course in 1:37.96 minutes , 0.17 seconds ahead of Sweden 's Nike Bent .
Michaela Dorfmeister of Austria was third ( 1:38.53 ) .
Before Saturday , Kostelic had never done better in World Cup downhills than two second-place finishes last year .
The victory strengthened the 24-year-old Croatian 's hold on the World Cup overall lead .
Kostelic has 882 points after 17 events , 197 points ahead of Sweden 's Anja Paerson .
Dorfmeister is third with 650 points .
A top U.S. State Department official is traveling to Ecuador , Colombia and Peru to discuss security cooperation , governance and human rights .
The State Department says Arturo Valenzuela , the U.S. assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs , departs Sunday on the week-long trip .
It says Valenzuela will meet with students at a university in Ecuador , the University Tecnica Particular de Loja , and deliver a speech on U.S. foreign policy at the Latin American Faculty for Social Sciences .
While in Colombia , he is to give a speech in Bogota at the Universidad de los Andes , and participate in the World Economic Forum in Cartagena .
In Peru , the last stop of the trip , he is to meet with government officials and political and economic analysts , and visit alternative development projects .
Iraqi authorities say insurgents have shot dead at least three policemen , including the chief of a central Baghdad police station .
Police say the gunmen fired on a vehicle in which police officers were traveling to work Thursday morning .
The attack came a day after a suicide truck bombing claimed by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror group killed three people near the Agriculture Ministry and a Baghdad hotel used by Westerners .
Also Wednesday , Iraqi officials said they discovered the bodies of 41 people killed execution-style in two separate locations , in Qaim , near the Syrian border , and near Latifiya , south of Baghdad .
In other incidents in Baghdad , Iraq 's planning minister Mahdi al-Hafidh escaped an assassination attempt when gunmen fired on his car , killing two of his bodyguards .
And , an American soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast .
Iraqi political leaders are meeting Tuesday for a second round of talks aimed at resolving differences over key points in the Iraqi constitution .
A draft of the constitution is due Monday , but issues such as federalism , women 's rights , the role of Islam and the country 's official language still need to be agreed upon , raising concerns that the deadline might not be met .
Speaking at the Pentagon , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld urged the Iraqis to meet that deadline , saying the constitution could turn out to be a powerful weapon against insurgents .
Meanwhile , a wave of shooting attacks across Baghdad killed 10 police officers , and a suicide car bomber killed at least three civilians and an American soldier .
Also , the U.S. military announced Tuesday that a Marine was shot and killed Monday in Ramadi .
North Korea 's defense minister is promising retaliation against tough new U.N. sanctions put in place following its missile and nuclear tests .
North Korean state media reported Sunday that Kim Yong-Chun said Pyongyang would deal " unimaginably deadly blows " at the United States and South Korea if they attack the communist nation .
Kim was speaking at a public meeting held on the eve of the anniversary of the armistice that ended the Korean War on July 27 , 1953 .
In a separate announcement , North Korea repeated its routine denunciations of an upcoming U.S. and South Korean military exercise , saying the maneuvers " lay bare the black-hearted aim " lurking behind the " talk of dialogue . "
Washington and Seoul say they are not planning to invade North Korea .
North Korea regularly issues aggressive statements and rhetoric against its neighbors and the U.S.
At least five people have died in grass fires tearing across the southern U.S. states of Oklahoma and Texas .
Drought , high winds , and low humidity have helped spread the flames .
Officials in Texas say the fires have destroyed more than 100 buildings in their state , some three-quarters of them private homes .
At least two of the deaths were women who could not escape as flames overcame their houses .
Authorities said Wednesday that decreased winds and slightly cooler temperatures helped firefighters check the spread of the flames .
But weather forecasts for the next few days show more low humidity and little chance of rain .
Texas governor Rick Perry has declared the fires a disaster and dispatched National Guard troops to help battle the blazes .
World oil prices rebounded in Wednesday 's trading .
The price of a barrel of crude oil for future delivery gained nearly $ 4 to go as high as $ 95 a barrel in New York .
Oil prices had fallen earlier in the week as investors worried that problems in the U.S. financial sector could hurt the economy and slow demand for energy .
Oil buyers were apparently reassured when Washington helped insurance giant AIG and took other actions to calm the markets .
Oil prices have fallen more than one-third since hitting an all-time high price above $ 147 a barrel in July .
Taiwan authorities say they have found a cancer causing chemical in fresh fish from farms on the island , following recent scares in Hong Kong about tainted fish .
Health officials in Taiwan Thursday said tests at Taipei markets of grouper fish from farms in the south of the island turned up traces of the chemical , called malachite green .
The officials did not identify the farms , saying the investigation was continuing .
Malachite green is used to treat certain kinds of infections in fish .
The development comes after Hong Kong health officials found the chemical in eels and other fish shipped from the mainland .
Hong Kong said traces of the chemical had also turned up in some fish from Taiwan .
A South African editor says the press , which predicted a low turnout and great violence in Iraq on election day , has been proved wrong .
But the foreign editor of Business Day newspaper in Johannesburg , Jonathan Katzenellenbogen , told English to Africa reporter William Eagle that observers are looking to see how Iraq 's Sunni -- many of whom boycotted the polls -- can be included in the writing of the country 's constitution .
As for Iraq 's insurgency , Mr. Katzenellenbogen notes that groups who turned to violence during his own country 's first all-race elections in 1994 were left out of the political process , and have for the most part withered away .
He also says South Africans are also looking to see if the Iraqi elections will bring about the announcement of an American exit strategy .
Venezuela 's Supreme Court has ruled that an opposition-aligned television station can keep operating through cable systems for now .
The court Wednesday suspended an order by the telecommunications commission that would have forced RCTV International to stop transmitting its programs if it did not register with the government , and follow regulations that would require it to interrupt regular programming for speeches by President Hugo Chavez .
RCTV began showing its programs via cable and satellite last month .
It was forced to stop regular over-the - air broadcasting by President Chavez in May .
Mr. Chavez refused to renew RCTV 's license to broadcast on a public frequency for allegedly backing a failed coup against him in 2002 .
RCTV denies the accusations .
Other national private networks also opposed Mr. Chavez , but their criticism of the government is now softer and they have kept their licenses .
The United States and China have reportedly reached a tentative agreement on imported Chinese textiles .
News reports in the Washington Post and by Bloomberg Business News cite unnamed sources who say negotiators have agreed to allow U.S. imports of Chinese textile and apparel products to increase up to 10 percent in 2006 and 16 percent in 2007 .
While the accord is not yet complete , the sources say the agreement could be signed as soon as next week .
Washington and Beijing have been trying for a comprehensive agreement on Chinese exports that compete with U.S. made clothing and textiles .
The issue flared because of a surge in Chinese exports to the United States after textile quotas were lifted at the start of the year .
Hundreds of mourners have gathered in Vienna to say good-bye to Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal , who died Tuesday at the age of 96 .
Diplomats and political leaders , including Austrian Chancellor Wolfgang Scheussel , packed into a hall at the city 's Central Cemetery for the ceremony .
Mr. Wiesenthal will be buried Friday in Israel .
Tributes to the Holocaust survivor have poured in from leaders around the world .
President Bush called him a tireless advocate for justice .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Mr. Wiesenthal proved there can be no immunity from prosecution for genocide .
Mr. Wiesenthal was born in present-day Ukraine and was an architect before he was sent to a Nazi concentration camp .
After U.S. forces freed him in 1945 , he spent the rest of his life pursuing escaped Nazi war criminals , including the mastermind of the Holocaust , Adolf Eichmann .
Hilary Duff says she feels pressure to be thin .
Speaking to People Magazine , the 19-year-old actress-singer says the media can be " judgmental and mean " in their incessant attention to her weight .
The starlet says while she has never had a weight problem , she realizes critics will never be happy with her appearance .
Hilary Duff , who has sold more than 13 albums worldwide , releases her latest effort Dignity on April 3 in the U.S. While several songs deal with her ex-boyfriend Joel Madden of the rock band Good Charlotte , Hilary denies criticizing his present girlfriend Nicole Richie on the song " Gypsy Woman . "
A report in The New York Times Sunday says the United States is working on a plan that expands government access to international banking records in an effort to deter terrorist transactions .
The newspaper reports a U.S. Treasury Department working group is examining ways the government can gain access to logs of international wire transfers into and out of U.S. banks .
The Times quotes unnamed government officials who say they are mindful of concerns about privacy and potential misuse of the system .
It says the plan is still in its preliminary stages .
A recent U.S. law authorizes the Treasury Department to develop regulations requiring U.S. banks to turn over suspected " cross-border " electronic transactions .
U.S. military authorities have released 260 people from two detention facilities in Iraq after a security review board determined the detainees no longer pose a threat .
A military spokesman Saturday said the release brings to 9,000 the number of detainees in Iraq who were freed in 2004 .
He said about 7,000 prisoners are still being held at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison and Camp Bucca in southern Iraq .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says a Marine was killed in Iraq 's western province of al-Anbar .
The latest death marked an end to the U.S. military 's deadliest six-month period since the April 2003 invasion - with more than 500 U.S. soldiers killed in the last six months of 2004 .
Also Saturday , a Lebanese man was killed and another wounded by sniper fire in the U.S. controlled Green Zone .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and French President Jacques Chirac have met in Berlin to discuss the crisis surrounding the European Union 's constitution .
Both leaders have called for the ratification process to continue , despite votes in France and the Netherlands earlier this week rejecting the constitution .
The two met Saturday as EU leaders prepare to meet in Brussels on June 16 and 17 .
Mr. Chirac and Mr. Schroeder have been close allies in the European Union , but both have been weakened in recent weeks .
Sunday 's referendum defeat prompted Mr. Chirac to reshuffle his government .
Germany 's upper house of parliament ratified the EU constitution last week , but Mr. Schroeder 's ruling party suffered a critical state election loss , prompting him to call national elections for this fall , one year early .
U.S. Democratic Party officials say President-elect Barack Obama has chosen a former congressman and Clinton White House chief of staff to lead the Central Intelligence Agency .
Officials say Leon Panetta will be nominated as director of the CIA in the new Obama administration .
Mr. Obama takes office in two weeks , but the nomination must be confirmed by the U.S. Senate .
Panetta served as White House chief of staff for former President Bill Clinton .
The former congressman from California was also a member of the Iraq Study Group , a bipartisan commission charged with assessing the situation in Iraq and advising how the United States should proceed there .
Democratic Party officials say Mr. Obama is also expected to name retired U.S. Admiral Dennis Blair as his choice for director of national intelligence .
Admiral Blair is the former commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific .
Angola 's high growth rate in recent years was driven by high international prices for its oil .
Angola became a member of OPEC in late 2006 and in late 2007 was assigned a production quota of 1.9 million barrels a day ( bbl/day ) , somewhat less than the 2-2.5 million bbl/day Angola 's government had wanted .
Oil production and its supporting activities contribute about 85 % of GDP .
Diamond exports contribute an additional 5 % .
Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for most of the people , but half of the country 's food is still imported .
Increased oil production supported growth averaging more than 15 % per year from 2004 to 2008 .
A postwar reconstruction boom and resettlement of displaced persons has led to high rates of growth in construction and agriculture as well .
Much of the country 's infrastructure is still damaged or undeveloped from the 27-year-long civil war .
Land mines left from the war still mar the countryside , even though peace was established after the death of rebel leader Jonas SAVIMBI in February 2002 .
Since 2005 , the government has used billions of dollars in credit lines from China , Brazil , Portugal , Germany , Spain , and the EU to rebuild Angola 's public infrastructure .
The global recession temporarily stalled economic growth .
Lower prices for oil and diamonds during the global recession led to a contraction in GDP in 2009 , and many construction projects stopped because Luanda accrued $ 9 billion in arrears to foreign construction companies when government revenue fell in 2008 and 2009 .
Angola abandoned its currency peg in 2009 , and in November 2009 signed onto an IMF Stand-By Arrangement loan of $ 1.4 billion to rebuild international reserves .
Although consumer inflation declined from 325 % in 2000 to under 14 % in 2010 , Luanda has been unable to reduce inflation below 10 % .
The Angolan kwanza depreciated again in mid 2010 , which , along with higher oil prices , should boost economic growth in all sectors .
Corruption , especially in the extractive sectors , also is a major challenge .
Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable natural resources , although surrounding waters contain substantial fish stocks and potential untapped petroleum resources .
Economic activity is limited to providing services for employees of Norway 's radio and meteorological stations on the island .
One of Africa 's most renowed musicians , Ali Farka Toure , has died in his home country of Mali .
Mali 's Culture Ministry announced Tuesday that Toure passed away after a long illness .
He was about 66 years old .
Toure was a singer and accomplished guitar player , and helped create a genre known as Mali Blues , which combined traditional African sounds with black American music .
He cited many Western musicians as a source of inspiration , with special praise for the American blues legend John Lee Hooker .
Toure was best known overseas for his mid-1990s collaboration with American guitarist Ry Cooder .
Their Talking Timbuktu album netted Toure his first Grammy Award He won a second Grammy this year for his In the Heart of the Moon album .
Toure was beloved in Mali , and radio stations suspended their normal programming Tuesday to play his songs .
Chinese officials say they are training more than 40,000 police officers to provide security and prevent terrorism during the 2008 Olympics .
The official news agency Xinhua reports that party officials launched the training program Thursday with a hostage rescue demonstration at Beijing 's People 's Police College .
The report quotes Beijing Olympic Security chief Qiang Wei as saying the city will need a strong force to handle or prevent any unexpected incidents .
A spokesman for the Beijing Public Security Bureau says the officers will receive a three-phased program over the next 18 months or so , including language training and basic skills , including strength training .
United Nations officials in Somalia say a cargo ship held for nearly 100 days at sea by pirates has finally arrived in port .
The MV Semlow and its 10-man crew arrived Monday in the Somali port of El-Maan , one day after the pirates left .
It was towed into port by another cargo ship that had been hijacked several days earlier .
Pirates seized the U.N.-chartered ship on June 27 .
It carried 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany for Somali victims of last year 's tsunami .
The pirates frequently changed their demands and reneged on agreements with the World Food Program to free the ship .
The vessel will spend the next few days at El-Maan being offloaded before heading back to its home port in Mombasa , Kenya .
At least seven people have been killed in separate insurgent bomb attacks across Iraq , Saturday .
Iraqi authorities say five people were killed when a roadside bomb exploded near the headquarters of one of Iraq 's main Sunni Arab political parties in al-Khalis , 60 kilometers north of Baghdad .
At least two policemen were killed in a bomb attack in Baghdad .
The latest violence comes as Sudan announced plans to close its Baghdad embassy in an effort to win the release of five Sudanese hostages , including one of its top diplomats in Iraq .
Al-Qaida in Iraq said the Sudanese , who were kidnapped in Baghdad last week , will be killed Saturday unless Khartoum closes the diplomatic mission .
The International Monetary Fund has sharply lowered its economic forecast and now says the world economy will shrink for the first time in 60 years during 2009 .
As the report was published Thursday , IMF officials urged governments to do more to fight the downturn .
The global lender said the world economy could shrink as much as one percent .
The IMF study says advanced economies will suffer a " deep recession , " with the United States economy declining at a 2.6 percent rate , and Japan falling at a sharp 5.8 percent .
The IMF cut growth projections for emerging and developing countries in half , saying they will expand 2.5 percent or less this year .
The report predicts a modest economic recovery in 2010 for most nations .
This global economic forecast is sharply lower than the IMF 's projections issued in January , which predicted slow growth .
Europe 's top security organization is meeting in the Bulgarian capital Sofia Monday to discuss Ukraine 's turb ulent politics and efforts to combat international terrorism .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell is attending the two-day meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , along with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and senior officials of OSCE 's 55 member states .
Solomon Passy , the foreign minister of Bulgaria , is expected to propose reforms within the organization that would expand its focus from human rights to security and economic issues .
The meeting is taking place under unprecedented security measures .
A new study says China 's economy will surpass the United States by 2035 , and double by mid-century .
The study released Tuesday by a Washington-based research institute predicts that China 's economic growth is driven by domestic demand , and not exports .
For that reason , the report 's author Albert Keidel says strong growth will continue into the 21st century regardless of a downturn in the world market .
China 's economy has grown at an average annual rate of more than 10 percent over the last decade .
The country 's Gross Domestic Product currently ranks fourth behind the United States , Japan and Germany based on 2007 figures .
Keidel is an expert on China 's economy at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace .
He formerly held positions at the U.S. Treasury Department and the World Bank .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is returning to Washington after talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and a visit to the Middle East this week .
Saturday 's meeting at Mr. Blair 's country residence was private .
A spokesman for the British leader said the talks focused on Middle East issues , including Iran 's nuclear program , and the U.S. secretary of state 's efforts to promote peace in the region .
Neither official issued a statement after the talks .
Rice visited Saudi Arabia , Egypt , Israel , the Palestinian territories and Iraq .
During her tour , she called on world powers to take a tougher stance toward Iran .
Iran continues to refuse to meet an August 31 Security Council deadline to stop enriching uranium , which can be used to make nuclear weapons .
Tehran says it needs the fuel to produce electricity .
President Bush has again defended Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld from critics who are calling for his resignation .
Mr. Bush said at the White House Tuesday , that Rumsfeld is doing a " fine " job .
Several retired generals have recently called for Rumsfeld 's resignation , faulting his leadership and accusing him of making a series of major errors in the Iraq war .
On Friday , President Bush said in a statement that Rumsfeld 's energetic and steady leadership is what the country needs at this critical period .
In a radio interview Monday , Rumsfeld dismissed the generals ' criticism .
He also said he was pleased that two retired generals have come to his defense - former Army General Tommy Franks , who executed the 2003 Iraq invasion , and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Richard Myers .
The United States and Mexico have announced a plan to coordinate law enforcement efforts to stop drug trafficking and related violence along the border between the two countries .
U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and his Mexican counterpart Daniel Cabeza de Vaca spoke to reporters about the new plan Thursday in San Antonio , Texas .
They said the plan includes improved communication , including regular meetings , between law enforcement officials in Mexico and the United States .
It also calls for the United States to provide training and technical assistance to Mexico .
The two men also pledged to work together to provide prompt responses to threats from violent criminal organizations against officials , victims and witnesses .
The US-Mexican border region has seen escalating drug-related violence in recent years .
Costa Rica 's constitutional court has blocked a referendum that would have let voters decide if same-sex civil unions should be allowed in the Central American country .
The court said Tuesday a referendum would put a minority at a disadvantage in the predominantly Roman Catholic country .
The court said the rights of minorities should be decided by the Costa Rica 's lawmakers , not by a popular vote .
The referendum was originally scheduled for December 5 .
Last month , Argentina became the first country in Latin America to legalize same-sex marriage .
Mexico 's Supreme Court ruled last week that same-sex weddings are constitutional in the capital , Mexico City .
In Uruguay and Colombia , civil unions are approved nationwide .
Former Argentine President Carlos Menem has been charged with fraud in connection with a contract awarded to a local subsidiary of a French defense company .
Mr. Menem 's government awarded a concession to electronics firm Thales Spectrum in the 1990s to oversee the South American country 's broadcast frequencies .
But the contract was canceled by Mr. Menem 's successor , Nestor Kirchner , after allegations of irregularities surfaced .
A document released Monday by a federal judge accuses Mr. Menem of actions that undermined the interests of the state .
Prosecutors also are investigating whether officials in Mr. Menem 's government received bribes from Thales Spectrum .
Menem 's lawyer denounced the charges as politically motivated .
The 78-year-old former president , now a senator , is already on trial for allegedly being involved in the illegal sale of weapons to Ecuador and Croatia between 1991 and 1995 .
He faces up to 12 years in prison if convicted .
Nobel laureate and former U.S. Vice President Al Gore has endorsed fellow Democrat , Senator Barack Obama , for president .
Gore told supporters Monday at a rally in Detroit , Michigan , that Obama is the candidate to lead the country toward a better future .
Gore said that over the next four years , the United States will face many challenges such as bringing American troops home from Iraq , fixing the economy and solving the climate crisis .
He said Obama is the candidate best able to solve these problems and bring change to America .
Gore won the Nobel Peace prize last year for his campaign against global warming .
World oil prices have fallen about eight percent from last week 's $ 70 high .
The markets are reacting to Friday 's announcement that industrialized nations were releasing emergency reserves to make up for interruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina .
In London Monday , the price of a barrel of crude oil for October delivery dropped to $ 64.70 , falling nearly $ 1.50 from Friday 's close .
New York markets are closed for the Labor Day holiday .
Analysts say the release of two million barrels of oil per day from International Energy Agency strategic stockpiles will ease the oil crisis in the United States caused by Katrina .
The devastating hurricane shut down refineries , offshore production , oil imports and shipping throughout the entire U.S. Gulf Coast region .
The U.S. military has launched a new operation in western Iraq aimed at rooting-out foreign fighters and insurgents in a bid to boost security ahead of the October 15 referendum on the country 's new constitution .
The U.S. military says about 1,000 marines , soldiers and sailors launched the offensive early Saturday in the town of Sadah , near Qaim , about 12 kilometers from the Syrian border .
Meanwhile , in the northern city of Kirkuk , police say a roadside bomb exploded near one of their patrols , killing at least three officers .
Also Saturday , the U.S. military reports that two American soldiers were killed in separate incidents in Baghdad and Bayji .
Also a Danish soldier was killed and two were wounded in the southern city of Basra , where about 500 Danish soldiers are based .
NATO ministers are meeting in Brussels Thursday to discuss a wide range of issues - from expanding the alliance 's role in Afghanistan and Iraq to the situation in Ukraine .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell reached out to European nations ahead of the meeting .
He acknowledged that tensions over the Iraq war had affected relations with Europe , but said the United States is making new efforts to mend ties .
President Bush is expected in Brussels in February .
High on Thursday 's NATO agenda will be expansion of the alliance 's peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan and a training mission for Iraqi officers being set in Baghdad .
The ministers will also discuss the crisis in Ukraine with their Russian counterpart , Sergei Lavrov .
There are growing tensions between the West and Russia over Ukraine .
Russia has warned against foreign interference in Ukraine 's political crisis .
During the late 18th and 19th centuries , Great Britain established colonies and protectorates in the area of current Malaysia ; these were occupied by Japan from 1942 to 1945 .
In 1948 , the British-ruled territories on the Malay Peninsula formed the Federation of Malaya , which became independent in 1957 .
Malaysia was formed in 1963 when the former British colonies of Singapore and the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak on the northern coast of Borneo joined the Federation .
The first several years of the country 's history were marred by a Communist insurgency , Indonesian confrontation with Malaysia , Philippine claims to Sabah , and Singapore 's secession from the Federation in 1965 .
During the 22-year term of Prime Minister MAHATHIR bin Mohamad ( 1981 - 2003 ) , Malaysia was successful in diversifying its economy from dependence on exports of raw materials to expansion in manufacturing , services , and tourism .
Current Prime Minister Mohamed NAJIB bin Abdul Razak ( in office since April 2009 ) has continued these pro-business policies .
Australia 's foreign minister says Japan has agreed to free two anti-whaling activists being held aboard a Japanese whaling vessel in Antarctic waters .
Foreign Minister Stephen Smith told Australia 's national radio early Wednesday that Japan has not yet handed the men back to their own ship .
Smith added that Australian police are investigating whether there had been any unlawful activity .
Japanese crewmembers seized the men - an Australian and a Briton - Tuesday when they boarded a vessel belonging to Japan 's Institute for Cetacean Research .
The Japanese research institute says the men attacked their vessel with bottles of acid after illegally boarding it .
An Australian court issued a ruling earlier Tuesday that bans Japanese whaling in an area near Antarctica that Australia has designated a whale sanctuary .
Japan does not recognize the sanctuary and has said it will ignore any such injunction .
Scores of people have died in tidal waves that hit Africa 's eastern coast after Sunday 's massive earthquake in southern Asia .
Aid workers and one Somali official say around 50 people are reported dead in northeastern Somalia .
But some reports put the death toll at more than 100 .
A Somali government spokesman says some coastal towns are submerged , and dozens of fishermen are missing .
In Tanzania , officials say at least 10 swimmers died when they were swept out to sea Sunday near the beach at Dar es Salaam .
Police say most of the dead are children .
And further east , at least two people were killed in the island nation of Seychelles .
Several others are reported missing .
One tourist was killed in the Kenyan coastal town of Malindi .
Sunday 's massive waves also left parts of the Mauritian island of Rodrigues under water .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has met with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak for talks on democracy in Egypt and regional issues .
The two met in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan Sunday .
Following their talks , Rice voiced concern about Monday 's referendum to include tough anti-terrorism laws in Egypt 's constitution .
Opposition groups say the amendments would be a setback for basic freedoms in Egypt and strengthen the ruling party 's grip on power .
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit , who also met with Rice , defended the proposed laws , saying Egypt 's security is its own responsibility .
Rice also discussed regional issues with the Egyptian officials and said she appreciates Egypt 's support in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process .
Sierra Leone is an extremely poor nation with tremendous inequality in income distribution .
While it possesses substantial mineral , agricultural , and fishery resources , its physical and social infrastructure has yet to recover from the civil war , and serious social disorders continue to hamper economic development .
Nearly half of the working-age population engages in subsistence agriculture .
Manufacturing consists mainly of the processing of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market .
Alluvial diamond mining remains the major source of hard currency earnings , accounting for nearly half of Sierra Leone 's exports .
The fate of the economy depends upon the maintenance of domestic peace and the continued receipt of substantial aid from abroad , which is essential to offset the severe trade imbalance and supplement government revenues .
The IMF has completed a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility program that helped stabilize economic growth and reduce inflation and in 2010 approved a new program worth $ 45 million over three years .
Political stability has led to a revival of economic activity such as the rehabilitation of bauxite and rutile mining , which are set to benefit from planned tax incentives .
A number of offshore oil discoveries were announced in 2009 and 2010 .
The development on these reserves , which could be significant , is still several years away .
Lebanon has a free-market economy and a strong laissez-faire commercial tradition .
The government does not restrict foreign investment ; however , the investment climate suffers from red tape , corruption , arbitrary licensing decisions , high taxes , tariffs , and fees , archaic legislation , and weak intellectual property rights .
The Lebanese economy is service-oriented ; main growth sectors include banking and tourism .
The 1975 - 90 civil war seriously damaged Lebanon 's economic infrastructure , cut national output by half , and all but ended Lebanon 's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub .
In the years since , Lebanon has rebuilt much of its war-torn physical and financial infrastructure by borrowing heavily - mostly from domestic banks .
In an attempt to reduce the ballooning national debt , the Rafiq HARIRI government in 2000 began an austerity program , reining in government expenditures , increasing revenue collection , and passing legislation to privatize state enterprises , but economic and financial reform initiatives stalled and public debt continued to grow despite receipt of more than $ 2 billion in bilateral assistance at the 2002 Paris II Donors Conference .
The Israeli-Hizballah conflict in July-August 2006 caused an estimated $ 3.6 billion in infrastructure damage , and prompted international donors to pledge nearly $ 1 billion in recovery and reconstruction assistance .
Donors met again in January 2007 at the Paris III Donor Conference and pledged more than $ 7.5 billion to Lebanon for development projects and budget support , conditioned on progress on Beirut 's fiscal reform and privatization program .
An 18-month political stalemate and sporadic sectarian and political violence hampered economic activity , particularly tourism , retail sales , and investment , until the new government was formed in July 2008 .
Political stability following the Doha Accord of May 2008 helped boost tourism and , together with a strong banking sector , enabled real GDP growth of 7 % per year in 2009 - 10 despite a slowdown in the region .
A Democratic Party lawmaker has called for the Republican-led Congress to repeal tax breaks for big oil companies .
In the Democrats ' weekly radio address , Representative Bart Stupak of Michigan accused Republicans of ignoring alleged price gauging by oil companies .
He noted the rising gasoline prices in the United States come as big oil companies are making huge profits .
He called for the development of alternative types of fuel , and for aggressive policies to prevent price gauging .
President Bush on Friday expressed concern about rising gas prices , but he said there was no evidence of over-pricing .
He called for investment in renewable sources of energy and the development of alternative sources of energy .
Pakistani authorities say an unknown gunman has killed three foreign militants in a semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
Security officials say the incident occurred Thursday in North Waziristan .
They say one of the dead is believed to be an Arab and the other two are Uzbeks .
The attacker managed to flee the scene .
It was not immediately clear who the gunman was or what was his motive .
But local government officials say a dispute among the militants could have triggered the shooting .
Pakistan 's military has been trying to flush out foreign militants from the region since last March .
The area is also considered a possible hideout for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
Iran says Israel should return the disputed Golan Heights to Syria unconditionally .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says Israel is in no position to set conditions on the return of the Golan Heights .
Israel captured the strategic plateau from Syria during the 1967 Six-Day war .
Mottaki also called for Israel to pull out of the Palestinian territories .
Israel and Syria recently confirmed they are holding indirect peace talks mediated by Turkey , eight years after U.S.-mediated peace negotiations between Syria and Israel collapsed over the fate of the Golan Heights .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has said his government is prepared to make substantial concessions for peace with Syria .
He has not specified the nature of those concessions .
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem said Wednesday that Israel has expressed a willingness to return the Golan Heights .
Superstar Will Smith is enjoying his latest success with the new film Hitch .
Since the movie opened over four weeks ago it has earned almost $ 200 million ( US ) .
Will plays a Date Doctor attempting to help a client through the problems and challenges that come along with dating .
Will has a new album coming out on March 29 called Lost And Found .
Will Smith has enjoyed tremendous success as an actor and singer since his musical debut in 1991 .
Kyrgyzstan 's old parliament has formally agreed to step down , deferring to newly elected deputies in an effort to reduce political tensions in the central Asian country .
The move to disband came after the new parliament confirmed opposition leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev as prime minister and appointed him acting president .
The development Monday angered opposition protesters who said the new parliament was chosen in rigged elections .
Mass protests over the disputed balloting brought down the previous government and led to the ouster of President Askar Akayev .
Kyrgyz lawmakers have set June 26 for new presidential elections .
U.S. stocks surged more than three percent higher in Tuesday 's trading as some investors expressed confidence that the worst of the credit crisis is over .
Shares of Lehman Brothers Holdings and Swiss bank UBS rose after the two raised a combined $ 19 billion in capital by issuing new stocks .
The successful effort by the banks eased fears that they might need government help like that given to the investment bank Bear Stearns recently .
Investors were also encouraged by the news from the manufacturing sector .
The Institute for Supply Management 's March index rose slightly , beating the expectations of some economists .
New data also showed U.S. construction spending fell less than some economists predicted .
Protests have erupted around the world against Israel 's bombardment of Lebanon and military action in the Gaza Strip .
Thousands of Egyptians gathered at Cairo 's al-Azhar Mosque , waving Lebanese and Palestinian flags and chanting support to Hezbollah - the militant group that is the focus of Israel 's attacks .
Two thousand protesters also marched through the Jordanian capital of Amman and called on Hezbollah to destroy the Israeli city of Haifa .
Thousands of people also took to the streets of Yemen to support the Lebanese and Palestinian people .
Several other protests were held across South Asia , in India Kashmir , cities across Pakistan and the Bangladeshi capital of Dhaka .
Demonstrators also have taken to the streets in Venezuela and El Salvador .
And in Moscow , Russians gathered outside the Israeli embassy to protest the escalating violence .
Haitian President-elect Rene Preval is in Cuba Thursday , for a visit that will include talks with Cuban President Fidel Castro .
The president-elect is traveling with a delegation that includes several members of his future government .
Mr. Preval was elected in February and is due to take office next month .
The Associated Press quotes a Haitian government spokesman as saying that the two leaders are expected to discuss Cuban aid for Haiti .
Mr. Preval was president of Haiti from 1996 to 2001 .
During that time , ties between Cuba and Haiti were warmer .
But relations have suffered since a U.S.-backed interim government was appointed to replace former Haitian president Jean-Bertrand Aristide , who was ousted by a revolt in 2004 .
Liberian President-elect Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has arrived in Ivory Coast Tuesday for her first foreign trip since her election earlier this month .
Few details of the trip have been released .
However , the Reuters news agency quotes her as saying she will be discussing how Liberia and the Ivory Coast can work together for regional peace and stability .
Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf was confirmed last week as winner of Liberia 's first post-war election after a fiercely contested run-off vote against former soccer George Weah .
Mr. Weah 's party - the Congress for Democratic Change - has claimed the vote was fraudulent .
International observers say there was no evidence of widespread fraud .
Salvadoran lawmakers have approved the extension of their country 's military mission in Iraq .
They voted late Thursday to keep soldiers in the war-torn country for humanitarian and reconstruction work for another year .
El Salvador is the last Latin American country with military forces in Iraq .
Honduras , Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic have withdrawn their troops .
El Salvador sent its first group of more than 350 soldiers to Iraq in August 2003 .
Politicians are an honest , moral , ethical and outstanding group of people .
I say this because I 've just spent a week dealing with car salesmen .
U.S. forecasters say Tropical Storm Beta is strengthening as it churns off the coast of Central America and is likely to become a hurricane later Friday .
The National Weather Service says hurricane warnings are in effect for the Colombian islands of San Andres and Providencia , as the slow-moving storm churns 60 kilometers east of San Andres .
Beta is the record 23rd named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season .
It is moving toward the north at six kilometers per hour .
Forecasters say the center of the storm could reach mainland Nicaragua by Sunday .
The storm 's maximum sustained winds are near 100 kilometers per hour and are expected to strengthen Friday .
Beta is expected to dump as much as 38 centimeters of rain across Honduras , Nicaragua , San Andres and Providencia .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has vowed that her government will not be " blackmailed " by insurgents who have kidnapped a German archaeologist in Iraq .
In her first major speech to parliament , Ms. Merkel said Germany is doing everything in its power to return the archeologist , Susanne Osthoff and her driver to safety .
On the domestic front , Ms. Merkel vowed to re-energize Germany 's sluggish economy .
She said that her coalition wants to create the conditions that will make Germany again one of the three fastest growing economies in Europe in 10 years ' time .
Ms. Merkel was sworn in as Germany 's first ever woman Chancellor on November 22 .
She heads a government made up of her conservative Christian Democratic Union party and her predecessor Gerhard Schroeder 's more liberal Social Democrats .
South Africa 's cricket team has scored 218-5 in its first innings in response to the West Indies ' total of 243 on the second day of their second test match at Newlands in Cape Town .
Ashwell Prince and Mark Boucher had an 87-run partnership for South Africa after the home side fell to 131-5 .
Prince and Boucher scored 52 runs in the last 10 overs .
West Indian bowler Dwayne Bravo was 3-46 and Jerome Taylor was 2-45 .
The West Indies leads the three-match series , 1-0 , after taking the first test by 128 runs .
The win was the Caribbean squad 's first in South Africa and its first significant road win since 2000 .
The third test begins January 10th in Durban .
The two sides also will play five one-day international matches beginning January 20th in Centurion .
A HARE having ridiculed the slow movements of a Tortoise , was challenged by the latter to run a race , a Fox to go to the goal and be the judge .
They got off well together , the hare at the top of her speed , the Tortoise , who had no other intention than making his antagonist exert herself , going very leisurely .
After sauntering along for some time he discovered the Hare by the wayside , apparently asleep , and seeing a chance to win pushed on as fast as he could , arriving at the goal hours afterward , suffering from extreme fatigue and claiming the victory .
" Not so , " said the Fox ; " the Hare was here long ago , and went back to cheer you on your way . "
Bosnian Croat war crimes suspect Miroslav Bralo has pleaded not guilty to 21 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity during the 1993 Muslim-Croat fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Mr. Bralo appeared before United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague to answer such charges as murder , rape , torture , and illegal detention of civilians .
The indictment says Mr. Bralo committed the crimes as a member of a Bosnian Croat special unit called " The Jokers " that operated against Muslim forcers in central Bosnia .
He voluntarily surrendered to authorities last month .
U.S. intelligence officials have concluded with what they call " high confidence " that an audiotape posted on an Islamist website contains the voice of terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden .
Officials say the tape , which surfaced Thursday , is consistent in tone and message with previous ones .
The message , which runs more than one hour in length , criticizes the Saudi monarchy for unrest in the country , and mocks its attempts at reform , saying change will only come when the monarchy is removed .
The speaker on the tape also encourages attacks against oil installations in Iraq and the Persian Gulf , and praises the militants who attacked the U.S. consulate in the Saudi city of Jeddah earlier this month , killing five non-American staff members .
This was the latest in a wave of attacks against Saudi and Western interests in the kingdom , which has been battling suspected al-Qaida-linked militants since May 2003 .
A FOX caught in a trap escaped , but in so doing lost his tail .
Thereafter , feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule to which he was exposed , he schemed to convince all the other Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive , thus making up for his own deprivation .
He assembled a good many Foxes and publicly advised them to cut off their tails , saying that they would not only look much better without them , but that they would get rid of the weight of the brush , which was a very great inconvenience .
One of them interrupting him said , " If you had not yourself lost your tail , my friend , you would not thus counsel us . "
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak 's son , Gamal , says he will not run for president in elections set for September .
Speaking Wednesday in Cairo , 41-year-old Gamal Mubarak said recent moves to amend Egypt 's constitution to allow for a multi-candidate election has not changed his mind .
He also denied his father ordered the amendments so that his son could run .
President Mubarak , age 76 and in power since 1981 , has not said whether he will seek a fifth six-year term , although he is widely expected to do so .
Gamal Mubarak 's rapid rise in Egyptian politics has fueled speculation he was being groomed to succeed his father .
He currently serves as policy secretary for the ruling National Democratic Party
Iraqi and U.S. officials say an Iraqi military helicopter has crashed in northern Iraq , killing all eight people aboard , including a U.S. soldier .
Officials say the Russian-made helicopter was found Tuesday near the town of Beiji .
The aircraft had disappeared in bad weather south of the main northern city of Mosul .
Separately , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki Tuesday ordered Iraqi security forces to work hard to find a kidnapped Chaldean Catholic archbishop .
Paulos Faraj Rahho was kidnapped last Friday in Mosul after three of his companions were killed in a shootout .
The prime minister 's office said Mr. Maliki has ordered the interior minister and security officials in Nineveh province to closely follow the case and make every effort to free the archbishop .
The mayor of Mexico City has resigned in order to pursue the presidency in next year 's national elections .
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who is seen as a champion of the poor , announced Friday to thousands of cheering supporters in the Mexican capital that he would fight to transform Mexico .
He listed his numerous achievements as mayor , although some residents say he has not done enough to tackle crime in a city where kidnapping is rampant .
Mr. Lopez Obrador is known for social policies that include construction projects and government funding for single mothers , the elderly and the disabled .
The popular 51-year-old mayor leads public opinion polls ahead of the 2006 presidential race .
The election of Mr. Lopez Obrador would mark a clear change in direction from the free-market reforms supported by incumbent President Vicente Fox , who is limited to one term in office .
Arab broadcaster Al Jazeera has telecast a videotape that shows an Afghan warlord wanted by the United States as saying that he and his followers want to support Osama bin Laden .
On the tape , Gulbuddin Hekmatyar says he hopes to participate and support bin Laden 's battle .
Hekmatyar 's Hizb-e-Islami faction helped end the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan .
After that , he was Afghanistan 's prime minister from June 1993 to June 1994 .
The Taleban chased him out of Kabul in 1996 .
His group has been blamed for several recent attacks against U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan .
Hekmatyar 's videotape comes less than two weeks after bin Laden and his number two Ayman al-Zawahiri issued messages on the so-called war on Islam and the political and security situations in Iraq .
Al Jazeera did not say how it received the tape and it was not clear when it was made .
Three contractors working for the U.N. World Food Program have been kidnapped in Sudan 's Darfur region .
A WFP spokeswoman Amor Almagro said the three are members of a helicopter crew managed by the agency .
She said they were abducted Thursday at an airstrip southeast of Geneina , the capital of West Darfur state .
Bulgaria 's foreign ministry says all three men are Bulgarian nationals .
Bandits and armed groups frequently kidnap U.N. and international aid workers in Darfur .
The kidnappings have increased since March 2009 , when the International Criminal Court indicted Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir for alleged war crimes in the region .
Most of the hostages have been released unharmed .
Darfur has experienced more than seven years of conflict since rebels took up arms against Mr. Bashir 's government in 2003 .
The United Nations says some 300,000 people have died in the conflict , with another 2.7 million displaced from their homes .
Tony Bennett thinks American Idol is too cruel - and said so to celebrity judge Simon Cowell .
Speaking to the British edition of Time Out Magazine , the 80-year-old crooner says his recent appearance on the popular TV talent contest left him dismayed at its treatment of contestants .
" I had it out with Simon [ Cowell ] when I met him and suggested that he should open up tiny clubs across the countries so the kids could break in and learn properly , " he said .
Bennett says Cowell shrugged off his suggestion , saying he was too busy making money .
U.N. officials say peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo have killed more than 50 militiamen in a gun battle in the troubled northeastern Ituri province .
A U.N. spokesman said Wednesday that the clash occurred Tuesday , some 30 kilometers from the town of Bunia .
The spokesman said the U.N. forces responded using an attack helicopter .
The clash comes one week after nine peacekeepers from Bangladesh were killed by militiamen in the same area .
Congolese security forces announced Tuesday that they arrested militia leader Floribert Ndjabu in the capital , Kinshasa and are questioning two other suspects in connection with the killings Mr. Ndjabu is the leader of the ethnic Lendu militia known as the Nationalist and Integrationist Front .
It is one of several militias operating in eastern Congo .
The U.S. military in Iraq says two American soldiers were killed in separate incidents in the country 's north .
A statement issued Saturday said one soldier died Friday near Mosul , about 370 kilometers north of Baghdad .
The statement gave no other details about how the soldier died .
A second statement said a U.S. soldier died Thursday of injuries sustained in a non-combat related incident .
The military says it is investigating both deaths .
Meanwhile , a spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers ' Party , also known as the PKK , said Turkish air strikes on Kurdish rebel targets in northern Iraq killed four rebels earlier this week .
The spokesman Saturday said the air strikes also wounded five others .
Every year millions of unwanted dogs and cats in the U.S. are brought to animal shelters , where the hope is that they will be adopted .
The reality is that about half of them will be euthanized , because there are simply not enough homes for them .
Dealing with abandoned , abused and unwanted pets is a public health and safety issue that concerns most local governments in the U.S.
But the task would be immensely more difficult if it were not for the support and expertise of privately funded animal rescue clinics .
VOA 's George Dwyer reports on how one American animal shelter is working to help control the local pet population .
Ruth Reader narrates .
The U.S. military has released some high-level detainees from Saddam Hussein 's former regime , including two scientists known as " Dr. Germ " and " Mrs. Anthrax . "
An Iraqi lawyer said Monday Rihab Taha and Huda Saleh Mahdi Amash were among 24 people freed .
The U.S. military put the number of high-value detainees released at eight .
Officials say the detainees were freed after a board found they were no longer a security threat .
Meanwhile , at least five people were killed in two insurgent attacks aimed at senior police and government officials in Baghdad Monday .
And the US military says a Marine was killed in action in Ramadi Sunday .
And an Iraqi militant group posted a video on the Internet it says shows the killing of American hostage Ronald Allen Schultz , who was abducted this month .
But the video does not show the victim 's face .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has met with a leading pro-Kurdish politician after the government expressed interest in granting more rights to minority Kurds .
Mr. Erdogan held talks Wednesday with Ahmet Turk , the head of the pro-Kurdish Democratic Society Party .
The meeting is linked to an effort to end the 25-year insurgency by Kurdish rebels .
Officials did not give details about topics under discussion .
Mr. Erdogan has criticized the pro-Kurdish party for not denouncing members of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party as terrorists .
The PKK is listed as a terrorist group by Ankara and much of the international community .
Separatist rebels have been fighting for Kurdish rule in southeastern Turkey for a quarter-century .
Tens of thousands of people have died in the conflict .
Chocolate lovers around the world are invited to Armenia to take a bite of the world 's largest chocolate bar .
The 4,410-kilogram dark chocolate treat will be offered up to the public on October 16 .
The Guinness Book of World Records certified the giant bar as the world 's largest in a ceremony in Yerevan over the weekend .
Made by the Grand Candy factory , the massive chocolate is 70 percent cocoa mass and was made from all natural ingredients using cocoa beans from Ghana .
It is more than 5.5 meters long , 2.7 meters wide and 25 centimeters thick .
The previous record was for a 3,587-kilogram chocolate bar made by Elah Dufour-Novi in Alessandria , Piemonte , Italy , in October 2007 .
Sunni Arab leaders in western Iraq have condemned a joint U.S.-Iraqi offensive in the region , saying it endangers civilians .
The U.S. military launched Operation Steel Curtain early Saturday to restore security along the porous Iraqi-Syrian border and destroy the al-Qaida in Iraq network operating in the area .
Some Sunni Arab politicians and tribal leaders complained that the operation endangers civilians and could lead to greater instability in Sunni sections of the country .
Residents of the town of Husaybah , 320 kilometers northwest of Baghdad , say thunderous explosions shook the town as some 2,500 U.S. troops and 1,000 Iraqi soldiers fought their way through the town .
Elsewhere , at least 11 people were killed when gunmen ambushed a minibus in Balad Ruz , 60 kilometers northeast of Baghdad .
Also , the U.S. military said at least three more soldiers have been killed in separate incidents across Iraq .
New mobile phone buyers in China must register their personal data under a new rule that many see as an invasion of privacy .
As of Wednesday , customers buying numbers for mobile phones must show their identity cards and foreigners must produce passports .
The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology says the measure is aimed at curbing spam and telecommunication fraud .
But critics say they think the government is trying to increase its control over new communications technologies .
The official Xinhua news agency says services will not be affected for those who already have pre-paid SIM cards in their mobile phones .
Xinhua says China has more than 800 million mobile phone users compared to 300 million fixed-line users .
Leading operators China Mobile , China Unicom and China Telecom all say they will implement the new rules .
Suspected Taleban insurgents have killed an Afghan intelligence officer in southeastern Zabul province and wounded a Muslim cleric in southern Helmand province .
Afghan officials say the intelligence officer was shot dead early Thursday in Zabul 's Dai Chopan district .
They say the attackers managed to flee the scene and that despite a massive manhunt no suspects have been arrested .
Meanwhile , in Helmand 's Nurja district , a Muslim cleric was wounded by unidentified gunmen riding a motorcycle .
He was taken to a local hospital for treatment .
A purported Taleban spokesman claimed responsibility for both incidents .
Taleban militants and their supporters have stepped up their violent campaign aimed at disrupting Afghanistan 's parliamentary elections scheduled for September 18 .
A United Nations report issued last month said global food prices will ease from recent record highs because of good grain harvests .
But it predicted prices are unlikely to go back to pre-2007 levels , which is grim news for those who can not afford to eat and others who seek to feed the hungry .
While the world food crisis is most acute in the world 's least developed nations , the elevated costs of staple foodstuffs and fuel are also hitting America 's poor .
The evidence can be seen on the shelves of a large warehouse , used to feed those who need assistance in the eastern U.S. state of Maryland .
That is where VOA 's Malcolm Brown reports .
Four more ministers in Somalia 's transitional government have resigned , citing criticism of Prime Minister Mohammed Ali Gedi .
Water and Mineral Resources minister , Mohamud Salad Nur , and three deputy ministers announced their decision Tuesday , accusing Mr. Ali Gedi of failing to restore stability in Somalia .
Last week , 18 ministers quit the government and another minister was killed by gunmen .
The interim government based in Baidoa has been struggling to launch peace talks with Islamists who oppose the prime minister 's decision to allow Ethiopian troops into the country .
Meanwhile , regional officials met Tuesday in neighboring Kenya to discuss the situation in Somalia and plans to deploy an international peacekeeping mission .
And one Islamic group - the Supreme Islamic Council of Somalia - based in the capital , Mogadishu , said it was opening a sharia court in the central town of Adaado .
Savin Corp. reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 35.2 million , or 31 cents a share , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 3.8 million , or one cent a share .
A spokesman for the Stamford , Conn. based company said operations had a loss of $ 5.5 million for the quarter ; in addition , the loss was magnified by nonrecurring charges totaling $ 23.5 million and $ 8.2 million in asset-valuation adjustments that he described as " unusual . "
The charges were partly offset by a $ 2 million gain on the sale of investments of two joint ventures , he said .
Revenue declined 8 % to $ 85.7 million , from $ 93.3 million a year earlier .
Savin cited " a general softening in the demand for office products in the market segments in which Savin competes . "
A bomb blast at a police station in central Bosnia-Herzegovina has killed one police officer and injured six others .
It is unclear whether someone threw the bomb in the town of Bugojno or it was planted in the building .
Witnesses say the blast seriously damaged nearby buildings and destroyed parked cars .
Police have arrested at least three suspects , but no one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack .
Macedonian government officials say the U.N. war crimes tribunal has indicted former Interior Minister Ljube Boskovski on war crime charges .
Details of the indictment are not yet clear , but media reports say Mr. Boskovski was arrested for his role in the killings of 10 ethnic Albanians during a 2001 clash with Macedonian security forces in the village of Ljubotno , near the capital of Skopje .
Officials say Mr. Boskovski was indicted with another Macedonian officer , Johan Tarulovski .
It is not clear whether Mr. Tarulovski has been connected to the same incident .
The charges mark Macedonia 's first indictments by the tribunal .
Mr. Boskovski is currently in jail in Croatia , where he was charged last month with trying to disguise the killing of seven economic immigrants three years ago as an anti-terrorist raid .
He has denied all allegations .
Japan 's Emperor Akihito , together with Empress Michiko , lays a wreath for U.S. soldiers killed in World War II
China says the Japanese emperor 's surprise visit to a memorial honoring Koreans who died on the island of Saipan during World War II is a positive sign .
Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko traveled to the U.S. territory Monday to pay tribute to the tens of thousands of people killed in fighting between U.S. and Japanese forces on the island in June of 1944 .
Japan occupied much of Asia , including China and the Korean peninsula , in the years before and during the war and sent some 1,000 Korean forced laborers to Saipan .
The official Xinhua news agency quotes a spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry says the royal couple 's visit to the Korean war memorial shows that Japan correctly understands its history of wartime aggression .
Suspected Islamic militants fired a barrage of rockets into a town in northwest Pakistan Wednesday , killing at least nine civilians .
Homes were destroyed and around 40 people were wounded during the attack in Bannu , a town in Pakistan 's troubled Northwest Frontier Province .
That area is where the United States says Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida network has set up safe havens .
Pakistan has seen a wave of militant attacks and suicide bombings since security forces raided a radical mosque in Islamabad .
More than 100 people were killed in the operation , including a top cleric .
On Tuesday , a top Taleban militant blew himself up to avoid arrest by Pakistani forces who had surrounded his hideout in the southwestern Baluchistan province .
Pakistani officials called Abdullah Mehsud 's death a major achievement for the government as it faces U.S. pressure to crack down on extremists .
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about to shut up a wolf with them , when his Dog perceiving the wolf said , " Master , how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you admit a wolf into the fold ? '
Mexican security forces have seized 105 tons of marijuana in the border city of Tijuana , the largest drug bust in the Latin American nation in recent years .
Authorities say the drugs were seized Monday during a series of raids conducted by soldiers and police in three neighborhoods that led to the arrest of 11 people .
Army General Alfonso Duarte said the marijuana carried a street value of more than $ 340 million .
Duarte said the marijuana was wrapped in 10,000 separate packages , and labeled with various signs and logos .
He said the drugs were being prepared for shipment and distribution to the United States .
Mexican military forces have been engaged in a brutal struggle against the country 's violent drug cartels .
Nearly 30,000 people have been killed in Mexico 's drug war since President Felipe Calderon took office in late 2006 and began cracking down on the cartels .
Chinese state media say the number of people who died in a mudslide at an illegal mine in northern China has risen to 128 .
China Central Television says rescue workers continue their search for possible survivors , but hope was fading two days after the slide occurred .
On Monday , heavy rains triggered the collapse of a reservoir of iron-ore waste at the mine in Shanxi province .
The torrent of mud and mining waste plowed into buildings .
State media say 35 people were injured by the massive torrent of mud and debris .
An unknown number of others are still believed to be trapped beneath the rubble .
Chinese work safety officials are blaming the illegal mine for the disaster .
Police have already detained nine of its employees , including the boss of the mine .
Venezuela 's state-run oil company has cut the time for foreign companies to pay for oil purchases from 30 days to eight days .
Petroleos de Venezuela SA ( PDVSA ) said in a statement Tuesday that the decision was made , in part , because of the falling value of the U.S. dollar .
PDVSA also said having the payments sooner will allow it to re-invest its income quickly and remain competitive in the world oil market .
Last year , the Venezuelan government took majority control of large oil projects from foreign companies .
Oil companies like ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips refused to accept new terms as junior partners .
The U.S. State Department has said Venezuela has the right to nationalize its assets but should provide fair compensation .
Venezuela said it would not pay cash for the oil assets it takes over .
Electoral officials in Iraq say they do not have the authority to postpone the nation 's January elections , as demanded by leading Iraqi political groups .
At least 15 mostly Sunni and Kurdish political groups asked the electoral commission Friday to delay the January 30 poll by up to six months because of ongoing violence in the country .
But the commission 's chairman , Abdel Hussein al-Hindawi , said Saturday , that any delay would have to be discussed among various groups , including the Iraqi interim government , parliament and the United Nations .
Meanwhile , a U.S. soldier was killed Saturday , by a roadside bomb near the town of Duluiya , 90 kilometers north of Baghdad .
The U.S. military also says several Iraqi insurgents were killed while attacking a police station and other targets in the town of Khalis , north of Baghdad .
Cuban bassist Orlando " Cachaito " Lopez , a member of the island nation 's legendary Buena Vista Social Club , has died at the age of 76 .
Lopez 's fellow musicians say the bassist died of complications associated with prostate surgery .
Lopez was one of several veteran Cuban musicians brought together in 1996 by U.S. guitarist and music producer Ry Cooder as part of a film documentary and music album .
The musicians had all been a part of the glory days of the Cuban nightclub scene before the rise of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro in 1959 .
The band , which has gained international acclaim since the release of the film and album , has lost many of its key members in recent years , including singers Compay Segundo and Ibrahim Ferrer , and pianist Ruben Gonzalez .
Yemeni authorities said Sunday that an unidentified gunman has killed a senior security official in the southern part of the country , where separatist tensions are mounting .
A provincial official said Jalal al-Uthmani , a high-ranking intelligence officer , was killed late Saturday in a hail of gunfire outside his home in restive Abyan Province .
Also Saturday , tribesmen in eastern Maarib Province blew up an oil pipeline in retaliation for raids targeting al-Qaida sympathizers .
North and South Yemen formally united in 1990 but many in the south say the northern-based government has used unification to funnel resources out of their territories , while denying southerners political rights .
Most of Yemen 's oil facilities are located in the south , which lost a brief 1994 civil war that ended with the region overrun by northern troops .
Iran will call for a cut in OPEC 's , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , oil output during the cartel 's meeting next week in Algeria .
Iran 's oil minster said Sunday that Tehran will push for a production cut of 1.5 million to two million barrels of oil per day , in an attempt to raise prices .
After reaching a record high in July , oil prices have been falling fast as the faltering global economy lowers demand for energy .
But last month members of OPEC decided to delay possible supply cuts despite the steep drop in crude oil prices .
OPEC nations produce 40 percent of the world 's oil .
Russia , a major non-OPEC oil producer , has said it may coordinate a production cut to bolster prices .
President Bush has again defended his defense secretary , Donald Rumsfeld , saying the secretary cares deeply about U.S. troops and the grief war causes .
Asked at a news conference if he was offended that Mr. Rumsfeld has not been personally signing condolence letters to families of troops killed in Iraq , Mr. Bush said he " knows Mr. Rumsfeld 's heart . "
He said the secretary 's demeanor may be rough , but underneath he is a good , decent man .
The defense secretary is under criticism from a number of Republican and Democratic senators over his handling of operations in Iraq .
Mr. Rumsfeld said in a statement Sunday that from now on , he will sign condolence letters in his own hand , instead of using a machine .
Two leading Republican senators said Sunday it would be disruptive to have Mr. Rumsfeld leave office now .
President Bush has surprised his close ally Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi by giving him an electric scooter called a Segway .
Mr. Bush rode the upright two-wheeled vehicle around the State Guest House compound in Kyoto , Japan , before handing it over to Mr. Koizumi and urging him to try it out .
The Japanese prime minister took a one-meter-long journey before saying , " Oh , very good , " and stepping off .
The $ 4,000 scooter uses gyroscopes , computers and motors to travel up to 19 kilometers an hour .
It can be tricky to ride - Mr. Bush was photographed falling off of a Segway in 2003 .
Unfortunately for Mr. Koizumi , Japan has banned the scooters on public streets .
Egypt 's former foreign minister Ahmed Maher has died at the age of 75 .
Egypt 's MENA news agency says Maher died in a hospital Monday due to unspecified health problems .
Maher served as Egypt 's top diplomat from 2001 until 2004 .
A career diplomat , he participated in the Camp David peace talks between Israel and Egypt in 1978 .
Maher was attacked by Palestinian activists in 2003 while visiting al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem .
The activists threw shoes at him , a deep insult in the Arab world .
The incident did not seriously injure Maher , but it underscored tensions surrounding efforts at the time to restart peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians .
Louisiana state officials say the flooding of New Orleans has created environmental problems that may take years to correct .
The state 's top environmental official , Mike McDaniel , told reporters on Tuesday that Hurricane Katrina has left the city with " almost unimaginable " problems .
Concern is centered on the floodwaters contaminated from raw sewage , debris , and other hazardous substances .
The water has been further tainted by two oil spills from local storage facilities .
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has warned people to limit contact with the water due to the risk of illness .
Some experts have expressed concern that the water may kill fish and destroy ecosystems as engineers pump it back into Lake Pontchartrain and the Mississippi River .
But Mr. McDaniel remains hopeful for the long-term , saying nature is resilient and is likely to recover .
Lebanon has again rejected calls from the United Nations to disarm Shi'ite Hezbollah militants , saying it regards the group as a legitimate organization opposing the Israeli occupation of Arab lands .
In Beirut Thursday , Information Minister Ghazi Aridi said any differences between the government and Hezbollah would be settled through internal dialogue .
He spoke one day after the U.N. Security Council received a report saying Lebanon has not done enough to disarm militias in the country .
The report singled out the Iranian- and Syrian-backed Hezbollah , which the United States has labeled a terrorist organization .
It cited Hezbollah for a series of attacks on Israeli forces occupying a disputed area near the borders of Syria , Israel and Lebanon .
Meanwhile , Lebanese troops near the Syrian border remained deployed Thursday near Syrian-backed Palestinian militant bases , where gunmen shot and killed a civilian contractor on Tuesday .
Three of Russia 's smaller political parties are set to merge .
The leader of the Party of Life , Sergei Mironov , said Tuesday that the move will unite his party with the Rodina Party and the Party of Pensioners .
Mironov chairs Russia 's upper chamber of parliament .
The Itar-Tass news agency says he suggested " Rodina , Pensioners and Life - Union of Trust " as the working title for the new group .
Some politicians called the merger an attempt to isolate opponents of Russian President Vladimir Putin , whose supporters hold a majority in the lower house of parliament , the State Duma .
But Mironov , who is said to have close ties to Mr. Putin , dismissed claims that the maneuver is being orchestrated by the Kremlin .
Russia will hold parliamentary elections next year and presidential elections in 2008 .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces have rounded up 32 suspected militants and uncovered a stockpile of more than 500 artillery rounds in a region south of Baghdad .
The military issued the statement Monday .
Thousands of American , British and Iraqi troops are continuing operations to root out insurgents across Iraq ahead of the January elections in the country .
Sunday , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror group claimed responsibility for killing at least 17 Iraqi troops in the northern city of Mosul .
Al-Qaida in Iraq made the claim in an Internet posting that could not be independently verified .
In recent days , U.S. forces in Mosul have found the bodies of more than 50 people -- most of them Iraqi security personnel , who were killed execution-style .
The Israeli military says Israeli warplanes have destroyed offices of an armed wing of the Fatah Movement of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Military officials say helicopters fired missiles at two offices Friday of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades in Gaza City .
Palestinian sources say there were no casualties .
Israel blamed Al-Aqsa for firing rockets at its towns and cities on Thursday .
The Israeli army says one of the rockets fired from Gaza struck an Israeli factory near the town of Ashkelon and set it ablaze , injuring one Israeli .
The army says another rocket hit in the town of Sderot but caused no injuries or damage .
Afghan police say a suicide bomber has killed two soldiers and a child in southern Afghanistan .
Provincial police chief Mohammad Hussein Andiwal says the bomber was on foot when he blew himself up near an Afghan military convoy Saturday in Marja district of Helmand province .
At least four other people were wounded in the blast .
Elsewhere in southern Afghanistan , provincial police chief Jalani Khan says four Afghan police officers were killed Saturday when a roadside bomb exploded in Zabul province .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for either of the blasts .
Taliban militants have stepped up attacks on Afghan and foreign troops in recent months .
Israel allowed three Turkish ships from the fatal Gaza-bound flotilla to leave on Thursday and head back to Turkey .
Turkish tugboats at the port of Haifa Thursday morning towed the Mavi Marmaraout to sea .
The passenger ship was at the center of a high seas Israeli raid on May 31 that left nine people dead .
Israel says it was acting in self-defense but the action raised international outrage .
Two other boats also commandeered by Israel were due to be towed out of the southern port of Ashdod .
Israel says it complied with Turkey 's demands to return the ships .
Earlier this week , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that Israel will be cooperating with a probe into the flotilla incident ordered by United Nations Chief Ban Ki-moon .
Iraqi police say a suicide car bombing in the northern city of Arbil has killed at least 11 people and wounded dozens more - mostly new police recruits .
Officials say the death toll could rise as many of the wounded were in serious condition .
Witness say security forces fired on the car in an effort to stop the suicide bomber , but he raced his vehicle into a field where some 200 new recruits had gathered for training early Monday .
Hours earlier , at least five Iraqi policemen were killed and nearly 20 others wounded in a car bomb explosion near a police station in Baghdad .
The U.S. military said the explosion occurred as police responded to an insurgent attack on the Baya police station .
A group of leading Muslim scholars has sent holiday greetings to Christians worldwide .
In wishing a joyful and peaceful Christmas , the group also gave thanks for what it calls the " beautiful and gracious " response to its call for more openness between the faiths .
The group said it hopes the coming year will be one of forgiveness and where the dignity of human life is upheld .
Pope Benedict last month accepted an invitation by the 138 Muslim scholars to meet and talk about more cooperation between Muslims and Christians .
The Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean says the percentage of people living in poverty in the region has declined for the second straight year .
In a report released Friday , the U.N. panel said 13 million people have climbed out of poverty since 2003 .
It says better economic conditions and remittances sent home by emigrants working abroad have contributed to the decline .
The organization 's executive director , Jose Luis Machinea , said projected figures for this year show the lowest poverty rates since the early 1980s , but he cautioned that two years of growth will not solve the region 's problems .
The U.N. report says 213 million people , or nearly 41 percent of Latin Americans , live in poverty .
Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has repeated that his country has no interest in building nuclear bombs , but that possessing nuclear technology is its legal right .
Ayatollah Khamenei told thousands of worshippers at Friday prayers in Tehran that Western nations are trying to mislead public opinion with accusations that Tehran is seeking to build nuclear weapons .
He said Iran only seeks to generate nuclear power for electricity .
The Europeans have offered to sell Iran nuclear fuel , but Ayatollah Khamenei rejected that , saying it would mean Iranian dependence on foreign powers .
The Europeans have been conducting negotiations with Iran in hopes of persuading Tehran to permanently halt their uranium enrichment activities in exchange for a package of political and economic incentives .
Amnesty International is calling on the U.N. Security Council to impose an immediate arms embargo on Burma for its violent crackdown on peaceful pro-democracy demonstrators .
The London-based human rights group says a comprehensive and mandatory embargo should remain in place until Burma 's military rulers verifiably improve human rights , including the release of all political prisoners .
Amnesty International 's deputy program director for the Asia / Pacific region , Catherine Baber , spoke to VOA 's Mandy Clark about the treatment of protesters in Burma .
At least 223 people in Latin America have been killed in several days of severe weather triggered by Hurricane Stan .
The region has been pounded with heavy rains , mudslides and flooding from the storm , which came ashore Tuesday on Mexico 's eastern Gulf Coast .
Rescuers in Guatemala Thursday pulled 40 bodies from a mudslide about 100 kilometers west of Guatemala City .
Dozens of other people were killed elsewhere in Central America and Mexico after the storm ripped through the region , triggering the floods and mudslides and knocking down power lines and ripping apart houses .
Tens of thousands of people fled their homes , and many remain homeless .
The United Nations says it is rushing assistance to El Salvador and Costa Rica , and remains ready to mobilize international support for emergency relief and recovery efforts .
Italian opera star Luciano Pavarotti has been hospitalized for medical tests in his hometown in northern Italy .
A spokesman for the Modena Polyclinic says Pavarotti was admitted earlier this week .
The hospital is to issue a statement later Thursday .
The 71-year-old underwent surgery for pancreatic cancer last year .
The illness forced him to cancel his 2006 farewell opera tour .
The beloved classical singer has impressed opera aficionados with his tenor voice , performing challenging works in nearly every major opera and concert hall around the world .
He has also won fans with his warm personality off the stage .
Throughout his career , Pavarotti has used his celebrity to raise millions of dollars for the U.N. refugee agency and other charitable causes .
Numerous health studies have found exercise directly impacts people 's well being .
An organization in Washington is taking this a step further : promoting good health while also building camaraderie among women .
Washington Women Outdoors is an organization that is helping women develop their leadership skills through outdoor sports and activities .
VOA 's Monaliza Noormohammadi has more .
Leading opposition candidate Emmanuel Akitani-Bob Togo 's opposition says its main candidate who lost disputed presidential elections has suffered a stroke and was flown to France .
Opposition officials say Emmanuel Akitani-Bob , 74 , is being treated at the American Hospital in Neuilly , outside Paris .
Medical staff say Mr. Akitani-Bob has suffered partial paralysis to the left side of his body .
He lost presidential elections in April to Faure Gnassingbe , the son of Togo 's late ruler Gnassingbe Eyadema .
But the opposition says the poll was rigged , and Mr. Akitani-Bob proclaimed himself president .
He is widely seen as a stand-in candidate for Gilchrist Olympio , an opposition leader who was barred from running in the poll because he has lived outside Togo since the 1990s .
Iraq 's electoral commission says partial results from Sunday 's elections show the main Shi'ite coalition is leading in six mainly Shi'ite provinces where most of the votes have been counted .
The United Iraqi Alliance , which has the support of influential Shi'ite cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , is ahead with about 75 percent of the 1.6 million ballots counted .
The candidate list led by interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi , who is also a Shi'ite , has about 20 percent of the vote in those provinces .
Final results from all 18 provinces are not expected for another week .
In another development , the head of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan , Jalal Talabani , said he would seek the post of either prime minister or president in the new government .
Meanwhile , at least 10 Iraqis have been killed in attacks Thursday .
North Korea announced Saturday it will close two aviation routes through its air space from April 4 through April 8 during a planned rocket launch .
The North says it will launch a communication satellite .
The United States , Japan and South Korea say Pyongyang intends to test a long-range ballistic missile .
They say the launch would violate a U.N. Security Council resolution imposed in 2006 after North Korea tested long range missiles and a nuclear weapon .
Japan and South Korea have warned North Korea it will face a strong international response if it goes ahead with the launch .
Japan has said it will attempt to shoot down missiles headed toward its territory .
Top U.S. military commanders told members of Congress this week the American military is probably capable of shooting down a long-range North Korean missile if it threatens U.S. territory .
Turkish authorities say two earthquakes have shaken the country 's third largest city , Izmir .
They say the earthquakes , measuring 5.7 and 5.9 on the Richter scale , were centered beneath the Aegean Sea near the Turkish coast .
Several other Turkish cities and Greek islands were rattled by the quakes .
At least 30 people were injured .
No severe building damage was reported , but several house chimneys collapsed , and cracks opened in building walls .
Turkey lies on several geological fault lines and is often hit by earthquakes .
A major quake in 1999 killed more than 17,000 people in the northwestern part of the country .
Germany has freed a Lebanese man who was sentenced to life in prison for hijacking an American airliner and killing a U.S. Navy diver 20 years ago .
German justice officials confirmed Tuesday that Mohammed Ali Hamadi was released on parole after a routine review of his case , and they say he already has left Germany .
Sources in Lebanon say Hamadi , a member of the Hezbollah militant group , has returned to Beirut , the focal point of the 1985 hijacking .
Hamadi was convicted in the hijacking of a TWA airliner that took off from Athens in 1985 .
U.S. Navy diver Robert Stethem , a passenger on the plane , was killed while the commandeered jet was on the ground in Beirut .
The German Foreign Ministry has denied any link between Hamadi 's parole and the recent release of a German hostage in Iraq .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer has called on Pakistan and NATO countries to step up their fight against Islamist militants along the Pakistani-Afghan border .
He said that a planned troop increase in Afghanistan will help foreign forces control some areas of the country , but that the international community must help with development and reconstruction to bring peace and stability to the nation .
The NATO chief spoke in Islamabad Thursday after talks with Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi , President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani .
Their talks centered on security in the border region and Pakistan 's growing relationship with the alliance .
Also Thursday , Pakistani security officials said government forces backed by helicopter gunships killed 11 militants in the country 's restive Swat Valley .
U.S. and NATO officials say Pakistan 's northwest tribal regions have become a safe haven for militants linked to the Taliban and al-Qaida .
India has suspended railway service to and from Pakistan in the wake of the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .
Officials in New Delhi did not say when the service would be restored .
Authorities are concerned that violence by angry Bhutto supporters in Pakistan will spill across the border into India .
Militants have targeted trains in the past , including the fatal firebombing of a Pakistan-bound train in India earlier this year .
Sixty-eight people were killed in that February attack .
A new report from a private research group says the U.S. economy was declining even before the most recent financial market turmoil .
The Conference Board 's index of leading indicators for August shows the index falling five-tenths of one percentage point to a reading of 100.8 .
The index was published Thursday and is intended to forecast trends three to six months in advance .
A separate government report pointed to one bright spot in the economy , as exports are boosting the manufacturing sector .
A report on Philadelphia area factories shows their activity increasing this month .
Economists watch this area report for clues about the health of the factory sector nationwide .
The family of a former U.S. federal agent missing in Iran since March says Iranian authorities have blocked a U.S. request for Swiss diplomats to visit his last known location .
Former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent Bob Levinson was last seen in the Iranian resort of Kish Island while on a business trip .
His wife , Christine Levinson , told the Washington Post that she is particularly interested in locating her husband 's missing duffle bag .
She did not provide further details .
The Iranian government has denied any knowledge of the missing man , but the U.S. State Department says it finds that claim hard to believe .
A group of 50 foreign policy experts and former government officials from Europe and the United States have drafted a partnership agreement - a move aimed at restoring transatlantic ties ahead of President Bush 's trip to Europe next week .
The group released the pact Thursday , saying it demonstrates that a common strategy between the United States and Europe can be forged to deal with international challenges .
The agreement covers a host of key foreign policy concerns , including Iraq , Afghanistan , the Geneva Conventions , climate change , peace in the Middle East , China and Iran 's nuclear activities .
On Iraq , the pact calls on the United States to start a " strategic dialogue " with European allies .
The European Union would commit to training 5,000 civil servants and 25,000 Iraqi security and police forces per year .
The agreement was hammered out during meetings at a Washington think tank , the Brookings Institution .
The U.S. Gulf Coast states of Mississippi and Louisiana have declared states of emergency , in preparation for Hurricane Katrina , which is forecast to make landfall somewhere along the coast on Monday .
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour and Louisiana 's Kathleen Blanco issued the declarations as the dangerous hurricane strengthened over the warm Gulf waters Saturday and evacuations of low-lying areas began .
At last report , the 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season was 628 kilometers southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River .
The slow-moving system had 185 kilometer-per-hour winds as it moved in a westerly direction .
Hurricane Katrina slammed into southeast Florida Thursday , leaving at least seven people dead .
The storm caused widespread flooding , toppled trees and left about a million people without electricity .
Insured losses from Katrina 's first strike are now estimated at $ 1 billion .
Jordan 's government says it has arrested an Iraqi woman who planned to blow herself up during Wednesday 's suicide bombings at hotels in Amman .
Officials say the woman is the wife of one of the three Iraqi suicide bombers who killed 57 people at three hotels .
They say her bomb failed to go off at a wedding reception at the Radisson Hotel and that her husband made her leave before blowing himself up .
Jordanian authorities say the woman also had a brother who was a key aide to al-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and who was killed in the Iraqi city of Fallujah .
The group claimed responsibility for the hotel bombings .
They say the woman will appear on Jordanian television later Sunday to identify herself and make a confession .
The United Nations says funding problems may force it to ground the helicopters that are delivering relief to Pakistani earthquake survivors in remote mountainous regions .
U.N. agencies say they have only received one quarter of the money countries pledged for earthquake aid .
They say the funding shortfall is delaying their work to help survivors before the Himalayan winter .
But U.S. military officials promised Tuesday they will continue flying their helicopter missions to help survivors .
Hours later , the U.S. military says a rocket-propelled grenade was fired at a helicopter delivering aid .
It says the helicopter was not hit and no one was injured .
Pakistani officials say there was no attack and that the helicopter crew heard dynamite being used to clear mudslides triggered by the quake .
The October 8 earthquake killed more than 58,000 people , most of them in Pakistani-controlled Kashmir .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say two suspected Islamic militants have been killed and 15 people wounded in two separate incidents .
Indian army officials say the militants were shot and killed after they crossed into Indian Kashmir from the Pakistani side of the disputed region .
They say one Indian security officer was wounded in the fighting .
In the town of Bijbehera , south of Srinagar , suspected militants hurled a grenade at a police patrol , wounding 15 people .
Militant separatist groups in Indian Kashmir continue their attacks against government targets , saying they oppose the ongoing peace process between India and Pakistan .
Kashmiri militants have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century .
No formal territorial claims were made until 1770 , when Capt. James COOK took possession of the east coast in the name of Great Britain ( all of Australia was claimed as British territory in 1829 with the creation of the colony of Western Australia ) .
Six colonies were created in the late 18th and 19th centuries ; they federated and became the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901 .
The new country took advantage of its natural resources to rapidly develop agricultural and manufacturing industries and to make a major contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and II .
In recent decades , Australia has transformed itself into an internationally competitive , advanced market economy .
It boasted one of the OECD 's fastest growing economies during the 1990s , a performance due in large part to economic reforms adopted in the 1980s .
Long-term concerns include ageing of the population , pressure on infrastructure , and environmental issues such as frequent droughts .
Iran is denying an opposition group 's claim that it is building a clandestine underground nuclear enrichment facility west of Tehran .
On Thursday , the People 's Mujahedeen Organization of Iran claimed that it had discovered evidence of the site 120 kilometers west of the capital .
A group spokesman said the project was about 85 percent complete .
But Iranian nuclear chief Ali Akbar Salehi said Friday Tehran does not have such a facility .
Salehi said if the opposition group had any details of a secret nuclear facility it should inform Iran " so that we can thank them . "
A U.S. government official also disputed the claim , telling the Associated Press that the U.S. has known about the facility for years and that it does not appear to have a nuclear role .
The Chinese city of Harbin has restored running water for nearly four-million people , after a five-day cutoff forced by toxic pollution in the river that supplies the city .
State television showed the local governor drinking a glass of boiled water and reassuring locals it was safe to drink .
But the Associated Press quotes the deputy general of the Harbin water department saying residents should not immediately drink the water - even if it is boiled .
Wang Minghe said the water is still dangerous because it has been sitting in pipes and may be contaminated from the benzene spill .
Officials say the 80-kilometer-long chemical slick in the Songhua River has passed Harbin .
It is expected to reach Russia within days .
A November 13 factory explosion caused 100 tons of potentially cancer-causing benzene to spill into the river upstream from the city .
A series of five stamps issued by Mexican government depicting an exaggerated black cartoon character known as Memin Pinguin A newly issued Mexican postage stamp of a once-popular black comic book character has sparked controversy .
Local and U.S. activists have called for the withdrawal of the stamp , which depicts a 1940 's comic character called Memin Pinguin who has exaggerated thick lips and wide-opened eyes .
American civil rights activist Jesse Jackson has called the stamp racist .
But a presidential spokesman says the stamp is a celebration of Mexico 's pop culture .
The release of the stamp comes just weeks after Mexican President Vicente Fox angered many African-Americans by saying illegal Mexican immigrants are willing to do jobs in the United States not even blacks want to do .
Mr. Fox apologized for any misunderstanding , saying he was only trying to highlight the important contribution of Mexican workers in the United States .
Most Cambodians consider themselves to be Khmers , descendants of the Angkor Empire that extended over much of Southeast Asia and reached its zenith between the 10th and 13th centuries .
Attacks by the Thai and Cham ( from present-day Vietnam ) weakened the empire , ushering in a long period of decline .
The king placed the country under French protection in 1863 and it became part of French Indochina in 1887 .
Following Japanese occupation in World War II , Cambodia gained full independence from France in 1953 .
In April 1975 , after a five-year struggle , Communist Khmer Rouge forces captured Phnom Penh and evacuated all cities and towns .
At least 1.5 million Cambodians died from execution , forced hardships , or starvation during the Khmer Rouge regime under POL POT .
A December 1978 Vietnamese invasion drove the Khmer Rouge into the countryside , began a 10-year Vietnamese occupation , and touched off almost 13 years of civil war .
The 1991 Paris Peace Accords mandated democratic elections and a ceasefire , which was not fully respected by the Khmer Rouge .
UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some semblance of normalcy under a coalition government .
Factional fighting in 1997 ended the first coalition government , but a second round of national elections in 1998 led to the formation of another coalition government and renewed political stability .
The remaining elements of the Khmer Rouge surrendered in early 1999 .
Some of the surviving Khmer Rouge leaders have been tried or are awaiting trial for crimes against humanity by a hybrid UN-Cambodian tribunal supported by international assistance .
Elections in July 2003 were relatively peaceful , but it took one year of negotiations between contending political parties before a coalition government was formed .
In October 2004 , King Norodom SIHANOUK abdicated the throne and his son , Prince Norodom SIHAMONI , was selected to succeed him .
Local elections were held in Cambodia in April 2007 , with little of the pre-election violence that preceded prior elections .
National elections in July 2008 were relatively peaceful .
Former Sudanese rebels say government forces entered rebel territory in eastern Sudan and threatened to evict them .
The former southern rebels from the Sudan People 's Liberation Movement say about three-thousand soldiers entered the eastern town of Hamesh Koreb Wednesday and ordered them to leave .
A spokesman for the former rebels called the move a violation of the peace deal signed one year ago between the southern rebels and the government .
The former rebels had agreed to leave the town by January 9 .
But the rebel spokesman said that deadline could not be met due to logistical problems - and that the rebels had informed Khartoum of the delay .
Earlier Wednesday , eastern rebels said they had been attacked in the area by Sudanese armed forces .
During the southern civil war , southern rebels fought alongside eastern rebels .
The southern rebels have joined in a power-sharing government , while the eastern rebels have not .
The Indonesian government has sued Newmont Mining Corporation for $ 133 million over alleged pollution near one of its gold mines .
The Indonesian subsidiary of the American mining giant faces charges that it released waste and heavy metals into the air and water at Buyat Bay in northern Sulawesi province .
Newmont 's American president also faces charges in the suit .
A lawyer for the mining company says Jakarta 's case is baseless .
Tests on the bay 's water have produced conflicting results .
Two studies indicated no pollution in the bay .
However a subsequent government probe reported elevated arsenic levels .
Newmont has admitted releasing mercury into the environment at the gold mine , but denies that it sickened local people .
Haitian president-elect Rene Preval says Haiti 's constitution permits former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide to return from exile in South Africa .
In a news conference Wednesday , Mr. Preval said his position on Mr. Aristide is simple : the constitution says no Haitian citizen needs a visa to enter or leave the country .
Earlier Wednesday , Mr. Aristide told reporters in Pretoria , South Africa , that the date of his return to Haiti depends upon negotiations between Mr. Preval , the United Nations and other interested parties .
He said when he returns he will not be involved in politics , but instead would like to teach .
Mr. Aristide has been living in exile since he was forced out of office in February 2004 after an armed uprising .
Mr. Preval was once a close political ally to Mr. Aristide , but has distanced himself in recent years .
North Korea has asked Japan to return remains Pyongyang claims belong to a Japanese woman kidnapped decades ago .
The demand , published by North Korean state-run media , comes after Japanese forensic experts said the remains were not those of Megumi Yokota , who was kidnapped in 1977 .
North Korea says Ms. Yokota committed suicide in 1994 , and accused certain forces in Japan of faking the test results to promote anti-Pyongyang sentiment .
Japanese media reported Wednesday that Tokyo will ask North Korea conduct another investigation into the fate of eight kidnap victims from the 1970s and 1980s that Pyongyang says have died , as well as two more whose status is unclear .
Burma is reporting new cases of bird flu among poultry at a farm north of Rangoon , the fifth such outbreak in the country in recent weeks .
Burmese state media say 1,600 chickens died from the H5N1 strain of the virus on a farm in Hmawbi township ( 40 kilometers north of Rangoon ) over the past week .
The farm 's remaining 20,000 poultry were culled as a precautionary measure .
The state-controlled New Light of Myanmar newspaper says the new outbreak may have been caused by the movement of people and birds in the area .
It says authorities have banned the sale and transport of poultry within six-kilometers of the farm .
The latest series of bird flu outbreaks in and around Rangoon began last month .
They are the first reported in Burma since March 2006 .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he is prepared to meet with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe to defuse tensions over the seizure of a top Colombian rebel leader in Venezuela last month .
Mr. Chavez spoke Sunday , a day after Mr. Uribe offered to discuss the issue with him .
There has been no announcement from either side about whether such a meeting will take place .
Mr. Chavez accuses neighboring Colombia of paying bounty hunters to catch Rodrigo Granda , a member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) .
Venezuela froze trade relations with Colombia Friday , and Mr. Chavez said they would remain suspended until Colombia apologizes .
Mr. Chavez also said Sunday the United States is trying to divide South America by supporting Colombia in the dispute .
Aid workers and government officials in southern Ethiopia say continued clan violence has displaced nearly 90,000 people .
United Nations officials say fighting between the Guji and Borena clans has forced residents to flee homes in and around the towns of Shakiso , Arero and Yabello - all south of Addis Ababa .
A regional administrator , Jaatanni Taadhii , says up to 29,000 have fled their homes in Arero , while an aid worker in Yabello says the number of displaced there may be as high as 39,000 .
The aid group Oxfam says more than 20,000 people have fled Shakiso since mid-June .
This fighting began early last month after the government sided with the Guji community in a land dispute against its Borena neighbors .
Aid groups say more than 100 people have died in the violence .
Crude oil prices fell below $ 70 a barrel Thursday after coalition forces in Iraq killed a key terrorist leader .
The price of oil for future delivery fell more than one dollar in electronic trading in New York to $ 69.54 a barrel .
Oil prices also declined for London 's benchmark Brent crude oil .
Some investors speculate that the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi will ease the attacks and sabotage that have slowed Iraqi oil exports for the past three years .
Iraq has the world 's third largest oil reserves , but it exports less oil now than it did before the U.S.-led invasion .
But analysts point out that prices were declining even before Zarqawi death , as investors reacted to rising oil inventories in the United States and easing tensions over Iran 's nuclear program .
A brother of Afghan President Hamid Karzai says he survived an attack Monday on his motorcade that killed one of his bodyguards .
Ahmad Wali Karzai said he was traveling from eastern Afghanistan to the capital of Kabul at the time of the attack .
It was not immediately clear who was behind the attack , but the country is in the middle of a growing Taliban insurgency .
Afghan authorities said militants attacked a police post and killed six officers Sunday in southern Helmand province .
The Afghan Defense Ministry also said a roadside bomb in neighboring Zabul province killed an Afghan army soldier and wounded three others Sunday .
Afghan and international forces have been fighting Taliban militants since 2001 .
U.S. President Barack Obama is sending an extra 21,000 troops to Afghanistan to try to crush the insurgency .
The judge hearing British 100-meter sprint champion Dwain Chambers ' appeal of a lifetime Olympic ban has delayed his decision until Thursday .
Chambers served a two-year doping ban between 2003 and 2005 and appealed to London 's High Court for an injunction against the British Olympic Association 's ban for drug cheats .
The 30-year-old Chambers earned an Olympic qualifying time Saturday when he won the 100 meters in 10 seconds flat at the British Olympic trials .
The one-day delay leaves selection of Britain 's team up in the air and leaves even less time for either Chambers or the British Olympic Association to appeal the judge 's verdict .
Sunday is the deadline to submit the squad to the International Olympic Committee .
Hong Kong Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa met Saturday with Chinese President Hu Jintao , amid expectations the territory 's unpopular leader will resign .
Mr. Tung is in Beijing to attend a meeting of China 's nominal lower house , the Chinese People 's Political Consultative Conference ( CPPCC ) .
President Hu congratulated the Hong Kong leader on becoming a CPPCC member .
He told Mr. Tung that his experience in ruling Hong Kong would be useful for his work in the body .
Expectations that Mr. Tung would retire as Hong Kong 's leader more than two years from the end of his term have intensified since it was announced last week he was joining the CPPCC .
However , Mr. Tung has yet to indicate he will quit .
Australian striker Harry Kewell has been cleared to play in his team 's crucial World Cup match against Croatia , following an animated argument with the referee after the Aussies ' 2-0 loss to Brazil in Munich on Sunday .
FIFA head of communications Markus Siegler said Tuesday , the disciplinary committee for football 's world governing body cleared the Liverpool striker because of inconsistent reports from the referee .
Match referee Markus Merk of Germany had complained that Kewell insulted him during a confrontation that lasted several minutes .
Merk called 25 fouls against Australia but just nine on defending champion Brazil .
Kewell characterized his exchange with Merk as " heat of the moment stuff . "
Australia is making its first World Cup appearance in 32 years and needs at least a draw against Croatia Thursday in Stuttgart to advance to the second round .
Sri Lanka 's president has acknowledged she had asked United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan not to visit a tsunami-hit area controlled by Tamil rebels .
President Chandrika Kumaratunga said in Colombo Monday she advised Mr. Annan not go to the northern town of Jaffna held by Tamil Tiger rebels because of concerns over security .
Rebel officials expressed anger , and hundreds of Tamils demonstrated Sunday outside the U.N. offices in Jaffna to protest the cancellation of Mr. Annan 's planned visit .
Mr. Annan said although he was the guest of the Sri Lankan government , he was concerned about everyone who needs humanitarian aid .
He also urged the government and the Tamil rebels to put aside their differences as the region struggles to rebuild .
Israeli officials say despite heavy fighting in southern Lebanon they have not committed the bulk of their force to the battle - to give time for diplomatic efforts to bring about a cease-fire .
Some of the heaviest fighting of the month-long conflict is now underway .
Israeli ground troops on Thursday say they have largely gained control of the town of Marjayoun , a strategic hilltop location near the Litani river .
Large numbers of Israeli troops are battling Hezbollah militants in southern Lebanon .
Hezbollah says it has destroyed a number of Israeli tanks so far .
On Wednesday , Israel 's Cabinet authorized the army to push north to the Litani , about 20 kilometers from the border .
However Israeli officials like Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni say the bulk of their invasion force has not yet entered Lebanon , saying Israel will give U.N. diplomats a little more time to reach a cease-fire .
Livni says it is important to allow diplomatic efforts to continue as part of the effort to get Hezbollah militants out of southern Lebanon .
The economy depends largely on financial assistance from the UK , which amounted to about $ 27 million in FY06/07 or more than twice the level of annual budgetary revenues .
The local population earns income from fishing , raising livestock , and sales of handicrafts .
Because there are few jobs , 25 % of the work force has left to seek employment on Ascension Island , on the Falklands , and in the UK .
Finland has a highly industrialized , largely free-market economy with per capita output roughly that of Austria , Belgium , the Netherlands , and Sweden .
Trade is important with exports accounting for over one third of GDP in recent years .
Finland is strongly competitive in manufacturing - principally the wood , metals , engineering , telecommunications , and electronics industries .
Finland excels in high-tech exports such as mobile phones .
Except for timber and several minerals , Finland depends on imports of raw materials , energy , and some components for manufactured goods .
Because of the climate , agricultural development is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency in basic products .
Forestry , an important export earner , provides a secondary occupation for the rural population .
Finland had been one of the best performing economies within the EU in recent years and its banks and financial markets avoided the worst of global financial crisis .
However , the world slowdown hit exports and domestic demand hard in 2009 , with Finland experiencing one of the deepest contractions in the euro zone .
A recovery of exports , domestic trade , and household consumption stimulated economic growth in 2010 .
The recession left a deep mark on general government finances and the debt ratio , turning previously strong budget surpluses into deficits .
Despite good growth prospects , general government finances will remain in deficit during the next few years .
The great challenge of economic policy will be to implement a post-recession exit strategy in which measures supporting growth will be combined with general government adjustment measures .
Longer-term , Finland must address a rapidly aging population and decreasing productivity that threaten competitiveness , fiscal sustainability , and economic growth .
Sudan 's government and two rebel groups have pledged to continue seeking an end to more than two years of fighting in the western Darfur region .
Representatives meeting in Nigeria Tuesday signed a " declaration of principles " intended to guide future peace talks sponsored by the African Union .
AU officials say the next round of talks will begin August 24 .
The latest deal calls for a solution to refugee and security problems , but does not include detailed proposals .
Meantime , a top U.S. official has expressed concern at humanitarian conditions in Darfur , despite an apparent decline in violence there .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick says health conditions remain serious in Darfur , where fighting has displaced more than 2 million people .
He is to travel to Darfur and Khartoum later this week .
Still embarrased by the last Super Bowl halftime show , the National Football League has announced Paul McCartney will be the featured performer at the championship game on February 6 in Jacksonville , Florida .
Janet Jackson 's breast was bared last February during a duet with pop star Justin Timberlake , which spurred hundreds of thousands of complaints to federal broadcast regulators .
NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy says all facets of the upcoming 12-minute show have been reviewed , including talent selection , song selection and costume selection .
Watched by more than 144 million viewers in the United States last year , the Super Bowl is the nation 's highest-rated TV program and the most-watched single-day sporting event .
The game will be broadcast in more than 200 countries worldwide .
U.S. President George Bush has approved an extension of a trade agreement with four South American nations .
Mr. Bush Thursday said the Andean Trade Preference Act shows the U.S. commitment to economic growth in the region .
The measure , first enacted in 1991 , lifts trade barriers with Bolivia , Colombia , Ecuador and Peru .
But , the president said he has proposed suspending Bolivia 's trade preferences because the country has failed to cooperate with the United Sates on efforts to fight drug trafficking .
Mr. Bush also reiterated his call for Congress to approve free trade agreements with Colombia , Panama and South Korea .
Citing the current financial crisis , Mr. Bush said keeping markets open to trade and investment is one of the best ways to restore global economic confidence .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer says the door is open for the former Soviet republic of Georgia to join the alliance .
De Hoop Scheffer said Thursday he is encouraged by Georgia 's improvements in recent years .
But he added Tbilisi still needs to implement judicial and other democratic reforms before Georgia can gain NATO entry .
The NATO chief made his comments at a news conference after conferring with Georgia 's president , Mikhail Saakashvili , in the town of Singnaghi .
Earlier in the day , de Hoop Scheffer also met with other senior Georgian officials
Georgia has been striving to build closer ties with the United States and other Western countries as it actively seeks NATO entry .
Neighboring Russia opposes Georgia 's NATO membership aspirations .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney has defended eavesdropping on Americans without court approval , saying the practice is critical to national security .
Speaking to a conservative policy institute , the Manhattan Institute , in New York , Cheney said the practice is a wartime measure , limited in scope and fully consistent with both the president 's legal powers and Americans ' civil liberties .
Warrantless wiretaps on e-mails and telephone calls that cross U.S. boundaries was revealed by the New York Times last month .
Administration critics describe the policy as an unprecedented expansion of presidential powers and violation of civil liberties .
Senators have promised to hold hearings on the legality of the program .
Cheney said Thursday that the policy was approved by Congress , although the leader of the Senate at the time denies this .
Spain 's Constitutional Court has ruled that the nation 's courts may investigate allegations of human rights abuses even if no Spanish citizens are involved .
The court said in its decision Wednesday that the principle of universal jurisdiction takes precedence over the existence , or not , of national interests .
The decision came from a case brought by Guatemalan Nobel peace laureate Rigoberta Menchu .
She sought a probe of alleged genocide , murder , torture , and illegal detention of ethnic Indians in Guatemala between 1978 and 1986 , while the country was under military rule .
Events covered in the lawsuit include a 1980 attack on the Spanish Embassy in Guatemala City , in which more than 35 people died .
Wednesday 's decision reversed earlier rulings that Spain could only investigate cases in which the victims were Spanish .
In a key warm-up for the Wimbledon Championships , Croatian tennis player Mario Ancic has defeated Czech player Jan Hernych , 6-4 , 6-4 to reach the finals of the Ordina Open in Den Bosch , the Netherlands .
The Croatian next takes on Frenchman Michael Llodra , who scored a three-set win over Australian Mark Philippoussis ( 7-6 , 6-7 , 6-3 ) .
Llodra and Ancic have met once before , in Bratislava in 2002 with the Croatian winning in straight sets ( 6-4 , 7-6 ) .
In women 's play , Czech player Klara Koukalova overcame a first-set loss to beat countrywoman Lucie Safarova in three sets , 3-6 , 6-2 , 6-2 .
The victory was Koukalova 's first WTA tournament title .
The tournament is one of several grass-court events players are using to prepare for Wimbledon , which starts Monday in London .
Authorities in southern India say a shootout between security forces and suspected Maoist rebels has killed eight rebels , including four women .
Officials in Andhra Pradesh say police commandos led a raid against a group of rebels meeting in a densely forested area Sunday .
The officials say a senior Maoist leader was among those killed in the clash , some 400 kilometers south of the state capital , Hyderabad .
Andhra Pradesh is one of several Indian states where the Maoists are active .
Thousands of people have been killed in the violence over the past two decades .
The rebels claim to be inspired by the teachings of Chinese revolutionary Mao Zedong .
They say they are fighting for the rights of India 's poor and landless farmers .
Economic activity is limited to providing services to the military and their families located in Dhekelia .
All food and manufactured goods must be imported .
Assimilating the visually impaired has always been difficult , with the United States often cited as an example of what can be done with the help of modern technology .
Now call centers in India are trying to do the same by using technology to employ the blind .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna has the story .
Afghanistan 's president wants international donors to redirect their financial contributions away from non-governmental organizations in his country , saying a lack of funding for the government is undermining reconstruction efforts .
President Hamid Karzai told Britain 's Financial Times Saturday that he will ask for another $ 4 billion to boost reconstruction efforts , when he addresses representatives at a donor conference in London Tuesday .
He said the Afghan people want a stronger government and civil service , and that goal can be met if donors give directly to the government .
The Afghan president acknowledged in the interview that the country is still struggling with problems including narcotics trafficking and corruption .
Mr. Karzai also addressed the insurgent violence plaguing his country , saying the acts are a sign of desperation .
Romanian voters go to the polls Sunday in presidential and parliamentary elections .
Opinion polls indicate Socialist Democrat Prime Minister Adrian Nastase and Bucharest mayor Traian Basescu - the nominee of the Justice and Truth alliance-head the list of 12 presidential candidates .
If no candidate wins a majority a runoff is scheduled for December 12 .
Candidates of the Socialist Democrats and Justice and Truth alliance are also in tight races for seats in the country 's parliament .
Sunday 's balloting comes as the Socialist Democrats fight new charges of corruption against the governing party .
Documents said to be transcripts of top-level meetings are reported to highlight abuses of power .
Prime Minister Nastase calls the documents fake .
Corruption is a major problem in Romania .
The government has been seeking to implement reforms in hopes of moving the country towards European Union membership in 2007 .
China 's state media report a sixth person in the country has been diagnosed with bird flu , while a new outbreak of the disease has been spotted in a flock of ducks .
The Xinhua news agency says the Health Ministry has identified the latest human victim as a 35-year-old man in Suichuan County in the eastern province of Jiangxi .
There were no further details .
Earlier , the Agriculture Ministry reported an outbreak in a flock of ducks , also in Jiangxi province .
It is not clear if the two incidents are linked .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 70 people in East Asia since 2003 .
Scientists fear it could mutate and be passed from human to human .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana says he has no information to confirm that the Central Intelligence Agency operated secret flights carrying terrorism suspects over Europe .
Mr. Solana made the comment Tuesday in testimony to a European Parliament committee investigating the claims .
He also told the panel that he had no authority to demand that EU member states hand over information about probes into the reported flights .
Last week , aviation data was presented to the committee showing the CIA conducted more than one thousand secret flights in Europe over the past five years .
The panel is also studying claims that the CIA used secret prisons in some eastern European countries .
The probe was sparked by news reports that said CIA agents had interrogated al-Qaida suspects at the prisons .
A group of elders from Burma 's Shan ethnic group has declared a Shan State independent from the military junta .
In a speech from an undisclosed location on Sunday , His Royal Highness Prince Surkhanpha , director of the Brussels-based Euro Burma Office , cited Burma 's 1947 constitution for the move .
That constitution was nullified by a military coup in 1962 and replaced by another constitution in 1974 .
Prince Surkhanpha 's declaration of independence was accompanied by a foreign policy statement that declared Shan State a war zone and warned foreigners to avoid the region .
The statement urged all Shan people living abroad to return home and serve their country , the Federated Shan States .
Reports circulating in the Burmese exile community say the prince 's declaration of independence has raised concern among many ethnic Shan living outside their homeland .
Pakistan 's military says it has destroyed a training camp for suicide bombers in the Swat Valley .
The army said in a statement that reports from intelligence sources and local residents led them to the location in northwest Pakistan .
They said six militants were killed in the operation and several others were wounded .
Pakistan 's government has been fighting a Taliban insurgency in the northwest .
Friday Britain pledged $ 1 billion in aid to help stabilize Pakistan 's violent border regions and to address the underlying causes of extremism .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown confirmed the pledge during a meeting in London with Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari .
A spokesman for Mr. Zardari , Farhatullah Babar , also called for better access to European Union markets to help boost Pakistan 's economy .
Witnesses in Somalia say Ethiopia is moving tanks and other reinforcements into the area where Somalia 's Islamists have been battling pro-government troops .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says dozens of people have been killed and at least 200 wounded during four days of fighting in southern Somalia .
The Islamists and the Ethiopian-backed government each claim to have killed hundreds of the other side 's troops U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the U.N. Security Council denounced the fighting in statements Friday .
They urged Somalia 's interim government and Islamists to resume peace talks .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice stressed the importance of bringing East African peacekeepers into Somalia during a meeting with Uganda 's foreign minister , Sam Kutesa , Friday .
Uganda is the only country so far to agree to take part in the force .
The United Nations has passed a resolution supporting the proposed force .
However , Somalia 's Islamists have denounced the measure and vowed to fight any foreign troops .
Islamist forces have seized much of southern and central Somalia since taking control of the capital , Mogadishu , in June .
This week 's fighting has taken place near the interim government 's headquarters in Baidoa .
Somalia 's government has little power outside the town .
Islamist leaders had threatened to attack Ethiopian troops this week if they did not leave Somali territory .
Ethiopia has an undetermined number of soldiers in Somalia to assist the interim government .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say they are investigating whether friendly fire killed an American and a Canadian soldier as they fought in a battle against Taleban rebels last week .
The fighting began last Wednesday when Taleban insurgents attacked a coalition military base in the southern province of Helmand .
It was one of the Taleban 's biggest assaults on coalition forces in months .
Five coalition troops also were wounded in the battle , including an American , three Canadians and one Afghan .
A coalition statement released today says a team of Americans , Canadians and Afghans will investigate the fighting , including whether any casualties resulted from friendly fire .
The U.S. military says coalition troops killed 32 Taleban insurgents in the battle .
The Internet is often referred to as the Information Superhighway .
But there are often shady characters loitering at every exit .
As technology grows at increasing speed , " cyber criminals " are keeping law enforcement agencies very busy , as VOA 's Robert Raffaele explains .
Russia 's security service says it has prevented major terrorist attacks after finding a truck packed with a ton of explosives , and a cache of poison .
A federal forces spokesman says authorities detained two men after stopping the truck near Grozny .
The Interfax news agency quotes him as saying the vehicle was fully prepared for an explosion .
All one needed was a suicide attacker to switch on a detonator .
The Federal Security Service also reports discovery of a cache of a cyanide-based substance in the North Caucasus that officials say was to be used for a chemical attack .
Security in Russia is extremely tight ahead of the arrival of world leaders for ceremonies Monday marking the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe .
Monday is also the first anniversary of the assassination of Kremlin-backed Chechen President Akhmad Kadyrov in Grozny .
Chinese authorities are offering generous rewards to anyone who provides information on security threats during the Olympic Games .
A report Friday by China 's state-run Xinhua news agency says individuals could receive as much as $ 73,000 for tips over the next several months , from July 10 to October 31 .
Beijing authorities say rewards would be paid for substantial information on terrorist attacks and groups planning to sabotage the games , such as , they say , the Falun Gong .
Rewards would also be paid for information regarding the deaths of individuals involved in the Olympics and foreigners .
The Chinese government announced this week that it has already broken up five alleged terrorist groups and arrested more than 80 people suspected of plotting to sabotage the Olympics .
China says terrorism is the biggest threat to the Olympic Games .
NATO officials in Afghanistan say insurgents have killed a coalition soldier in the southern part of the country .
A statement says the soldier was killed Sunday in Helmand province .
NATO did not provide details about the clash or give the soldier 's nationality .
The statement said that in another incident , a soldier and six Afghan troops were wounded when mortars hit their base in neighboring Kandahar province early Sunday .
On Saturday , the head of the U.S. Central Command , General John Abizaid , said Taleban insurgents are still using neighboring Pakistan as a base for infiltration .
But he completely rejected any suggestion that Islamabad is conspiring with the rebels .
General Abizaid made the remarks during a brief visit to the main U.S. military base at Bagram north of the Afghan capital , Kabul , to asses operations .
A Polish court has fined a magazine publisher $ 6,400 for insulting Pope John Paul .
The Warsaw court Tuesday found Jerzy Urban , who was a spokesman for Poland 's former communist government , guilty of violating a law that bans publicly insulting foreign heads of state .
He printed an article in the weekly magazine NIE making fun of the pope 's age and frailty shortly before the Polish-born pontiff 's August 2002 visit to his homeland .
The court 's decision brought expressions of concern from Europe 's top security organization that Poland is curtailing the freedom of the press .
A spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that increased protection for public officials is contrary to European law .
He then called on Polish authorities to introduce legislation decriminalizing libel and defamation .
Authorities in Guatemala say mudslides triggered by a series of torrential rains have killed at least 45 people and caused half a billion dollars in damage .
The death toll climbed Monday as Guatemalans held a national day of mourning to remember the dead , and President Alvaro Colom declared the situation a " national tragedy . "
Officials fear the death toll could go higher as rescuers search for additional victims .
At least 15 people are believed to be missing .
Tropical weather systems in both the Pacific and the Gulf of Mexico have left hillsides throughout Guatemala and southern Mexico saturated with water .
Heavy flooding in the Mexican Gulf Coast state of Tabasco also forced thousands of people from their homes .
Authorities in the states of Chiapas , Oaxaca and Veracruz reported serious flooding as well .
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan says Afghan and coalition forces are initiating most of the engagements on Islamic militants in the country 's restive south .
A U.S. military spokesman told a news conference in Kabul Wednesday the initiative is with the Afghan and foreign forces , not with the Taleban .
His remarks come as guerillas are stepping up attacks in the south before NATO-led troops take over control of security in the region next month .
Meanwhile the coalition forces say they killed five militants in Uruzgan province on Wednesday and 17 others in several other provinces since Sunday .
Also , a suspected suicide bomber was killed when the explosives strapped to his body detonated prematurely as he was trying to enter offices of a Turkish construction company in central Ghazni province .
The Dalai Lama says he is looking forward to giving up his political duties as head of the Tibetan exile movement some time next year .
A top aide on Tuesday confirmed the Buddhist spiritual leader 's plan , which he recently declared in a broadcast interview in India .
The Dalai Lama said he wants to discuss his intentions with the Tibetan parliament in exile , which convenes in March .
He said he has been in a state of semi-retirement since the movement first elected a political leader in 2001 .
The senior aide , Tenzin Taklha , stressed that the retirement would apply only to the Dalai Lama 's political role .
He said the Nobel Peace Prize laureate would continue to serve as a spiritual leader of the Tibetan people .
U.S. forecasters say Hurricane John has strengthened into a Category 3 storm as it churns off Mexico 's Pacific coast , with wind speeds of 185 kilometers per hour .
The storm is on a track that parallels the Mexican coast .
Forecasters warned Tuesday that the system could strengthen within 24 hours , triggering dangerous flash floods and mudslides over areas of mountainous terrain .
At mid afternoon local time , the storm was centered 280 kilometers south of the tourist resort of Acapulco .
A tropical storm warning is in effect from Lagunas de Chacahua westward to Lazaro Cardenas .
A tropical storm watch is posted from west of Lazaro Cardenas to Cabo Corrientes .
John is the sixth hurricane of this year 's Pacific season .
As America 's Hispanic population grows , music from Latin America has surged in popularity in the United States .
Musicians - particularly those from Mexico - have struck a cord with US audiences .
But artists from Latin America 's largest nation , Brazil , say they are finding it much harder to break into the US market than their counterparts from other countries .
Steve Mort reports for VOA from Rio de Janeiro .
The United States has claimed the final quarterfinal slot in the men 's Olympic ice hockey tournament at the Turin Games in Italy .
The U.S. team did not have to play Tuesday to advance because Kazakhstan defeated Latvia , 5-2 .
The Group-B result eliminated the slim chance for Latvia to overtake the United States at the end of first round play .
The Latvians needed to beat Kazakhstan and erase a huge 16-goal margin while hoping the United States would lose against Russia later in the day .
Switzerland rallied for a 3-3 tie with Italy to clinch second place in Group-A behind Finland .
All eight teams have been determined for the quarterfinal round beginning Wednesday .
But results from the final games will decide how the teams are paired in the next round .
Canada and the Czech Republic are the other teams advancing from Group-A .
The United States joins Slovakia , Russia and Sweden from Group-B .
Italy 's government says an Italian journalist kidnapped in Afghanistan several days ago is still alive .
A Foreign Ministry statement Saturday said officials have reason to believe missing journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo is alive , but it did not offer details .
Italian officials had previously demanded that the Taleban provide proof that Mastrogiacomo had not been killed before any negotiations could begin .
The Taleban says it captured Mastrogiacomo in Helmand province on Monday .
Insurgents say the reporter has confessed to being a spy .
The journalist 's newspaper , La Repubblica , has categorically denied the charge .
Earlier in the week , Italy 's lower house of parliament voted in favor of keeping the country 's military contingent in Afghanistan .
The lower house Thursday approved a measure that refinances the mission .
It now goes to the Senate for final approval .
The government has 1,800 troops in Afghanistan as part of a NATO force .
Authorities in Iraq say nine people have been shot and killed in the northeast town of Baquba .
The victims were boarding a minibus on their way to work Wednesday morning when they were gunned down .
The attack comes as authorities are dealing with a new wave of kidnappings in Iraq .
Four Western aid workers , including an American , a Briton and two Canadians , were abducted Saturday in Baghdad .
The four were seen in a videotape broadcast Tuesday by Arab broadcaster Al-Jazeera .
The video was made by an insurgent group calling itself the Swords of Righteousness Brigade .
Meanwhile , Germany has called for the release of a kidnapped national , archaeologist Susanne Osthoff , and her driver who disappeared Friday .
Officials believe the latest kidnappings are aimed at disrupting next month 's national parliamentary elections .
Russia has cited the importance of relations with the United States , but expressed some concern a day after President Bush criticized democracy in Russia .
Russia 's ambassador to the United States , Yuri Ushakov , says the two nations must make concerted efforts in the nuclear field , and also share goals in the energy sphere .
Writing in The Washington Post newspaper , Mr. Ushakov also said it is inadmissible to move in the direction of demonizing Russia .
He also said Russia has been troubled by some U.S. actions , particularly in Iraq , but respectfully presents its view , rather than try to undermine America 's image or interests .
In Brussels Monday , President Bush urged Russia to renew a commitment to democracy and the rule of law .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov described Mr. Bush 's comments as a call for a strategic partnership to fight terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction .
Italy has taken over control of the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Afghanistan for the next six months from a Turkish commander .
Italian Lieutenant-General Mauro Del Vechchio assumed command of the 8,000-strong International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) from Turkish Lieutenant-General Ethem Erdagi in Thursday ceremony in Kabul .
The commander of NATO forces in Northern Europe , General Gerhard Back , said ISAF will be ready to assume responsibility for security across all of Afghanistan by the end of next year .
ISAF already maintains security in Kabul and the country 's north and west .
It plans to increase its size and take over from the U.S.-led coalition in the volatile south early next year , before gradually moving into the east .
NATO peacekeepers will also provide security for the Afghan parliamentary elections scheduled for September 18 .
An Egyptian court has convicted a former Iranian diplomat and an Egyptian man of spying for Iran .
Iran 's foreign ministry spokesman called the verdict " ridiculous . "
The Iranian , Mohammed Reza Husseindoust , was sentenced in his absence to 25 years in prison .
The court ruled he tried to destablize Egypt and received information from the Egyptian defendant , Mahmoud Eid Dabous , about oil facilities at the Saudi port of Yanbu .
Several westerners were killed in May of 2004 in an attack on a petrochemical plant in Yanbu .
The attack was blamed on Islamist militants .
Dabous was sentenced to 10 years in prison on the espionage charge and another 25 years for plotting to assassinate Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
He denied the allegations and said his earlier confession was made under torture .
The World Health Organization says 22 people injured in the earthquake in Pakistan have died of tetanus infections in the past few days .
A spokeswoman for the organization said Thursday the situation appears to be stabilizing .
There have been 111 tetanus cases reported since the quake struck on October 8 , but just seven new cases in the past two days .
U.N. officials are warning that more quake survivors could perish in coming months unless they get food and shelter before winter .
On Wednesday , a U.N. official said international donors pledged an additional $ 580 million for earthquake relief efforts .
The death toll in Pakistan now stands at more than 54,000 people , and officials say rebuilding damaged areas will cost $ 5 billion .
Pakistani officials say they have killed two suspected Islamic militants and arrested another 12 in separate raids .
Police say they killed two foreign militants and arrested another 11 during a raid Saturday in a village in the remote North Waziristan region , which borders Afghanistan .
They say a shootout erupted after security forces surrounded the hideout of the suspected militants .
The Pakistani armed forces have launched several operations in recent years to flush out suspected al-Qaida and Taleban fighters they believe have taken refuge in remote border regions .
Earlier , police announced the arrest of Ramzan Mengal , a man they described as a senior member of the outlawed Sunni Muslim militant group , Lashkar-e-Jhangvi .
They said they arrested him Friday in the southwestern city of Quetta in connection with attacks on Shi'ite Muslims that have claimed more than 100 lives .
A top U.S. official has warned against Brazil imposing sanctions on the United States in a dispute over cotton subsidies .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick said in Brazil Thursday that there is always a danger in trade relations of things slipping out of control if one side decides to retaliate .
He said the United States is working to resolve the dispute .
Earlier , Brazil asked the World Trade Organization for permission to impose $ 1 billion in sanctions on U.S. goods for the United States failing to comply with a WTO decision that calls for steep cuts in subsidies for U.S. cotton producers .
The request is to be discussed at a WTO meeting later this month .
The WTO ruled in March the subsidies must be changed to comply with global trade rules .
Brazil says the subsidies artificially drive down world prices and hurt Brazilian producers .
The Philippines is again calling on its citizens to avoid traveling to Iraq for work .
Noting that two Filipinos were recently wounded during attacks on U.S. military bases in Iraq , a presidential spokesman said Tuesday that Manila has no plans to lift its ban on allowing Philippine workers into Iraq until there is peace and stability .
The Associated Press also reports that Philippine Foreign Undersecretary Jose Brillantes urged the estimated 6,000 Filipinos now working across the Middle East to take precautions against possible attacks in the region .
His comments follow Monday 's terror attack on the U.S. consulate in the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah , in which five non-American consulate workers were killed , including a Philippine national .
The U.S. secretary of agriculture says he has taken immediate action to ensure that future beef exports meet Japanese requirements .
Japan reimposed a complete ban on beef from the United States , after finding material it believes could transmit mad cow disease in a shipment that arrived Friday .
The country had resumed importing beef from the United States in December after months of negotiations .
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns says a team of inspectors will go to Japan to re-examine all beef from the U.S. Johanns says the plant that sent the shipment to Japan has been barred from future exporting , and that the inspector who passed the shipment will be disciplined .
A spokesman for the U.S. beef industry , J. Patrick Boyle , head of the American Meat Institute says the industry regrets the incident but continues to be confident in the safety of American beef .
Haiti 's electoral board has again postponed the country 's presidential and legislative elections , this time setting the poll for January 8 .
This is the fourth time the board has pushed back the poll to replace the country 's interim administration with an elected body .
The vote was originally scheduled for October 9 .
Election officials have attributed the postponements to poor organization and a lack of resources for the poll .
An official on the nine-member election council , Rosemond Pradel told the Associated Press the new delay is because the country is still not prepared for a vote .
But he insisted the new poll date is final .
Haiti 's constitution requires that a new government be in place by February 7 .
Afghanistan 's newly-elected President Hamid Karzai says he plans to abolish private militias , end the power of warlords and establish the rule of law .
He said private militias will not be tolerated at all , and former fighters who surrender their arms will be integrated into the national mainstream .
In an interview with CNN Television Tuesday , Mr. Karzai also said Afghanistan plans to do everything in its power to eliminate the poppy cultivation used to illegally produce heroin .
He said he would need the support of the international community to help farmers find alternative sources of income .
Mr. Karzai was echoing remarks he made last week after authorities confirmed his victory in the October 9 election , the first direct and democratic presidential poll in Afghanistan .
U.S. Senator John McCain has told Chinese officials they need to take a strong stand on North Korea in response to its rocket launch on Sunday .
McCain spoke to reporters in Beijing after meeting with top officials there , saying he urged the Chinese to support the international community in imposing sanctions on North Korea .
The U.S. and its allies in Asia have said the recent rocket launch was a test of a ballistic missile , but North Korea denies the claim , saying it sent a satellite into space .
China , along with Russia , has called for " restraint " in handling the situation .
McCain also criticized the six-nation talks aimed at disarming North Korea 's nuclear program , saying they had not been very productive .
McCain , along with two other U.S. Senators , is in East Asia on a tour that also includes Japan and Vietnam .
The United Nations is appealing for help for Niger , where it says floods have displaced nearly 200,000 people in recent weeks .
The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says shelter materials and blankets are urgently needed .
Food and mosquito netting are also in short supply .
The floods are compounding the misery in Niger , which was already experiencing a severe drought and food shortages before the rains hit .
The floods washed away the few crops and vegetable gardens that were starting to sprout .
A representative of the British-based charity Oxfam in Niger told VOA last week that people there are " extremely desperate . "
French police have arrested a key Syrian witness in a United Nations probe of the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Police say Muhammad al-Siddiq was arrested Sunday outside Paris , and is expected to be extradited to Beirut in the near future .
Lebanese media reports say Mr. al-Siddiq has claimed to have participated in a meeting of Lebanese security officials who allegedly designed the assassination plan .
Syrian officials claim he is unreliable .
A report from the U.N.-appointed prosecutor probing the assassination is expected to implicate Syrian officials in the February 14 bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and 20 others in Beirut .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says he will wait to read a report due next week from prosecutor Detlev Mehlis before deciding whether to extend the probe to December , as requested last week by Lebanese lawmakers .
The leader of Sudan 's main southern rebel group has called on the government to apply a recently signed north-south peace deal to the separate conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
John Garang said Saturday that the Darfur crisis can only be solved through dialogue .
He spoke on the sidelines of a federalism conference in Brussels
Mr. Garang 's Sudan People 's Liberation Army ( SPLA ) signed a peace agreement with the government in January .
The deal gives the south greater autonomy and the opportunity to vote on secession in six years .
Mr. Garang said he is sending about 70 SPLA representatives to the capital , Khartoum , in the first phase of implementing the peace deal .
A Hart hotly pursued by the hounds fled for refuge into an ox-stall , and buried itself in a truss of hay , leaving nothing to be seen but the tips of his horns .
Soon after the Hunters came up and asked if any one had seen the Hart .
The stable boys , who had been resting after their dinner , looked round , but could see nothing , and the Hunters went away .
Shortly afterwards the master came in , and looking round , saw that something unusual had taken place .
He pointed to the truss of hay and said : " What are those two curious things sticking out of the hay ? "
And when the stable boys came to look they discovered the Hart , and soon made an end of him .
He thus learnt that
Nothing escapes the master 's eye .
The U.S. women 's soccer ( football ) team has defeated Sweden , 1-0 , in an Olympic prep match in Skelleftea , Sweden .
Carli Lloyd of the United States scored with a deflected shot in the 29th minute .
Lloyd dribbled past three defenders and fired a low , left-footed shot that ricocheted past the Swedish goal keeper .
The win was the second in four days for the U.S. women , who also beat Norway , 4-0 , July 2 .
The win improved the Americans ' record against the Swedes to 16 wins in 25 matches .
The match also was the first for Pia Sundhage as coach of the United States against her native country .
She played for Sweden in two World Cups and one Olympics .
The U.S. women next play Brazil July 13 .
Japan 's parliament has ratified a free trade agreement with Mexico .
The accord , which was signed last September by Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and Mexican President Vicente Fox , must still be ratified by Mexico 's legislature .
The trade accord promises to widen Japanese export opportunities in Mexico and the United States , and aims to reduce Mexican dependence on the United States for export sales .
About 90 percent of Mexico 's exports go to the United States .
Iraq 's electoral commission has certified the results of the country 's January 30 elections and has allocated 140 seats to the main Shi'ite coalition , giving it a majority in the new parliament .
As expected , the United Iraqi Alliance was the big winner , sweeping 140 of the 275 seats in the interim National Assembly .
Kurdish parties ran a distant second , taking 75 seats .
Interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi 's secular Shi'ite party was third , taking 40 seats .
Eight million Iraqis voted , but the country 's Sunnis mostly boycotted the election .
The United Nation 's top official for the Iraq elections , Carlos Valenzuela , said in Baghdad Thursday that he hopes those who did not participate in the elections will join the political process in the next step of the transition .
The National Assembly will be in power for 10 months and will draft a new constitution .
A Bosnian Serb officer indicted for his role in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre is flying to the Netherlands to surrender to the Hague war crimes tribunal .
Colonel Vujadin Popovic left Belgrade Thursday to face such charges as genocide and crimes against humanity .
The charges focus on his role in the deaths of about eight thousand Muslim men and boys after Serb forces in Bosnia-Herzegovina captured the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica in 1995 .
Meanwhile , the tribunal ordered the release , pending trial , of former Serbian President Milan Milutinovic , former Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister Nikola Sainovic , General Dragoljub Ojdanic and General Vladimir Lazarevic .
All four have been indicted in connection with repression against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo .
However , the court stayed the release of all but General Lazarevic to give prosecutors time to appeal the order .
Swiss police say a container of swine flu virus samples packed in dry ice burst late Monday as it was being shipped on a Swiss train from Zurich to Geneva .
Authorities attribute the accident to bad packaging and say it posed no threat to humans .
Police said the container held vials of a strain of swine flu virus different from the H1N1 variety responsible for a worldwide alert and for the deaths of about 150 people in Mexico .
The material was being transferred to Geneva as part of Swiss efforts to develop an effective test for detecting swine flu in humans .
Reuters news agency says police stopped the train ahead of its arrival in Lausanne .
Authorities report one person injured in the incident .
New fighting in Somalia 's capital has killed at least three people and wounded at least 20 others .
A local journalist tells VOA 's Somali service that government forces attacked Islamist insurgents in parts of Mogadishu early Thursday .
The fighting was centered in the Bakara market , a longtime insurgent stronghold , and the city 's Howlwadaag District .
Government forces are reported to have captured an insurgent base in Howlwadaag .
The Somali government controls only small parts of Mogadishu after more than three years of fighting with Islamist militants .
The groups al-Shabab and Hizbul Islam are trying to topple the government and turn Somalia into a strict Islamic state .
British military authorities say Prince Harry , the third in line to Britain 's throne , will be deployed to Iraq with his military unit .
A Defense Ministry announcement says the prince , a second lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment , will begin service in Iraq in the next few months as part of a British troop rotation .
The prince will become the latest member of Britain 's royal family to see front-line action since his uncle , Prince Andrew the Duke of York , served as a helicopter pilot during the 1982 Falklands War .
Prince Harry , formally known as Troop Commander Wales , has trained to lead 11 soldiers and four Scimitar tanks .
After graduating from Britain 's Sandhurst Military Academy last year , the prince has repeatedly expressed his wish to accompany his regiment to Iraq .
A published report says all 425 domestic U.S. military bases are under review as the Defense Department considers a new round of base closures .
The New York Times reported Sunday that after more than two years of study , Pentagon analysts are putting the final touches on a list of recommendations to submit to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld .
In previous rounds , the Pentagon eliminated 97 bases and closed hundreds of smaller facilities , saving tens of billions of dollars .
Military officials say the old Cold War network of defense facilities still has too much capacity for modern needs .
Mr. Rumsfeld is to give his list of proposed base closings to an independent commission for review in May .
The newspaper reported that by early November , President Bush and Congress must accept or reject a final list submitted by the commission .
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan says at least 25 Taleban rebels have been killed during a joint military operation with Afghan troops in the south of the country .
A statement released by the coalition Friday says the clash happened Thursday in Helmand province .
Also Thursday , three NATO soldiers from Canada were killed in an attack by Taleban insurgents in southern Kandahar province .
In a separate incident in the same province , a suicide attacker drove a bomb-laden car into a crowded market , killing at least 21 people and wounding 13 others .
Local officials say the suicide bomber was apparently targeting the NATO-led International Security Assistance Forces , but the casualties were all civilians .
NATO took over security operations from U.S.-led coalition forces this week in six southern Afghan provinces .
Iraqi officials say a powerful car bomb ripped through a busy Baghdad street Wednesday , killing at least 35 people and wounding more than 70 .
Authorities say the parked car exploded near several restaurants in the mainly Shi'ite neighborhood of Shula , in the capital 's northwest .
Witnesses say many of the victims were dining at the restaurants and shopping at nearby stores when the attack took place .
Women and children were reported to be among those killed .
The blast was the biggest bombing in Iraq since April 29th , when more than 50 people were killed in bombings in Shi'ite districts in Baghdad .
April was a deadly month in Iraq , with 355 Iraqis reported killed in attacks .
Kuwait has reported two cases of bird flu - the first report of the virus in the Persian Gulf region .
The head of the Public Agricultural Authority Sheikh Fahd Salem al-Sabah said Thursday the cases were discovered in two birds and that at least one was a migrating fowl .
It is not clear if the birds were carrying the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Meanwhile , China has reported two new outbreaks of bird flu among poultry in the northeastern province of Liaoning , bringing the total number of reported outbreaks in the country over the past month to six .
Wednesday in Geneva , the World Bank said it plans to provide $ 1 billion to pandemic programs , while the World Organization for Animal Health and the Food and Agricultural Organization said another $ 500 million will be needed to fight the disease in animals .
For more than 20 years , researchers have gone hunting with sharks and stalking prey with tigers from in front of their television monitors .
National Geographic researchers have an ' animal eye view ' of the world through a video camera built to be attached to living things .
" Crittercam , " as they call it , has been mounted to animals of over 40 different species .
Its creator recently sat down with VOA 's Paul Sisco .
The people who say they would rather push a Ford than drive a Chevy usually do .
The Obama administration is to announce Tuesday a new plan for the detention of illegal immigrants awaiting deportation .
Under the new guidelines , the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency will devise a system to determine which immigrants should be imprisoned and which should be housed in less restrictive facilities .
Under the current system , violent and non-violent illegal immigrants are being held in a makeshift network of local , state and federal jails .
Nearly 400,000 people are held in this system each year , at a cost of about $ 2 billion .
The new proposals would house non-violent immigrants such as women and children in former hotels , nursing homes and other sites .
The Obama administration is also considering building two new detention centers .
Immigrant advocacy groups say many detainees have been denied access to basic medical care and other services under the current system .
The king of Swaziland has postponed national events to mark World AIDS Day , citing a conflict with a traditional royal ceremony .
Officials with King Mswati 's government say they did not want the events to compete with the incwala ceremony , which they announced will begin Thursday .
The Swazi Observer news agency quotes a government health official , Nhlanhla Nhlabatsi as saying events to mark World AIDS Day will now be held at the beginning of February .
But a group of non-governmental organizations fighting AIDS is defying the king 's order and will hold its scheduled dinner in Swaziland 's capital , Mbabane .
The United Nations says up to 40 percent of adults in the tiny southern Africa kingdom are infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
King Mswati has drawn criticism for his lavish lifestyle and multiple wives at a time of widespread suffering .
Afghan authorities have ordered the slaughter of birds in areas where two cases of bird flu have been found .
The U.N. 's Food and Agriculture Organization said Wednesday birds carrying the virus have been reported in the eastern provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar .
Officials suspect the cases are the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu but do not yet have confirmation .
Last year , Afghanistan discovered cases of the H5N1 virus in birds , but not humans .
The deadly strain of the bird flu virus has killed at least 160 people worldwide since 2003 .
The United States will decide in the coming weeks whether to take the North Korea nuclear issue to the United Nations , where sanctions could be imposed .
A senior U.S. defense official said Sunday that Washington is considering taking the matter to the world body because U.S. officials do not see any effort on the part of Pyongyang to cooperate .
The official , speaking on the sidelines of a security conference in Singapore , described the North 's statements on the nuclear issue as " a downward spiral of threats . "
The senior U.S. defense official made the comments to reporters on condition of anonymity .
South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun will meet President Bush in Washington on Friday for talks on the nuclear issue .
Pyongyang has threatened that any U.N. sanctions would be considered a declaration of war .
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man , and entreated Venus to change her into the form of a woman .
Venus consented to her request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel , so that the youth saw her and loved her , and took her home as his bride .
While the two were reclining in their chamber , Venus wishing to discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her habits of life , let down a mouse in the middle of the room .
The Cat , quite forgetting her present condition , started up from the couch and pursued the mouse , wishing to eat it .
Venus was much disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape .
Nature exceeds nurture .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney has criticized Senate Democrats who have accused the Bush administration of purposely misleading the American public on intelligence leading up to the war in Iraq .
In a speech near Washington Wednesday , Mr. Cheney called allegations the White House manipulated intelligence to make the case for war " reprehensible . "
He said lawmakers had the same access to intelligence regarding Saddam Hussein 's weapons ' programs and many arrived at the same conclusion to go to war .
In a statement released after Mr. Cheney 's speech , Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid ( of Nevada ) accused the Bush administration of playing politics with the war in Iraq .
He urged the White House to stop " lashing out " at its critics and instead give American troops a strategy for success in Iraq .
Israeli forces have begun handing over the town of Jericho to Palestinian security control - the first of five West Bank towns Israel has pledged to turn over .
Israeli and Palestinian security commanders met at a checkpoint just outside Jericho for Wednesday 's ceremonial handover .
After the ceremony , Israeli troops began turning over several other checkpoints around the town to Palestinian security forces .
In the coming days , Israel is to hand over the town of Tulkarem and , after that , Qalqiliya .
But no timetable has yet been set for Ramallah and Bethlehem .
Meanwhile , in Cairo , Egyptian and Palestinian officials and Palestinian militant leaders are discussing a proposal for a one-year stop to Palestinian attacks on Israeli targets .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says Palestinians must dismantle the militant groups in addition to agreeing to a cease-fire .
Iranian police have detained a controversial Shi'ite cleric after clashing with his supporters outside his Tehran home .
Security officials Sunday said the demonstration 's leaders and Ayatollah Mohammad Kazemeini Boroujerdi were arrested .
A crowd of about 200 people had gathered around Boroujerdi 's house to call for the release of the cleric 's jailed followers .
They chanted religious slogans , and carried signs , including one saying they were ready to die to defend traditional religion .
Iranian officials said some of the protesters were armed with knives and acid .
Boroujerdi has previously been arrested for advocating the separation of religion and politics in the Islamic state .
The cleric says he has written letters to international leaders including Pope Benedict asking for support .
Iran has an elected president and parliament , but Islamic clerics select the nation 's supreme leader .
Kenya 's justice minister says the government will start freezing the assets of those suspected of profiting from corruption .
Martha Karua told reporters Wednesday that the assets include well-known buildings in Nairobi she said were built with looted government funds .
Karua did not name any targeted officials , but said her office is accelerating action on all corruption cases , including the so-called Anglo Leasing and Goldenberg scandals .
Kenya 's former ministers of finance , energy and education all resigned recently after being linked to the multi-million dollar scandals .
The officials have denied any wrongdoing .
On Wednesday , Kenya 's Anti-Corruption Commission interviewed former Transport Minister Chris Murungaru , who has been ordered to account for his wealth .
Murungaru told reporters he will not comply with the order , and said the commission should present any evidence it has showing that he committed a crime .
Zoo officials in San Diego , California , say a giant panda was born at the San Diego Zoo on Tuesday , making it one of only about 10 giant pandas in the United States .
The officials say the mother , a 13-year-old giant panda pregnant with twins , gave birth to one cub , but the other died in the womb .
It is the second panda birth in less than a month at a U.S. zoo .
The first was born three weeks ago at Washington 's National Zoo .
On Tuesday , veterinarians determined that cub is male .
The cub 's parents are being loaned by China under a 10-year agreement .
Giant pandas are endangered with a total population of 1,600 , both in captivity and in the wild .
U.S. President-elect Barack Obama is urging Congress to move quickly on a plan to deal with the financial crisis in the country and help struggling families .
In Saturday 's Democratic weekly radio address , Mr. Obama said if Congress does not immediately pass an economic rescue plan , he will make it his first order of business as president .
He said the rescue package should create jobs , relieve financial pressure on families and revive the economy .
Mr. Obama expressed optimism that , with new policies and a spirit of service and sacrifice , the country can steer itself out of economic turmoil .
He praised world leaders for coming to Washington to seek a solution to the global financial crisis , saying the matter requires a " coordinated global response . "
On Friday , Mr. Obama announced a delegation is taking part in G-20 summit on his behalf .
The outgoing Palestinian parliament has given Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas new powers just days before the Islamic militant group Hamas comes to power .
The parliament , which is dominated by Mr. Abbas ' Fatah party , passed an amendment Monday allowing him to name judges to a court that can veto laws passed by the legislature .
Hamas leaders called the measure " illegitimate " and vowed to overturn it when the group takes over the legislature Saturday .
Spokesmen for Hamas also say it has settled on a prime minister who belongs to the militant group .
Earlier , Hamas said it preferred an independent for the post .
The group says it hopes Fatah will join a new Palestinian government , but Fatah has said it will refuse .
Bangladesh and India have begun two days of talks in Dhaka on sharing water resources .
Bangladeshi officials say the talks , led by the secretaries of each country 's water resources ministries , will focus on sharing waters from the Teesta and six other common rivers .
They say the two sides will also discuss India 's controversial river-linking project aimed at diverting surplus water from rivers in its flood-prone northeast to dry western and southern parts of the country .
Opponents believe the project would cause rivers in Bangladesh to dry up , affecting the country 's ecology and farming .
Bangladesh and India have 54 common rivers but have an agreement , signed in 1996 , only to share water resources from the Ganges River .
The main political rival to Afghanistan 's President Hamid Karzai has formed a new national-level political party called New Afghanistan .
Yunus Qanuni told reporters in Kabul his party will take part in the upcoming parliamentary elections in April .
He also said he will support any positive steps taken by the newly-formed Karzai government , but oppose it when it is wrong .
Mr. Karzai told reporters Friday that he has urged Mr. Qanuni to form a national party .
He said he does not want parties in his country to become ethnic or provincial .
Mr. Qanuni said Mr. Karzai offered to make him defense minister , but he declined because that would have limited his political role .
Mr. Qanuni lost to Mr. Karzai in the country 's first democratic presidential election in October .
Israel has re-opened a key border crossing in the northern Gaza Strip , and says it will allow 1,000 Palestinian workers and hundreds of Gaza merchants to enter
Israel on Thursday .
Wednesday 's announcement comes a day after an Israeli-Palestinian summit , where Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas declared an end to militant attacks on Israelis .
Israel , in turn , promised to stop killing Palestinians anywhere .
The Erez crossing was closed last month after militants killed six Israeli civilians in northern Gaza . Meanwhile , Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom says he is launching a campaign to organize a national referendum on Israel 's Gaza withdrawal plan .
The move places Mr. Shalom at odds with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who says he wants to expedite the pullback and insists a referendum is unnecessary .
Interior Minister Ophir Pines called the referendum push a move by withdrawal opponents to sabotage the plan .
The government of Venezuela has offered to send humanitarian aid and fuel to the United States in the wake of the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
The Foreign Ministry issued a statement Wednesday , saying Venezuela is ready to send a humanitarian aid task force to assist in relief efforts , if requested by the United States .
Venezuela 's Citgo Petroleum Corporation also pledged $ 1 million towards relief efforts .
Citgo says the funds will be directed to appropriate relief organizations in the affected areas .
Venezuela is the world 's fifth largest oil exporter and a major supplier to the United States , although relations have been tense between the two countries .
Islamist rebels have attacked African Union peacekeepers for a second straight day in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , wounding at least one soldier .
An AU spokesman says the soldier was hurt Monday when a roadside bomb exploded near an AU vehicle .
On Sunday , another roadside bomb wounded two newly arrived AU peacekeepers from Burundi .
Approximately two-thousand troops from Burundi and Uganda make up the AU peacekeeping mission , known as AMISOM .
The force has been guarding key sites in Mogadishu as Somalia 's Ethiopian-backed government fights the Islamist insurgency .
The insurgency began in early 2007 , soon after Ethiopian forces helped the government oust an Islamist movement from power in Mogadishu and other Somali cities .
Thai Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont is blaming a series of deadly bombings in Bangkok on groups opposed to the military coup that put him in power .
Mr. Surayud said Monday intelligence agencies believe the New Year 's Eve blasts were carried out by people who lost power following September 's military takeover .
Nine bombs ripped through the capital Sunday and early Monday , killing three people and wounding at least 38 others .
Mr. Surayud did not name deposed prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra or his allies as possible culprits .
He also downplayed the likelihood that an Islamist insurgency in the south has crept northward .
Some 1,800 people have been killed in near-daily bombings in three southern provinces .
More than 20,000 people have rallied in Pakistan 's largest city , Karachi , to protest cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
Shouting anti-American and anti-European slogans , the demonstrators marched through the city on Sunday to denounce the cartoons , first published in Denmark .
Earlier , in the eastern city of Lahore , police fired teargas to put a stop to a rally organized by the six-party Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal alliance .
Police arrested the head of the alliance , Qazi Hussain Ahmed , and dozens of others including cricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan .
Protests have been banned in Lahore , where two people died in earlier unrest .
Radical Islamic leaders said they would defy the ban and stage more protests .
Demonstrations have been scheduled for Friday , the day before President Bush is due to visit Islamabad on his South Asia trip .
Russia 's nuclear power chief says his country plans to start up the Bushehr nuclear reactor in Iran this year .
Sergei Kiriyenko told Russian media Thursday that assuming nothing unexpected happens , the launch will go as planned before the end of 2009 .
He said there are no unresolved questions with his Iranian counterparts regarding the technical start-up .
Kiriyenko said he plans to travel to the Bushehr construction site later this month .
Russia began working on the project in 1995 , and says it has already delivered the fuel to get Iran 's first nuclear power plant running .
The plant 's opening has frequently been delayed .
In the past , Iranian officials have blamed the delays , in part , on foreign sanctions related to its disputed nuclear program .
Officials say Bushehr will be capable of producing about 1,000 megawatts of electricity a year .
Air France says its flight schedule is returning to normal Tuesday after flight staff called off their five-day strike over pay and working conditions .
Air France says it plans to operate all long-haul flights from Paris and 90 percent of its short and medium-haul routes .
Labor unions representing cabin crews voted Monday to end the walkout .
Air France flight attendants began the work stoppage last Thursday on the eve of French school holidays .
Hundreds of flights were canceled , stranding thousands of travelers .
Air France chief executive Jean-Cyril Spinetta has offered to hold immediate negotiations with the labor unions to avert further strike action .
The Lebanese army continues to shell Islamic militants holed up in a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
Fighters are ignoring messages broadcast by the army over loudspeakers in the Nahr el-Bared camp , calling for them to surrender .
In addition , occasional gunfire and explosions can be heard .
Nearly all the refugees have fled the camp , located near Tripoli , in the two months since the standoff began .
More than 200 people have been killed since fighting erupted between Lebanon 's army and the Fatah al-Islam militants at the camp May 20 .
The dead include more than 100 soldiers and at least 60 militants .
The conflict at the refugee camp is the worst internal violence in Lebanon since the 1975-to-1990 civil war .
Police in southwestern Afghanistan say suspected Taleban militants Saturday attacked a mine-clearing team , killing seven people .
Authorities in western Farah province say gunmen ambushed the team as they traveled from southern Kandahar to the western province of Herat .
Police say a total of six security guards and de-miners who worked for a U.S.-based mine clearing company ( RONCO ) and an Afghan woman were killed .
Four other people were wounded in the shootout .
Taleban militants are waging a bloody insurgency in Afghanistan .
On Friday , Afghan President Hamid Karzai disclosed his government has held direct talks with Taleban militants .
At a news conference in Kabul , Mr. Karzai said the talks have been going on for some time .
Taleban representatives later denied the president 's claim .
Turkish media say police have thwarted a bomb attack in Istanbul by arresting a man carrying a bag filled with explosives .
Turkish news agencies say the man was detained Monday in central Istanbul 's Sisli district .
They say his bag contained three and a half kilograms of plastic explosives .
The reports say police later arrested at least one other suspect .
There was no word on the intended target or identity of the suspected bomber .
Turkish militants affiliated to Kurdish , leftist and Islamist groups have carried out bombings in major Turkish cities and resort towns in the past .
In May , a member of a militant leftist group blew himself up in Istanbul , killing six people and wounding many others .
The U.S. House of Representatives voted Friday to cut off aid to Saudi Arabia , accusing the close ally of religious intolerance and funding terrorist organizations .
The ban is contained in an amendment slipped into a foreign aid funding bill for next year that has not yet been debated in the Senate .
Congress has passed bills in the past to stop the relatively small amount of U.S. aid to Saudi Arabia .
But the Bush administration has found a way around the restrictions .
The main backer of the amendment , Democratic Party representative Anthony Weiner from New York State , says cutting off aid sends " a clear message to the Saudi Arabian government that they must be a true ally in advancing peace in the Middle East . "
The Saudi Embassy in Washington has not commented on the proposed legislation .
Congressional officials say the United States provided $ 2.5 million to Riyadh in 2005 and 2006 .
A Democratic Congressman has called on young Americans to oppose President Bush 's plan to change the national retirement system , Social Security .
In the Democratic Party 's weekly radio address Saturday , House member Kendrick Meek of Florida said the changes would harm the middle-class , increase the deficit , and cut benefits for most workers .
He says today 's young Americans will be hurt the most as they reach retirement age .
He says the president 's plan would force the country to borrow trillions of dollars from foreign nations .
Cong. Meek says the private accounts the president has been promoting would be hit with what he called " a large privatization tax . "
President Bush says those accounts would earn a higher rate of return .
Mr. Bush recently wrapped up a nationwide tour promoting his plans for Social Security .
He called the changes needed to secure the system for future generations .
British teenager Andy Murray has won his first tennis match under new coach Brad Gilbert , firing 13 aces to defeat Ramon Delgado of Paraguay , 6-4 , 6-3 , at the Legg Mason Tennis Classic in Washington .
The 19-year-old player from Scotland won 26 of 37 first-serve points Wednesday to reach the third round of the hardcourt event .
His match lasted just 88 minutes in sweltering 37-degree Celsius heat .
Murray will play again Thursday against either Spaniard Feliciano Lopez or Russian Teimuraz Gabashvili for a place in the quarterfinal round .
Russian seventh seed Dmitry Tursunov advanced when Edgardo Massa of Argentina retired with a right shoulder injury with the match even at 6-3 , 1-6 , 3-3 .
Denis Gremelmayr ousted fellow German Bjorn Phau , 6-4 , 6-3 .
Israeli warplanes have launched strikes in the northern Gaza Strip .
Palestinian witnesses say at least one Israeli missile struck a military compound , about 100 meters from the offices of Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas .
The president was elsewhere when the attack occurred .
Palestinian sources say two guards were wounded when a rocket landed in the compound near a helicopter pad used by Mr. Abbas .
Israel says the strikes targeted opened areas used by Palestinian militants to fire rockets into southern Israel .
Militants fired at least nine rockets into Israel Tuesday , including one that Israel says landed dangerously close to a huge fuel storage facility near the port city of Ashkelon .
Iraqi officials say near-simultaneous blasts in Baghdad have killed at least 22 people and wounded 25 others in central Baghdad .
Officials say the two attacks occurred near a cafe Thursday afternoon .
Meanwhile , Muslim groups and the family of kidnapped American journalist Jill Carroll continue to appeal for her release .
Iraqi officials said they have asked the U.S. military to release six of eight Iraqi women in detention , but they say it is not related to the demands of Carroll 's kidnappers .
Reuters news agency quotes a Pentagon spokesman as saying officials do not expect to resolve the detained women 's status in the near future .
Also Thursday , an international team of election experts said it found only minor election violations in Iraq 's December poll .
Iraq 's election commission is expected to issue final poll results in the next week .
Iraqi police say a car bomb in central Baghdad has killed at least 21 people and wounded 66 others .
The blast damaged the Abdel Qadir Gilani Mosque , one of Baghdad 's most revered Sunni shrines .
The explosion also damaged several buildings and cars in the Sinak area of the capital .
Another car bomb killed at least two people Monday in Baghdad 's Bab al-Muadham area .
In Iraq Sunday , U.S. military troops rescued 42 Iraqis from an al-Qaida prison camp north of Baghdad .
Military officials say some of the freed captives showed signs of torture and mistreatment .
Iran has warned the United States not to attack its nuclear facilities .
At a news briefing Sunday , Iran 's foreign ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi warned Washington " not to play with fire " by repeatedly threatening Tehran .
The spokesman also rejected a European proposal aimed at restricting Tehran 's development of nuclear fuel .
Meanwhile , a U.S. newspaper , The Washington Post , report says the United States has been flying unmanned surveillance drones over Iran for almost a year to search for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and detect weaknesses in air defenses .
In another development , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says relying on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is not enough to prevent what he calls a " cascade " of countries acquiring nuclear weapons .
Mr. Annan urges new joint action , including tougher inspection rules .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says a power vacuum is emerging in Iraq and that his government is ready to fill the gap with the help of neighboring states .
Speaking Tuesday in Tehran , Mr. Ahmadinejad attributed the developing vacuum to what he called the rapidly declining political power of " the occupiers , " an apparent reference to the United States .
He did not elaborate on how Iran could fill such a power gap .
Washington accuses Tehran of fueling violence in Iraq by training and supplying weapons to Shi'ite insurgents .
Iran denies the charge and says it is doing its best to stabilize its neighbor .
Mr. Ahmadinejad also said he sees " no possibility " of a U.S. attack on Iran .
The United States has accused Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon , but says it favors diplomacy in ending the crisis .
Iran denies seeking atomic weapons and says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes .
President Bush is in Russia for talks with President Vladimir Putin , ahead of the Group of Eight economic summit .
Mr. Bush and his wife Laura arrived in St. Petersburg Friday morning from Germany .
In his talks with the President Putin , Mr. Bush has said he will discuss concerns about press freedom and democracy in Russia , but will not scold the Russian leader .
The two leaders are also expected to discuss the nuclear crises in Iran and North Korea , and the escalating fighting in the Middle East .
The G-8 summit gets under way in St. Petersburg Saturday .
The two leaders are meeting as U.S. and Russian negotiators work to conclude a deal that would let the former communist state join the World Trade Organization .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said she will not serve a full eight years in her position if President Barack Obama is elected to a second term .
In a nationally televised interview with PBS television 's Tavis Smiley Wednesday , Clinton she could not imagine serving a full eight years .
She told her interviewer that , considering the demands of the job , she would find that extremely challenging .
Clinton - who had been a candidate for president in 2008 - also ruled out a second presidential run .
She had said previously she would also not seek re-election to the New York Senate seat she held until 2009 when she took her current position .
She indicated she would like to return to private life Clinton had been first lady of the United States while her husband , Bill Clinton served as U.S. President from 1992 to 2000 .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has called on major economies to ensure trade and energy stability in order to promote a balanced world economy .
Mr. Hu spoke Saturday in Beijing , where he opened the start of a two-day meeting of top finance officials from 20 countries .
He urged countries to create a " sound trading environment for economic growth . "
He also said major powers should make concerted efforts to stabilize the global energy market .
The so-called Group of 20 is made up of larger developing countries and rich nations , including the United States .
The meeting is being held at a time of trade tensions between Beijing and Washington .
Some critics accuse China of manipulating its currency to give Chinese exports an unfair price advantage on world markets .
Iran says it is investigating Afghan troops who shot at Iranian forces after crossing over the border .
Iran 's ISNA news agency says Iranian border guards encountered the Afghan troops traveling by car , armed with rifles and a grenade launcher .
Border police commander Hossein Zolfaghari said the six officers and one soldier were detained , and told officials they were looking for Taliban militants and crossed into Iran by accident .
Zolfaghari did not say when the arrests took place .
Both Afghanistan and Iran have been battling insurgents and smugglers along their joint border .
Earlier this month , Afghan officials said they seized at least 19 tons of explosives found in shipping containers imported from Iran .
Afghanistan has previously accused Iran of selling weapons to the Taliban , allegations Tehran denies .
CIA Director Porter Goss ' choice for the post of executive director of the intelligence agency has declined the appointment after accounts were published about his resignation from the CIA two decades ago .
Michael Kostiw said Monday he will still serve as a senior advisor to Mr. Goss , but feared the reports of his past indiscretion would " be a distraction from the critical work " of the agency .
As executive director , Mr. Kostiw would have been the agency 's day-to-day manager , overseeing budgetary and personnel decisions .
The Washington Post reported Sunday the former House of Representatives Intelligence Committee 's staff director for terrorism resigned from the CIA in 1982 after being put on leave for shoplifting .
The paper reported that , in exchange for his quitting , the agency arranged for charges to be dropped and his police record to be cleared .
Economic activity is limited to commercial fishing .
The proximity to nearby oil- and gas-producing sedimentary basins suggests the potential for oil and gas deposits , but the region is largely unexplored .
There are no reliable estimates of potential reserves .
Commercial exploitation has yet to be developed .
A powerful typhoon is approaching a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean south of Tokyo , and officials are warning of heavy rains , strong winds and high waves in the region .
Typhoon Saola 's winds are blowing at more than 140 kilometers per hour .
The storm was just off Hachijo Island , 300 kilometers south of Tokyo , Saturday afternoon , and heading north .
Japan 's Meteorological Agency says heavy rains will hit Tokyo later Saturday and Sunday as the typhoon passes just east of the city .
On average , two to three typhoons hit Japan 's main islands each year .
Typhoon Nabi , which ripped through western Japan earlier this month , killed more than 20 people .
The World Bank has canceled more than seven million dollars in aid to Cambodia after finding evidence of fraud and corruption in three development projects .
In a statement released Sunday , the bank said the three suspended projects involved land management , infrastructure and water and sanitation projects .
The World Bank said it would provide further details of its findings later this week , but could not do so now because it would jeopardize confidential communications from Cambodia .
Corruption is endemic in Cambodia , a country impoverished after decades of conflict .
There was no immediate response from the Cambodian government to the bank 's statement .
The U.S.-led military coalition in Afghanistan says a car bomb has seriously wounded two coalition soldiers in the southern city of Kandahar .
A coalition spokeswoman says a bomb was detonated by remote control inside a vehicle near a coalition patrol Monday .
She says the wounded soldiers were taken to a medical facility for treatment .
At least eight people , including two Canadian soldiers , were killed in a double suicide bombing in the same area Saturday .
A purported Taleban spokesman ( Yousuf Ahmadi ) claimed responsibility for those attacks .
Meanwhile , police said Monday a man traveling in a taxi detonated a grenade at a border checkpoint in Khost province Sunday , killing himself and another person .
Three others were wounded .
The man set off the grenades after police stopped the taxi .
The Tajik people came under Russian rule in the 1860s and 1870s , but Russia 's hold on Central Asia weakened following the Revolution of 1917 .
Bolshevik control of the area was fiercely contested and not fully reestablished until 1925 .
Much of present-day Sughd province was transferred from the Uzbek SSR to the newly formed Tajik SSR in 1929 .
Ethnic Uzbeks form a substantial minority in Tajikistan .
Tajikistan became independent in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union , and experienced a civil war between regional factions from 1992 - 97 .
Tajikistan experienced several security incidents in 2010 , including a mass prison-break from a Dushanbe detention facility , the country 's first suicide car bombing in Khujand , and armed conflict between government forces and opposition militants in the Rasht Valley .
The country remains the poorest in the former Soviet sphere .
Attention by the international community since the beginning of the NATO intervention in Afghanistan has brought increased economic development and security assistance , which could create jobs and strengthen stability in the long term .
Tajikistan is seeking WTO membership and has joined NATO 's Partnership for Peace .
A series of explosions shook the Iraqi capital Wednesday , while a high-ranking U.S. official visited the country .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick visited the former insurgent stronghold of Fallujah to inspect reconstruction efforts there .
Later , he is to meet in Baghdad with Iraqi President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
Meanwhile , near Kirkuk , nine policemen were killed while trying to defuse a bomb .
In Baghdad , at least four people were injured in three separate explosions .
A U.S. military spokeswoman said a fourth blast hit a Defense Department convoy , killing five Iraqis and injuring four U.S. contractors .
And al-Jazeera television aired a video it said shows an American contractor who was abducted Monday near Baghdad .
The video showed the man urging U.S. officials to open a dialogue with insurgents in order to save his life .
Somali gunmen have seized three foreign aid workers in northern Kenya .
The trio was kidnapped early Saturday morning in a raid in the border town of Mandera .
The nationalities of the humanitarian workers and the organizations they work for are not immediately clear .
Two French military advisers were kidnapped in Somalia earlier this week .
They are reportedly being held by the Islamist group al-Shabab .
The French Foreign Ministry says the kidnapped men were on an official mission to provide assistance to the Somali government .
It is not clear whether the French nationals were kidnapped for ransom or political reasons .
Somalia is chaotic after 18 years of internal strife , and foreigners are frequent kidnap targets .
Kidnap victims usually are released unharmed , but in many cases only after a ransom is paid .
South Korea and nine Southeast Asian nations have signed a free-trade deal , with Thailand as the lone critic to the agreement because of a dispute over rice .
Trade ministers from South Korea and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or ASEAN , signed the agreement Friday in Kuala Lumpur , just ahead of next week 's Southeast Asian economic summit there .
Details of the agreement were not immediately available .
Bangkok declined to sign the deal because it objects to South Korea 's insistence on keeping rice out of the trade deal .
The two countries are expected to hold talks over the issue at a later date .
Palestinian witnesses say an Israeli missile strike has killed at least two men traveling in a car in northern Gaza Strip .
Witnesses said the men belonged to the militant group Islamic Jihad , adding the attack Monday seriously wounded a third militant traveling with them .
Israeli military officials said the target of the attack was a senior Islamic Jihad member .
Earlier , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas warned he may delay parliamentary elections set for this month if Israel blocks voting in East Jerusalem .
Mr. Abbas has been under intense pressure to postpone the January 25 vote , especially from members of his own Fatah party .
Last month , Israeli officials said they may block voting in East Jerusalem if candidates from the Hamas militant group are allowed to take part in the balloting .
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan says its forces have killed about 45 insurgents in the country 's south .
The coalition says ground troops called in air support Wednesday after their patrol of foreign and Afghan troops was attacked by Taleban fighters in Uruzgan province .
A similar exchange on Tuesday killed about 12 Taleban fighters in the southern province of Zabul .
In a separate incident , officials say a Bangladeshi aid worker was shot dead by unknown gunmen in the northeastern province of Badakshan .
Coalition and Afghan forces have been fighting the Taleban since 2001 , when a U.S.-led invasion drove the extremist Islamic group from power .
Militant attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan have escalated over the past 19 months , marking the bloodiest period since the beginning of the war .
A former analyst at the U.S. Department of Defense has admitted to giving classified information to pro-Israel lobbyists and an Israeli embassy official .
In a federal court in Virginia Wednesday , Lawrence Franklin pleaded guilty to illegally possessing classified documents and to conspiracy .
The 58-year-old former analyst says he provided information to an official at the Israeli embassy and to two members of a lobbying group called the American Israel Public Affairs Committee .
Franklin used to work as an Iran expert at the Pentagon .
A top Iraqi Shi'ite leader is calling on the United States to let Iraqi forces take a more aggressive role against insurgents .
In an interview published Sunday in the Washington Post , Abdul Aziz Hakim says U.S. troops are hampering efforts by Iraq 's fledgling security forces to hunt down insurgents .
He said there were planned Iraqi military moves against insurgents that should have been implemented months ago .
And he said the rejection of those by U.S. generals has led to an expansion in terror attacks .
He did not provide details .
Mr. Hakim also urged the United States to take stronger action against countries bordering Iraq who harbor insurgents and their supporters .
Mr. Hakim heads the Shi'ite dominated Supreme Council for the Revolution in Iraq , which has the largest representation in parliament .
Norway has barred its oil fund from investing in China 's Dongfeng Motor Group because the firm sell arms supplies to military-ruled Burma .
Norway 's finance ministry says the Chinese company sells military trucks to Burma .
Finance Minster Kristin Halvorsen said Friday Norway can not finance companies that support the military dictatorship in Burma through military sales .
Norway 's oil fund , officially called the Government Pension Fund-Global , invests the country 's oil and gas wealth in foreign stocks and bonds .
The fund is meant to save money for the future when Norway 's oil supply runs dry .
The fund is currently worth around $ 300 billion .
Norway is a major exporter of oil and natural gas .
Iran 's conservative-dominated parliament has voted to speed up debate of a bill that would force the government to scale back its cooperation with U.N. nuclear inspectors .
The official IRNA news agency says parliament passed the motion Wednesday , with 162 lawmakers voting in favor , 42 against and 15 abstaining .
The vote comes after last week 's International Atomic Energy Agency resolution , which puts Iran on notice that it could be referred to the U.N. Security Council if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
Iran has threatened several retaliatory moves , including suspension of a protocol that allows unannounced IAEA inspections of Iranian nuclear facilities .
Tehran has also threatened to scale back trade ties with countries that supported the IAEA resolution .
The United States and several western countries accuse Iran of secretly trying to develop atomic weapons .
Iran denies the charge .
An Afghan court has sentenced a women 's magazine editor to two years in prison for publishing anti-Islamic articles .
Ali Mohaqiq Nasab was arrested on October 1 after his magazine , Haqooq-i-Zan , ( Women 's Rights ) argued that giving up Islam was not a crime that should be punished by death , as sanctioned by some interpretations of Islamic Sharia law .
Other articles criticized the practice of punishing adultery with 100 lashes and argued that men and women should be considered as equals under Islamic law .
On Saturday , Kabul 's Primary Court convicted Mohaqiq of blasphemy .
The case was condemned by a number of Afghan and international media rights groups .
Under a revised March 2004 media law , content deemed insulting to Islam is banned in Afghanistan .
A United Nations human rights envoy has expressed deep concern about the physical and mental health of some 60 imprisoned dissidents in Cuba .
Human rights expert Catherine Chanet told the U.N. Human Rights Council Tuesday that she remains concerned about detention conditions for a group of dissidents - journalists , writers , and activists - arrested in a crackdown in Cuba in 2003 .
She also said Cuba 's refusal to cooperate has resulted in an impasse and she recommended ending yearly reports on Cuba 's human rights situation .
Chanet suggested moving to a proposed new system in which the Human Rights Council reviews the human rights situation of every nation in its membership , not just selected ones with poor past records .
Cuba supports that move .
In a speech Tuesday , the Cuban U.N. ambassador in Geneva said about the yearly reports : " this farce is about to end . "
This is the annual World AIDS Day and the focus this year is women and girls living with the disease .
In Geneva , the World Health Organization marked Wednesday by urging that nations take steps to ensure women and girls are given better access to AIDS prevention and treatment services .
The agency said 47 percent of those infected with the AIDS virus around the globe are female .
The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies joined with other organizations in calling for improved responses to HIV - AIDS around the world .
Human Rights Watch urged countries to drop restrictions on information about condoms , which the U.S.-based organization says remain the single most effective device against sexually transmitted HIV .
World AIDS Day is held each year to raise awareness of HIV - AIDS , which affects tens of millions of people .
President Bush meets at the White House Tuesday with Massoud Barzani , the president of Iraq 's Kurdish region .
The two men are scheduled to speak to reporters after their meeting .
A White House spokesman praised Mr. Barzani Tuesday as a leader committed to building a free and democratic Iraq .
Mr. Barzani , who is a former Kurdish rebel leader , was elected regional president by Kurdish lawmakers in June .
He has pledged to strengthen Iraqi national unity , and he took part in negotiations on Iraq 's new constitution .
Kurds in northern Iraq have enjoyed relative autonomy since the Persian Gulf War of 1991 .
Tourism is the number one foreign exchange earner in this small economy , followed by exports of marine products , citrus , cane sugar , bananas , and garments .
The government 's expansionary monetary and fiscal policies , initiated in September 1998 , led to GDP growth averaging nearly 4 % in 1999 - 2007 .
Oil discoveries in 2006 bolstered this growth .
Exploration efforts have continued and production has increased a small amount .
In February 2007 , the government restructured nearly all of its public external commercial debt , which helped reduce interest payments and relieved some of the country 's liquidity concerns .
Growth slipped to 0 % in 2009 and 1.5 % in 2010 as a result of the global slowdown , natural disasters , and the drop in the price of oil .
With weak economic growth and a large public debt burden , fiscal spending is likely to be tight .
A key government objective remains the reduction of poverty and inequality with the help of international donors .
Although Belize has the second highest per capita income in Central America , the average income figure masks a huge income disparity between rich and poor .
The 2010 Poverty Assessment shows that more than 4 out of 10 people live in poverty .
The sizable trade deficit and heavy foreign debt burden continue to be major concerns .
Rescuers in Djibouti have found at least 22 more bodies from the boat that capsized Thursday , bringing the death toll up to 94 .
The accident is thought to be the worst-ever disaster to occur in the tiny Horn of Africa country .
The search continued Saturday for more people missing from the wooden boat , which flipped over just 100 meters from the dock in the port of Djibouti .
The exact number of passengers remains unknown , but witnesses say the boat was severely overcrowded with at least 250 people .
Some passengers were rescued or swam to shore .
The vessel was headed to a Muslim religious festival in the town of Tadjoura .
A Mexican court has refused to issue an arrest warrant for former President Luis Echeverria and seven others for the 1968 massacre of student protesters .
The ruling came late Wednesday and is the latest setback in the effort by President Vicente Fox 's government to prosecute past government atrocities .
On Monday , federal prosecutors filed charges of genocide against Mr. Echeverria in connection with the 1968 incident in which soldiers and police fired on student protesters , killing as many as 30 .
Mr. Echeverria was Mexico 's interior minister at the time .
Other judges in July dismissed genocide charges against Mr. Echeverria related to the 1971 killings of student protesters when he was Mexico 's president .
Israeli President Moshe Katsav has begun talks with political parties on forming a new coalition government .
Mr. Katsav is to meet Sunday with senior members of the Kadima Party , which won 29 seats in the 120-member parliament in legislative elections Wednesday .
He also is expected to meet with leaders from the Labor Party , which came in second in the poll .
Political observers say Kadima will recommend that its leader , Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert , be formally appointed prime minister and charged with forming a cabinet .
Kadima has already begun informal talks with potential coalition partners .
Mr. Olmert has said coalition partners must accept his plan for unilateral withdrawals from the West Bank .
U.N officials say they have resolved a problem with skewed official exchange rates that led to U.N. losses of more than $ 1.5 million in the delivery of aid to survivors of Cyclone Nargis in Burma .
U.N. officials said Monday Burma 's military government had agreed to let outside donors pay local companies directly in dollars rather than via the official system involving foreign exchange certificates .
Officials also said Burma will waive a 10 percent government transaction fee for all international humanitarian agencies .
The U.N. losses stemmed from Burma 's insistence that donors convert aid dollars into foreign exchange certificates with a value of $ 1 each .
These certificates were then used to buy the local currency , the kyat .
However , the exchange rate for the certificates is 20 percent lower than the market rate .
There are many reasons performers get into show business .
Some want to be stars while others crave the creativity it offers .
VOA 's Ernest Leong has the story of two comedians who , by their own admission , got into show business because they were too lazy to do anything else .
A Spanish judge has charged 29 people with the 2004 Madrid train bombings that killed 191 people , and ruled that al-Qaida was not involved .
Judge Juan del Olmo charged five suspects with 191 counts of murder and more than 1,700 counts of attempted murder - the number of victims wounded .
The other suspects were charged with collaboration .
Most of the suspects are Moroccans or Spaniards .
The murder charges could lead to prison sentences of thousands of years , but under Spanish law prisoners can be held for a maximum of 40 years .
Judge del Olmo said the suspects were inspired by al-Qaida , but said there was no direct link to the terror group .
He also ruled out any connection to the Basque separatist group , ETA .
The suspects are expected to go on trial sometime next year .
Pakistani officials say unknown gunmen have opened fire on a bus carrying the Sri Lankan cricket team , killing at least five police officers and wounding six Sri Lankan players .
Lahore police chief Habibur Rehman said at least 12 gunmen attacked the convoy near Lahore 's Gaddafi stadium Tuesday with rockets , hand grenades and automatic weapons .
He called it a terrorist attack .
Pakistan TV showed footage of gunmen running through the streets and firing on vehicles .
Sri Lanka 's sports minister say at least five players and an assistant coach received minor injuries in the attack , including Kumar Sangakkara , Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga Paranavithana .
Security concerns have plagued Pakistan for many years , and some foreign sports teams have refused to play in the country .
Human rights group Amnesty International has criticized Eritrea over a mass arrest last week of thousands of youths suspected of evading military conscription .
The London-based group says the detainees are being held at the Adi Abeto army prison near Asmara , where they are at risk of torture and mistreatment .
It says Eritrean security forces indiscriminately arrested suspects at their homes , shops , offices and road blocks last Thursday .
Amnesty also accused Eritrean prison officials of opening fire on detainees at the Adi Abeto prison during an apparent escape attempt following the arrests .
The country 's Minister of Information says two detainees were crushed by a wall that collapsed during the escape attempt .
But Amnesty International cites sources as saying as many as 12 people were shot and killed by security forces .
A top Russian official says Moscow remains deeply concerned about U.S. plans for a missile defense system that Washington wants to deploy in central Europe .
Russian National Security Council chief Igor Ivanov said Tuesday he is not optimistic that the United States will address Russian concerns Thursday at a NATO-Russia Council meeting in Brussels .
Ivanov 's skepticism contrasted sharply with that of senior U.S. envoy John Rood , who is in Moscow for talks on the controversial system .
Rood said today he believes progress had been made and that further talks will resolve the dispute .
Last month , Moscow warned that the U.S. missile shield Washington wants to deploy in Poland and the Czech Republic could start a new European arms race .
U.S. officials insist the shield is aimed at preventing attacks from what it calls rogue states like Iran and North Korea .
Pakistan says up to 40 militants were killed during Wednesday 's fighting with security forces in the North Waziristan tribal region , not 16 as reported earlier .
Troops backed by helicopter gunships attacked militant hideouts near the Afghan border after a rebel rocket attack killed four soldiers .
A military spokesman , Major General Shaukat Sultan , said some 19 pro-Taleban militants were captured during the operation .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf has warned foreign militants using the Waziristan region as a hideout to leave or be killed .
He has also promised extra development funds for the region if local tribes stop harboring foreign militants .
Last month , Pakistani security forces killed about 200 militants and their local supporters in North Waziristan in a campaign to rid the area of insurgents .
Presidents and officials from 12 South American countries have launched a plan to create a regional trade bloc modeled after the European Union .
Representatives held a summit Wednesday in the city of Cuzco , Peru , to create the South American Community of Nations .
The trade bloc will represent about 360 million people .
It is expected to have a gross domestic product of around $ 1 trillion , with exports that top $ 180 billion .
The new economic pact will merge the Mercosur trade bloc of Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and Brazil with the Andean Community of Bolivia , Colombia , Ecuador , Peru and Venezuela .
Chile , Suriname and Guyana will also join .
The presidents of Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and Ecuador chose not to attend the summit , but instead sent representatives .
Leaders of Venezuela , Brazil , Colombia and Spain are to meet in the Venezuelan city of Puerto Ordaz Tuesday to discuss various issues , including trade and political alliances .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , his Brazilian and Colombian counterparts , Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Alvaro Uribe , as well as Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero are also to discuss drug smuggling , terrorism and seeking a common position toward Colombian rebels .
The Associated Press reports the National Liberation Army , one of Colombia 's leftist rebel groups , issued a statement saying it rejects terrorism and that it hopes the governments involved in today 's talks will create a greater certainty for peace in the region .
Hundreds of Pakistanis have demonstrated in the northwestern Bajaur tribal region against a purported U.S. airstrike last week that killed civilians .
Sunday 's rally was held near the site of the January 13 attack , widely reported to have been carried out by a CIA drone aircraft .
Demonstrators chanted slogans against the United States and burned effigies of President Bush .
The missile strike in the village of Damadola was apparently intended for , but missed , al-Qaida 's second-in-command , Ayman al-Zawahiri .
However , Pakistani officials say it killed at least three other top al-Qaida members , including a chemical weapons expert .
The attack has caused friction between Islamabad and Washington .
On Saturday , Pakistan 's Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri called for better cooperation between the two countries to avoid a repeat of the missile strike .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana says EU officials will likely decide Tuesday to sharply cut the number of peacekeepers in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Solana said Monday the security situation in Bosnia is much improved .
EU officials will likely reduce the number of troops from the current 6,000 to 2,500 .
The ministers are also expected to formally decide today on whether to extend the Bosnian peacekeeping mission for another year .
The current mandate expires on June 30 .
NATO peacekeepers were deployed to Bosnia as part of the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords that ended the fighting in the former Yugoslavia .
NATO turned over peacekeeping duties to the European Union in 2004 .
The French news agency , Agence France Presse , says one of its photographers has been kidnapped in the Gaza Strip .
The agency has identified the photographer as 50 year old Jaime Razuri , a Peruvian national .
AFP says Razuri had just finished covering a story and had returned to the agency 's office in Gaza .
His translator says two gunmen abducted the photographer and fled in a Japanese car .
Kidnappings are frequent in the Gaza Strip .
Reporters without Borders , a Press watchdog , says Gaza is one of the riskiest places for journalists .
In October , a Spanish photographer was kidnapped in the Gaza Strip .
He was released unharmed after half-a-day in captivity .
Kurdish officials say Iran has closed its border with Iraq 's northern Kurdish region as a protest to the arrest of an Iranian by the U.S. military .
The closure of the border Monday , came after the detention of Mahmudi Farhadi , a civilian official , who was arrested Thursday at a hotel in Sulaimaniyah .
The U.S. military says Farhadi is a member of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Quds Force , a covert action arm of the Iranian government accused of aiding lethal attacks against the Iraq government and coalition forces .
Iraqi and Iranian leaders say he was in the country on official business and with the full knowledge of the government .
U.S. military officials say Farhadi has been involved in transporting explosives into Iraq .
The military says intelligence reports also indicate he was involved in the infiltration and training of foreign terrorists in Iraq .
A new U.S. Census Bureau report says Hispanics accounted for almost half of the population growth in the U.S. last year , and most of those new residents were born in the United States instead of Latin America .
The report suggests the Hispanic population boom would continue for at least a generation , even if immigration stopped .
Meanwhile , the portion of the population descended from Europeans is both shrinking and getting older .
Analysts say the shift in age and ethnic make up could cause increased social strains .
The United States is currently embroiled in a debate about regulating illegal immigration .
Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators have rallied across the country in recent weeks to demand more rights for illegal immigrants and to generally emphasize the importance of immigrants to the nation 's economy and culture .
The government of the Central African Republic has signed a peace accord with two of the country 's main rebel groups .
The agreement was signed Saturday in the West African nation of Gabon .
The deal calls for the demobilization of all rebel fighters as well as their reintegration into civilian life .
It was signed by the members of the C.A.R. government and rebels from the Popular Army for the Restoration of Democracy ( APRD ) and the Union of Democratic Forces Coalition .
The ceremony was also attended by C.A.R. President Francois Bozize and his Gabonese counterpart Omar Bongo Ondimba .
The Central African Republic has suffered through decades of coups and rebellions since gaining independence in 1960 .
The United Nations says unrest in the country has forced more than 300,000 people to flee their homes .
An aid group says more than 54,000 North Koreans are dead or missing after widespread flooding .
The South Korea-based Good Friends organization released that figure Wednesday and added that another 2.5 million people are believed to have been left homeless .
Several days ago , the group had estimated a death toll of about 10,000 .
Good Friends did not indicate where it obtained the information or why its estimate has increased .
Confirmation of the figures has not been possible .
The North Korean government has estimated the death toll in the hundreds .
Earlier this month , South Korea announced it will give an aid package worth more than $ 10 million to independent aid groups to help flood victims in North Korea .
North Korean officials formally requested the help from South Korea , after initially turning down aid offers from foreign relief agencies .
Iraq 's ruling Shi'ite alliance has chosen incumbent Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari to head the new government .
He received 64 votes in the caucus of Shi'ite legislators , beating his rival , Vice President Abel Abdul-Mahdi by one vote .
The Shi'ite alliance won a majority in Iraq 's December legislative election .
Naming the prime minister is a key step in forming a new Iraqi government , the nation 's first post-Saddam Hussein parliament with a four-year mandate .
Separately , Iraqi police say at least 12 people were wounded today when two roadside bombs exploded in quick succession near a restaurant in central Baghdad .
Also , the U.S. military says insurgents fired a mortar round Sunday into the heavily fortified Green Zone , home to the U.S. Embassy and Iraqi government .
There were no reports of casualties .
Iran 's state television says six people have been killed and several others wounded in two bomb blasts in the city of Ahvaz , the capital of the oil-rich southwestern province of Khuzestan .
The report says the blasts occurred Tuesday morning at a bank and a government building .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due to visit the city , but his office says the trip was canceled because of bad weather .
There have been several incidents of ethnic unrest in recent months in Ahvaz , which is near Iraq .
The region is home to Iran 's minority Arab community .
Spain 's High Court has convicted a suspected al-Qaida cell leader of conspiracy in the plotting of the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States in Europe 's biggest terror trial .
The court sentenced Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas to 27 years in prison .
Prosecutors say he arranged a meeting in Spain of key planners of the attacks in July , 2001 .
Two other suspects were acquitted of charges related to the attacks .
The court also sentenced al-Jazeera correspondent Tayssir Alouni to seven years in prison for carrying money to al-Qaida members in Afghanistan .
Al-Jazeera denounced the verdict .
Media rights group Reporters Without Borders says the conviction was linked to Alouni 's job , because prosecutors repeatedly referred to his 2001 interview with al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan .
Sixteen other suspects were convicted of charges of collaborating with or belonging to a terrorist group .
Russian state-controlled gas firm Gazprom has filed an appeal in U.S. district court seeking to overturn a judge 's order blocking the auction of Yukos ' main oil producing subsidiary .
Yukos , which has financial holdings in the United States , filed for bankruptcy in Texas this week and won a 10-day restraining order against the sale from a court in Houston .
Russia said earlier it would proceed with the auction Sunday disregarding the U.S. court 's order .
Russian officials say the sale of Yuganskneftgaz is in accord with Russian law , and U.S. courts have no jurisdiction .
However , Gazprom is facing trouble in securing financing from U.S. and European banks which reportedly put on hold a $ 10 billion loan awaiting the U.S. court 's final decision .
Russian authorities ordered the sale to help cover Yukos ' tax bill of more than $ 27 billion .
A South African group has presented one of its highest honors - the Mahatma Gandhi prize - to a representative of Burmese democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The prize is awarded by the Gandhi Development Trust in honor of India 's political and spiritual leader during that country 's movement for independence from Britain .
The award was presented Monday to Sein Win - the prime minister of the self-proclaimed government-in-exile - at a ceremony in the South African city of Durban .
The award , created in 2003 , was given last year to anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela .
Aung San Suu Kyi is in prison in Rangoon facing a trial on charges of violating the terms of her house arrest .
The Nobel Peace laureate has been under house arrest for more than 13 of the last 19 years , and could spend five years behind bars if convicted .
Security forces in Indonesia are on guard to prevent attacks as Christians in the mostly Muslim country celebrate Christmas .
Sixty-one thousand security personnel are protecting churches and other possible terrorist targets .
Seventeen thousand security officers are on duty in Jakarta , some dressed like Santa Claus .
Officials are concerned that the Islamist extremist group , Jemaah Islamiyah , might use group 's bomb-making expert , Azahari Husin , last month .
Church bombings in Indonesia on Christmas Eve , December 24 , five years ago killed 19 people .
Officials suspect Jemaah Islamiyah carried out those attacks .
Russian voters Sunday took part in the last direct election of a regional governor .
The balloting in the far northern Nenets Autonomous District is the final time any Russian voter can express his or her choice for regional leader .
Under a new law , President Vladimir Putin will appoint governors .
Mr. Putin argues the new system is needed to help strengthen federal authority and avert terrorist attacks .
Protesters held a rally in Moscow timed to coincide with the election .
Some carried signs warning that the end of regional voting will lead to the collapse of Russia .
At a stop in Poland on Saturday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed concern over democratic prospects in Russia .
The day before , a regional assembly in eastern Russia quickly approved the first of Mr. Putin 's appointed governors .
El Salvador has sent a fourth contingent of soldiers to Iraq .
Roughly 380 soldiers from the Cuscatlan Battalion left a military base Thursday for their six-month tour of duty in Iraq .
Officials say the troops will make a stop in Kuwait .
The Salvadorans will replace 380 troops who have been in Iraq since last August .
El Salvador is the only Latin American country with troops in Iraq .
Honduras , Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic have withdrawn their forces .
Last April , one Salvadoran soldier was killed and 12 others wounded during a clash with insurgents .
Britain 's defense ministry has given the long-awaited go-ahead for a nearly $ 8 billion deal to build two aircraft carriers that will be the Royal Navy 's largest warships .
Authorities say the contract for the 65,000-ton carriers , the HMS Queen Elizabeth and the HMS Prince of Wales , will safeguard about 10,000 jobs in Britain 's shipbuilding sector .
Blueprints show the 280-meter-long ships carrying up to 40 aircraft .
They are expected to be launched by 2016 .
Defense Minister Des Brown said Tuesday the ships will provide British forces with " modern , world-class capabilities . "
Britain 's largest defense firm , BAE Systems , will join the VT Group as part of a consortium that will build the new carriers in shipyards in Scotland and England .
Authorities say contracts are likely to be signed next month .
President Bush has phoned Northern Ireland 's main Protestant leader Ian Paisley , offering to help the province strike a deal to revive power-sharing in the British province .
Mr. Bush told reporters he wants to be part of the process to reach an agreement .
Mr. Paisley said he told Mr. Bush any deal would have to address fundamental issues that have blocked progress .
Earlier this week , Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern warned Northern Ireland 's parties they must decide within days whether to accept new proposals to break the deadlock over power-sharing .
The proposals include monitoring by Catholic and Protestant clerics of the disarmament of the Catholic Irish Republican Army .
President Bush is also expected to phone Gerry Adams , the leader of the IRA 's political wing , Sinn Fein .
Britain suspended Northern Ireland 's power-sharing government two years ago amid charges of IRA spying on provincial officials .
A prominent U.S. senator has demanded a probe into allegations that the federal agency charged with guarding drug safety is attempting to discredit an agency whistleblower .
Senate Finance Chairman Charles Grassley , a Republican wrote the Health and Human Services Department Wednesday to request an investigation of defaming phone calls about Food and Drug Administration , FDA , safety officer David Graham .
The phone calls were received by the Government Accountability Project , a public interest group that defends whistleblowers .
Dr. Graham alleges the calls are a response to his congressional testimony last week during which he said the FDA has abandoned its watchdog role for a cozy relationship with the pharmaceutical industry , a charge the agency denies .
He told Congress the FDA has left consumers virtually defenseless against unsafe prescription drugs .
He also said five drugs on the market , besides the recently withdrawn pain medication Vioxx , need further review .
British police have announced the arrest of three people in the central industrial city of Coventry under anti-terrorism laws .
Authorities say two men aged 30 and 29 and a woman aged 41 have been transferred to London where they are facing police questioning .
Officials have searched five premises in the area in connection with the probe .
Police have not disclosed the identities of the suspects , and have released no information on the offenses the three are suspected of committing .
Police may hold the suspects without charge for as long as 14 days .
Police have arrested more than 700 people since the anti-terrorism law that went into effect after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States .
Authorities have charged more than 100 of them with terrorist offenses and won about 15 convictions .
Chinese health officials are reporting a suspected case of avian flu in a man hospitalized in critical condition in Guangdong province .
The Hong Kong Department of Health reports Tuesday that the 31-year-old patient is being treated at a hospital in Shenzhen near Hong Kong .
They say he developed fever and pneumonia June 3 .
The health officials say the man reportedly had visited a local market in Shenzhen where live chickens were sold .
Officials in Hong Kong are urging the public to take health precautions and to watch for bird flu symtoms .
There is a good deal of travel between the city and Guangdong province .
Bird flu has killed more than 125 people around the world since late 2003 .
Most of the victims have been in Asia .
Police in Sudan say they have arrested a number of suspects in connection with the murder of a Khartoum newspaper editor .
Sudan 's official news agency cites a top police official , Major General Mohamed Najib al-Tayeb , as saying authorities continue their investigation into the murder of Taha Mohamed Ahmed .
Ahmed was found decapitated in southern Khartoum Wednesday , less than a day after he was kidnapped from his home .
Ahmed was editor of the newspaper al-Wifaq .
Last year , Islamic radicals called for him to be killed after he published articles that questioned the roots of the Prophet Muhammad .
The editor of the Khartoum Monitor newspaper , Alfred Taban , has said he fears Ahmed 's murder indicates the presence of extremist groups in Sudan .
Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed joined his troops on the front lines Wednesday night as they fought Islamist militants in the capital .
Witnesses and officials say the president , dressed in military fatigues , was stationed with Somali government forces and African Union peacekeepers .
One presidential aide said Mr. Sharif was armed with an AK-47 rifle .
At least seven people were killed in Mogadishu late Wednesday as government forces traded shell and gunfire with al-Shabab insurgents .
Mr. Sharif was unhurt in the fighting , but a journalist told VOA 's Somali Service that a mortar shell landed about a third of a kilometer away from the president .
Mr. Sharif , a moderate Islamist , was elected by parliament 18 months ago to lead Somalia 's fragile transitional government .
The government controls only small parts of the capital after a three-and-a-half-year Islamist insurgency .
Israeli officials have confirmed that the United Nations is investigating the alleged sale of Israeli arms to Ivory Coast - a possible violation of a U.N. arms embargo against the West African country .
Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev Thursday said that Israel is cooperating fully with the U.N. probe .
Israeli officials say a U.N. team was in Israel this week to look into possible violations of the arms embargo against Ivory Coast .
Israeli officials have denied any wrongdoing .
The U.N. Security Council unanimously imposed the embargo last November to try and stop a renewal of fighting in the country .
The French-drafted resolution prohibits arms sales to both Ivory Coast 's government and rebels in the north .
It also allows U.N. and French peacekeepers to inspect cargo shipments into the country .
Little Johnny and his family lived in the country , and as a result , seldom had guests .
He was eager to help his mother after his father appeared with two dinner guests from the office .
When the dinner was nearly over , Little Johnny went to the kitchen and proudly carried in the first piece of apple pie , giving it to his father , who passed it to a guest .
Little Johnny came in with a second piece of pie and gave it to his father , who again gave it to a guest .
This was too much for Little Johnny , who said , " It 's no use , Dad .
The pieces are all the same size . "
Insurgents in Iraq have threatened to kill three kidnapped Romanian journalists and their Iraqi-American translator unless Romania withdraws its troops from Iraq .
The Arabic television channel al-Jazeera broadcast the videotaped threat Friday .
The video shows the hostages appealing to the Romanian government to announce the withdrawal of its 800 troops within four days .
Otherwise , the insurgents say the hostages will be executed .
Earlier , a car bomb attack on a Shi'ite mosque in Baghdad killed at least nine people and wounded 20 others .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack outside the al-Subeih mosque during Friday prayers .
Experts from an international group opposed to the spread of nuclear arms have met with Pakistani officials to discuss non-proliferation efforts .
Monday 's meeting was the first between the Nuclear Suppliers Group and representatives of Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry .
The talks focused on Pakistan 's desire to join the organization .
Pakistani officials learned what criteria the Asian country would need to meet for membership in the group .
Pakistan contacted the 44-member organization earlier this year asking the group to join in coordinating the country 's non-proliferation efforts .
The Nuclear Suppliers Group was formed in 1974 .
Its members monitor sensitive equipment from industrialized countries that could be used for illicit weapons .
The group also coordinates the implementation of guidelines that would govern nuclear and nuclear-related exports .
Pakistan became a nuclear power in 1998 .
About 100 protesters on the Indonesian island of Bali held a protest Monday calling for the swift execution of three men convicted of the 2002 Bali bombing .
The three central figures in the 2002 attack have been sentenced to death , but convicts often wait years on Indonesia 's death row .
The protesters , many wearing traditional Balinese clothing , gathered outside the High Court in Bali 's provincial capital , Denpasar .
Wednesday is the third anniversary of the blasts that killed 202 people in Kuta .
Anger over terrorist acts in Bali is especially strong in the run-up to the anniversary because of the recent Kuta and Jimbaran bombings that killed 20 people and the three bombers October 1 .
Doctors in Vienna say Ukraine 's opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko was the victim of dioxin poisoning .
The director of a leading Vienna hospital , Rudolfinerhaus - Dr. Michael Zimpfer , told reporters there is no doubt the illness that disfigured Mr. Yushchenko 's face was the result of the dioxin .
He said blood tests and a check on the size and functioning of Mr. Yushchenko 's vital organs confirmed the poisoning .
But he stressed that it remains unclear if it was deliberate .
Mr. Yushchenko became ill in September .
He has consistently accused Ukrainian authorities of trying to poison him in the run-up to November 's disputed presidential election .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court voided the outcome on grounds of widespread fraud .
According to those results , Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych won the vote .
Court ordered repeat of the runoff balloting is set for December 26 .
Some 900 students were trapped in the wreckage of Juyuan Middle School in China 's Sichuan province after Monday 's earthquake .
Most are now presumed dead .
Workers have recovered dozens of bodies and a few survivors from the rubble - but hundreds remain buried .
Since the earthquake , the wreckage of the school has been surrounded by anguished family members , who set off firecrackers , according to tradition , to mark the sad event .
Overnight rains turned the schoolyard to mud as parents lit candles and waited for news of their children .
Some bystanders called out to emergency workers , weeping and asking them to hurry as they picked through the debris with tools .
Recovered corpses were laid out on the ground for identification .
Because other buildings in Juyuan were left standing , the disaster has raised questions about the quality of the school 's construction .
China has imposed new rules on Internet news sites in another step to regulate web sites in the country .
The official Xinhua news agency says the new regulations are effective immediately .
It says Internet news sites and content must provide information that is beneficial to the public and state .
It added that sites are prohibited from spreading news that goes against China 's security and public interest .
Chinese authorities closely monitor Internet content and remove sites they believe are inappropriate .
China also requires people to register their websites and blogs .
Security officials in Gaza City say gunmen killed five Palestinians , including a top intelligence officer , in a drive-by shooting Friday .
The incident occurred near the home of Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh .
Officials say unidentified gunmen in a car opened fire on a vehicle carrying Jad Tayeh , an officer in the Palestinian intelligence service and four of his bodyguards .
The motive for the attack is not clear .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility .
In the past , there have been several incidents of deadly clashes between rival Palestinian factions , including the ruling Hamas organization and the Fatah group led by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Also in Gaza City , witnesses say a small explosion caused minor damage outside a Greek Orthodox church Friday .
No one was injured in the blast .
Rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo have called for a ceasefire ahead of expected peace talks with the government .
Renegade General Laurent Nkunda Wednesday said a ceasefire between his rebels and the DRC army would help facilitate the upcoming peace conference .
The Congolese government had been expected to convene a meeting Thursday with all armed groups on peace , security and development in the eastern regional capital of Goma .
But officials Wednesday postponed the talks until January 6 .
The national army , renegade troops led by Nkunda , and various armed militias have been fighting in the eastern provinces of North and South Kivu since August .
The fighting has displaced around 800,000 civilians .
During this month alone , tens of thousands of people have been forced to flee fighting in or near their villages .
Displacement camps in the region are now overflowing , and many aid agencies have had to suspend delivery of aid because of the security risks .
Donors and investors have pledged $ 3.55 billion dollars to develop the impoverished eastern part of Sudan .
Officials say a two-day donors ' conference hosted by Kuwait resulted in pledges of $ 500 million from Kuwait , $ 200 million from Iran , and $ 35 million from China .
Pledges from institutions include $ 200 million from the Islamic Development Bank and $ 300 million from the Arab Investment Guarantee Organization .
The funds are to go toward infrastructure development and social services .
Sudan 's government agreed to develop eastern Sudan in a 2006 peace deal it signed with rebels in the region .
The area is rich in natural resources , and contains the country 's only commercial port .
The rebellion in east Sudan was separate from Sudan 's long-running north-south civil war and the conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Indonesian officials say they will require foreigners who want to work in the country to pass a language proficiency test before giving them work permits .
Would-be workers will have to show competency in the national language , Bahasa Indonesia , although the degree of proficiency needed might vary depending on how much direct contact with Indonesians the job requires .
The officials did not give a starting date for the language requirement .
Indonesia is to open its doors to job seekers from other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations next year under a regional free trade agreement .
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait on her .
She was in the habit of waking them early in the morning , at cockcrow .
The maidens , aggravated by such excessive labor , resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so early .
When they had done this , they found that they had only prepared for themselves greater troubles , for their mistress , no longer hearing the hour from the cock , woke them up to their work in the middle of the night .
NATO-led troops in Afghanistan have killed a second civilian originally suspected of being a suicide bomber .
A NATO spokesman said a man failed to heed a warning as he approached a NATO convoy just west of Kandahar on Saturday .
Members of the convoy saw what appeared to be a device with wires protruding from his chest .
The NATO statement says troops fired two warning shots before firing the shot that killed him .
When the troops searched the man , they found twine and other materials protruding from his jacket but no explosives .
A nearly identical incident occurred near the Kandahar airfield earlier the same day .
A U.S. judge has ordered Sudan to pay nearly eight million dollars to the families of 17 sailors killed in the 2000 terrorist attack on the Navy 's USS
Cole in Yemen .
The judge announced the ruling Wednesday in Washington , D.C. Families of the victims accused Sudan of providing financial support and training to members of the al-Qaida terror network .
In March , the judge ruled that Sudan should be held accountable for the incident .
Two Yemeni al-Qaida-linked terrorists carried out the suicide attack on the U.S. navy ship in the port of Aden .
Authorities in Afghanistan say Taleban fighters ambushed a police patrol in the southern province of Kandahar late Friday , killing four police officers and wounding three .
Police said the ambush occurred in the Panjwayi district .
There was no information about Taleban casualties .
The police chief of southern Helmand province said Friday that NATO war planes bombarded a militant hideout during clashes in the Sangin district Thursday , killing 10 Taleban fighters .
Some reports say a Taleban commander was killed , while other reports say he was wounded in the clashes with NATO and Afghan forces .
NATO did not confirm the number of Taleban casualties , but said no NATO troops were killed in the fighting .
Militant attacks are frequent in restive Kandahar and Helmand provinces .
China 's 10th National Games have ended in Nanjing , with nearly 10,000 athletes competing in 32 sports at the quadrennial event .
International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge praised China 's organization of the Games Sunday , saying he was confident it would translate into a successful 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing .
While numerous Olympic medalists were crowned champion , a new generation of young athletes also made its mark .
China is hoping to top the medal table at the Beijing Olympics after coming third in Athens and trailing the United States by just three in the gold medal tally .
But the National Games were also tainted by the positive dope test of star distance runner Sun Yingjie , a reminder of Chinese drugs scandals of the past .
The head of the Russian natural gas monopoly Gazprom says his firm is ready to merge with the state-run Rosneft oil firm .
Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller said Wednesday the deal could be finalized in the near future .
The merger would follow Rosneft 's acquisition of Yuganskneftegaz , the main unit of Russia 's embattled giant oil firm Yukos .
Rosneft gained Yuganskneftegaz after purchasing the mysterious Baikal Group for more than $ 9 billion last month after Baikal purchased Yuganskneftegaz at a court-ordered auction .
Critics sharply criticized the transactions as a government sham .
Russian officials say the auction was part of efforts to reclaim billions of dollars that Yukos owes in back taxes .
The Sudanese government and southern rebels have signed peace accords , marking the completion of a deal to end 21 years of civil war .
One of the accords signed Friday is a permanent cease-fire , while the other covers details of how the final peace deal will be implemented .
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir and South African President Thabo Mbeki attended the ceremony in the Kenyan town of Naivasha , where previous talks have yielded several partial agreements .
Friday 's signing fulfills a pledge by the government and the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Army to reach an agreement by the end of 2004 .
Now , all that remains is for top negotiators from both sides to sign a final document .
Mediators say that will likely take place January 9 .
Kyrgyzstan 's new leadership is meeting with the head of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , OSCE , as well as senior officials from Ukraine and Georgia - the two former Soviet states where popular revolts toppled autocratic regimes .
OSCE Chairman Dimitrij Rupel and interim Kyrgyz President Kurmanbek Bakiyev met Thursday , to discuss preparations for a June presidential election .
The Georgian and Ukrainian foreign ministers are due to meet other interim Kyrgyz officials later in the day .
Wednesday , Mr. Bakiyev warned ousted President Askar Akayev against returning to the country , saying it could provoke a new wave of violence as passions sparked by last week 's political crisis have not yet died down .
Mr. Akayev has expressed willingness to return to Bishkek to offer his resignation .
Mr. Akayev fled to Moscow last week after thousands of opposition demonstrators stormed the presidential palace .
Pakistani police officials say gunmen kidnapped a Polish engineer in northern Pakistan Sunday and killed three Pakistanis during the abduction .
Authorities say the kidnapping took place in the Attock district of the Punjab province .
Officials say the kidnapped Pole worked for Geofizyka Krakow , an oil company .
It was not immediately clear if the kidnappers planned to seek a ransom or make political demands in return for his release .
No one has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping or the killings .
The United Nations says at least 30 civilians were massacred in eastern Congo in an apparent reprisal attack for the killing of three dissident soldiers .
A team of U.N. investigators says renegade Congolese forces attacked Buramba village in mid-December , targeting civilians it believed supported pro-government fighters .
The investigators say among the dead are women and children .
It found some burned corpses and others killed in the hills surrounding Buramba .
It says the town was looted and completely deserted .
Buramba is in Congo 's restive North Kivu province where fighting broke out last month between former Rwandan-backed rebels , who are supposed to be part of Congo 's new army , and regular army forces .
The United Nations says the massacre was in revenge for the killing of three dissident soldiers who were trying to steal rice by pro-government Mai Mai fighters militiamen .
The head of the U.S. foreign aid agency has warned that the cost of rebuilding from Hurricane Katrina may reduce available funds for international assistance .
Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development , Andrew Natsios , said he discussed the issue with foreign diplomats Thursday on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly meeting .
He told reporters that Washington is trying to lower the expectations of some governments , which have been calling for aid increases .
But Mr. Natsios said Washington will maintain its commitment to helping failed states that U.S. officials fear could become havens for international terrorists .
Congress has already approved $ 62 billion for hurricane recovery efforts , and may be asked to authorize more next month .
News agencies in Iran say Tehran welcomes " constructive " talks with world powers on its nuclear program .
The statement by Iranian officials Wednesday is in response to a recent invitation from six major world powers , including the U.S. , to discuss the nuclear dispute .
The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency , IAEA , had said earlier this week that Iran should " reciprocate " recent overtures by the Obama administration aimed at ending an international standoff over Tehran 's nuclear drive .
The IAEA is the United Nations ' global nuclear watchdog and has wrestled with Tehran over its efforts to enrich uranium , which can be used as an ingredient in atomic weapons .
The U.S. and its Western allies believe Iran 's nuclear program may have a military component .
Iran says its atomic activities are for peaceful , civilian use .
Bulgaria 's parliament has approved a plan to withdraw all Bulgarian troops from Iraq by the end of the year .
The decision in Sofia Thursday finalizes a March proposal by the government of Prime Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha to withdraw the 450-soldiers by December .
It also comes one month before voters , many opposed to the troop deployment , elect a new parliament .
Opposition Socialists , who have been ahead in opinion polls , oppose Bulgaria 's continued involvement in Iraq .
Nine Bulgarian soldiers have been killed in the war-torn country , including one by U.S. troops in a friendly fire incident .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb in southeastern Afghanistan has killed seven Afghan soldiers .
Authorities say the bomb struck an Afghan army vehicle Wednesday in Paktika province , which borders Pakistan .
Elsewhere , Afghan officials say militants ambushed a police vehicle late Tuesday in the country 's western Herat province , killing at least three police officers and wounding two others .
Also on Tuesday , Afghan officials say Afghan and NATO forces clashed with Taleban insurgents in southern Zabul province .
Eleven militants were killed .
NATO and U.S.-led coalition troops have been fighting Taleban insurgents , whose attacks have increased dramatically over the past year .
In 2006 , a resurgent Taleban movement carried out the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban government in November 2001 .
The European Union has warned Serbia that it may freeze negotiations on closer ties if Belgrade does not cooperate fully in capturing fugitive war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic .
EU enlargement chief Olli Rehn issued the threat Thursday as he prepared to publish a highly anticipated report next week on Serbia 's progress towards EU standards .
Rehn told a committee of the European Parliament that Serbia 's cooperation includes Mladic 's arrest and transfer .
The U.N. War Crimes Tribunal has indicted the former top Bosnian Serb military commander for attacks on civilians during the conflict of the 1990s in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Many Serbs regard the handover of Mladic to the tribunal as necessary to boost Serbia 's hopes of eventual EU membership .
But others view Mladic as a hero .
The United Nations says restrictions imposed by Eritrea have limited the U.N. 's ability to watch the tense Eritrea-Ethiopia border .
A new report from Secretary-General Kofi Annan , released late Friday , says U.N. observers are able to monitor just 40 percent of the territory in their mandated area .
It says the observers ' ability to give timely warning of any military action along the border has been " seriously reduced . "
Eritrea has kept restrictions on U.N. helicopter flights and ground patrols despite a Security Council demand that the restrictions be lifted .
Eritrean leaders say the U.N. is doing too little to make Ethiopia accept a borderline drawn up by an independent panel .
The countries fought a two-year border war ending in 2000 that killed 70,000 people .
The Security Council has threatened sanctions against both countries if they renew hostilities .
A British maritime organization has called for the waters off Somalia to be declared a war zone following Saturday 's pirate attack on a luxury cruise ship .
The National Union of Marine , Aviation and Shipping Transport Officers says the situation off Somalia is anarchic and that it is time for governments to get involved .
The union is also calling for a naval task force to be established to stop the attackers .
Saturday 's attack on the Seabourne Spirit is the latest in more than 20 reported pirate attacks off Somalia since March .
No one was seriously injured Saturday when pirates fired grenades at the cruise ship , which sped away from the attackers before they could board .
The ship was carrying American , British and Australian tourists .
The Fédération Internationale de Football Association , the governing body of world football , or soccer , has agreed to increase its spending on tsunami relief by $ 2.8 million .
Sri Lanka will get $ 1.5 million , the most money of any countries receiving a portion of the new payment .
That sum will be distributed to 13 projects across the country .
Thailand will get about $ 449,000 , which will be used to build the Tsunami Memorial Football Center .
Maldives will get $ 441 , 500 to fix that country 's football association 's headquarters and national training center .
The money will come from a tsunami relief fund operated jointly by FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation , created in response to last December 's catastrophe .
FIFA president Sepp Blatter has denied allegations that football 's world governing body is corrupt and says England was a " bad loser " for complaining after Russia was chosen last week to host the 2018 World Cup .
Blatter said Wednesday FIFA is " financially clean and clear , " but acknowledged it needs to improve its image .
He promised to form a task force to look into compliance issues .
England bid officials accused FIFA executive committee members of not delivering votes they had promised .
England 's 2018 bid chief Andy Anson claimed Blatter influenced committee members against England 's bid by reminding them of British media reports that resulted in two members being banned .
Blatter also said England 's reaction was an example of the arrogance of the western world , and that is unhappy when " others get a chance for a change . "
An international journalists ' group says it has confirmed the deaths of 129 journalists around the world last year , making 2004 one of the deadliest on record for the media .
In a report issued Tuesday , the International Federation of Journalists says many journalists around the world have been " targeted , brutalized and done to death by the enemies of press freedom . "
The report singles out Iraq , where more than 20 journalists were killed last year , and the Philippines , where 13 lost their lives under violent circumstances .
It also criticizes the failure of governments worldwide to investigate journalists ' killings .
The group says it expects the number of journalists killed in 2004 to rise further as more information becomes available .
It says the worst year was 1994 , when 157 journalists were killed .
Faced with hard times , the company offered a bonus of one thousand dollars to any employee who could come up with a way of saving money .
The bonus went to a young woman in accounting who suggested limiting future bonuses to ten dollars .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has assured China that the relationship between their countries will remain strong even after he steps down as leader next year .
Mr. Putin and his Chinese counterpart , Hu Jintao met on the sidelines of the APEC summit in Sydney Saturday .
The Russian leader said that he and Mr. Hu have achieved the highest level of Russian-Chinese relations , and he said there is no doubt that the strong relations will continue in the coming years .
Russia will hold presidential elections in March of next year .
Mr. Putin is not eligible to run for reelection after serving two terms .
China has confirmed that a high-ranking North Korean diplomat visited Beijing earlier this week to discuss the stalled six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear program .
A spokesman for China 's Foreign Ministry says Kang Sok Ju , North Korea 's first vice foreign minister , arrived in Beijing last Saturday for talks with Chinese officials , including Vice Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo .
The talks ended Tuesday .
The spokesman did not say if North Korea has agreed to return to the negotiations .
Meanwhile , the head of North Korea 's legislature , Choe Thae Bok , told a conference in Manila on Tuesday that his country produced nuclear weapons because it needs to protect itself from an invasion by the United States .
Washington has repeatedly said it has no plans for such an attack .
Police in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu say they have detained more than 560 Tibetan protesters Sunday , all of them women .
It was the all female demonstration against China 's crackdown in Tibet since violence erupted in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa in March .
Since then , Tibetan exiles have taken part in anti-China protests nearly every day .
Nepal is home to about 20,000 Tibetan refugees .
On Saturday , police in Nepal detained at least 120 Tibetan protesters who demonstrated in front of the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu .
The protesters chained themselves together in small groups , waved Tibetan flags and chanted slogans against China .
Most of those detained during the protests are freed the same day .
Nepal regards Tibet as part of China .
The foreign ministers of France , Italy and Spain are in Lebanon Saturday to urge rival factions to agree on the election of a new president as a step toward breaking a lengthy political deadlock .
The one-day visits by Bernard Kouchner of France , Massimo D'Alema of Italy and Miguel Angel Moratinos of Spain come three days before Lebanon 's parliament is to make another attempt to select a new president .
The ministers are to meet in with top pro-government and opposition political leaders .
A first parliamentary session in September was postponed due to disagreement between the ruling anti-Syrian majority and Hezbollah-led pro-Syrian opposition , and it is feared Tuesday 's session will also end in failure .
If the deadlock continues , some fear the country could end up with two rival governments .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas are to meet as early as Tuesday for the first summit since Israel 's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Israeli officials say representatives from both governments will meet Friday to set the date and other details of the meeting .
Earlier , Jordan said King Abdullah had helped arrange the meeting in an effort to advance the Middle East peace process .
It was not clear if King Abdullah would attend .
A summit between the Israeli and Palestinian leaders was called off earlier this month , amid violence in the Gaza Strip .
Meanwhile , Egypt has begun construction on a new crossing along the borders of Egypt , Gaza and Israel .
Last month , a key crossing at Rafah was closed as part of the Israeli withdrawal .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says authorities have confiscated some 2.5 metric tons of cocaine and arrested 11 suspected drug smugglers in a raid on a hidden airstrip in a remote eastern region .
Mr. Chavez said the drugs were found in a private plane that had been registered in the United States .
Venezuela has been criticized recently by Washington for failing to fight drug trafficking effectively .
U.S. and Venezuelan officials had collaborated in the fight against illegal drugs until this year , when Mr. Chavez accused U.S. drug agents of spying on his government and suspended cooperation with them .
Venezuela serves as a corridor for illegal drugs moving from Colombia to the United State or Europe .
The U.S. military says Afghan and coalition forces have destroyed what they called a Taleban headquarters and killed 25 militants in southern Afghanistan .
The military says soldiers raided two Taleban compounds near Kandahar city late Saturday , following intelligence reports that the rebels were trying to re-establish control in the area .
The military says the troops called in air strikes after insurgents opened fire and one man blew himself up in a suicide attack .
It says there were no casualties among Afghan and coalition soldiers .
In other violence , Afghan police say a bomb attached to a bicycle exploded in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif late Saturday .
Nine people were wounded in the attack .
Authorities in India 's financial hub , Mumbai , also known as Bombay , have urged residents to stay at home Sunday as monsoon rains cause more flooding .
Downpours are hampering rescue efforts and the distribution of emergency supplies to needy residents , as the death toll in Bombay and other parts of Maharashtra state nears one thousand .
Train and air services were disrupted , leaving thousands of passengers stranded at railway stations and airports .
Soldiers , police and rescue workers used bulldozers , cranes and their bare hands to move boulders and rubble in a search for survivors and bodies in areas hit by landslides .
Thousands of Bombay residents took to the streets Saturday to protest against power blackouts and an acute shortage of drinking water .
Two British lawmakers have asked a French oil company to stop doing business in Burma .
The members of parliament , Vera Baird and John Bercow , met with officials from France 's Total Oil Company earlier this week .
Ms. Baird says Total 's business in Burma is propping up the dictatorship .
The French oil giant has not commented on the meeting but Mizzima News quotes a spokeswoman for Mr. Bercow as saying the oil company representatives were not receptive to the lawmakers ' request .
International rights activists have for years pressured corporations not to do business in Burma , so as to avoid supporting the country 's military junta .
Russia 's state-run natural gas monopoly Gazprom has warned Ukraine that it will reduce supplies to that country if Kyiv fails to pay more than $ 1 billion it owes by the end of the month .
A Gazprom statement says Russia has fully complied with its contract on deliveries to Ukraine .
But it says that country 's debt has topped $ 1.3 billion .
The firm says it has informed its European clients of the problem .
In Brussels , the European Commission urged a speedy settlement of the issue .
The announcement triggered memories of a January 2006 price dispute when Gazprom halted natural gas shipments to Ukraine .
That sharply reduced the flow of gas to European Union countries that depend on Russia for a quarter of their supplies .
Russia responded by accusing Ukraine of siphoning off gas being shipped to qestern Europe through Ukrainian pipelines .
TIndia and Pakistan have ended talks on resolving a dispute over Indian plans to build a dam in the disputed Kashmir region without a breakthrough .
Officials made the announcement Friday in New Delhi .
The talks began Tuesday and were scheduled to last two days .
But the delegations extended discussions another day in hopes an agreement would be reached with the extra time .
Islamabad fears that plans to build the dam at Baghliar in Indian-controlled Kashmir could deprive Pakistan of needed water from the Chenab River , which flows through both countries .
Pakistan has called the Indian plan a violation of a 1960 bilateral water-sharing treaty .
The Indian government says the dam will not disrupt water flows into Pakistan .
The World Health Organization says Africa needs around $ 2 billion to fight malaria each year -- 10 times the money that has been pledged by international donors .
The WHO says using that amount of money to prevent and treat malaria in Africa would ultimately save nations around $ 10 billion per year in health costs .
But in 2002 , the latest year figures are available , the agency says the international community spent only $ 200 million to fight malaria around the globe .
It estimates the mosquito-born disease kills more than one million people each year worldwide .
More than 90 percent of those deaths occur in sub-Saharan Africa .
The United States has urged Israel to consider the ramifications of imposing travel restrictions on the West Bank .
A State Department spokesman , Sean McCormick , said Monday Washington supports Israel 's right to defend itself .
He said , however , Israel should consider the long-term goals of peace and security for both the Israeli and Palestinian people .
His comments follow Israel 's decision to suspend security contacts with the Palestinian Authority after Palestinian militant attacks killed three Jewish settlers in the West Bank .
Israeli forces also re-imposed some recently-lifted restrictions on Palestinian movement and set up roadblocks at the entrances to Bethlehem and Hebron .
Top Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat called Sunday 's attacks by the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades " unfortunate , " and designed to sabotage peace talks with Israel .
He also said Israeli travel restrictions will not move the peace process forward .
Kyrgyzstan 's ousted President Askar Akayev says he is prepared to formally resign , but only under certain conditions .
He did not specify .
In an interview on Russian television , Mr. Akayev asked for what he called " relevant legal protections " for himself .
During his 15 years of rule , he was accused of corruption and nepotism .
On Tuesday , he gave several interviews to Russian radio and television channels at his new residence outside Moscow .
Mr. Akayev fled last Thursday when thousands of opposition activists stormed the seat of government and the presidential quarters in Bishkek , alleging that recent parliamentary elections were rigged .
The new interim president , Kurmanbek Bakiyev , has pledged to fight corruption and help victims of the looting that followed last week 's uprising .
Mr. Bakiyev told a gathering of government workers Tuesday that the battle against corruption and nepotism in government is his main goal .
Syria 's State Security court has sentenced two men to death for their part in a bomb attack and gunbattle with police in Damascus last April .
A lawyer for the men said Thursday that Ahmad Shalash and Ezzo al-Hussein were found guilty of taking part in the firefight that killed a policeman and a passer-by , as well as two gunmen in the capital 's diplomatic district .
The attorney said the court also sentenced two other men to forced labor for life , while the remaining 18 defendants received jail terms of between one and 20 years on a variety of charges .
The death sentences must be endorsed by President Bashar al-Assad .
A New York jury has convicted a Yemeni cleric and his assistant of charges of conspiring to fund the Islamic terror groups al-Qaida and Hamas .
Sheik Mohammed Ali Hassan al-Moayad and Mohammed Yahya Zayed were arrested in an FBI operation in Frankfurt , Germany in 2003 .
Undercover agents videotaped them offering to send money to the terror groups .
Their lawyers called them victims of entrapment .
The jury Thursday also found al-Moyad guilty of actually providing support to Hamas , but acquitted him of charges of sending such backing to al-Qaida .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says free trade is the key to reducing poverty and inequality in Latin America .
Speaking Wednesday in Washington , Rice repeated that the United States wants a free trade zone stretching from Canada to the tip of South America .
She spoke at the annual meeting of the Council of the Americas .
Rice said that for democracies to be effective , they must invest in their people , provide security and encourage economic growth and development .
She said the United States wants to work with all Latin American governments that share those democratic ideals .
She also said the U.S. has worked tirelessly for debt relief to the poorest countries .
The president of Uruguay , Tabare Vazquez , told the forum that economic growth must benefit all the citizens of a country , and that countries can not think of development without freedom , peace and democracy .
Israeli security sources say Israel and the Palestinian Authority are trying to work out a deal that would end the army 's offensive in the Gaza Strip in return for stopping militant rocket attacks on Israel .
Security officials say the talks began late Monday through an intermediary , who was not identified .
More than 60 Palestinians and at least five Israelis have been killed since Israel pushed into Gaza last week , after rockets fired by Palestinian militants killed two Israeli children .
Meanwhile , at the United Nations Arab diplomats submitted a draft resolution to the Security Council condemning Israel 's offensive .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said Monday he hopes Israel 's military offensive will be " proportionate " to the threat the country is facing and will end soon .
Pakistani police say a bomb blast in the northwestern city of Peshawar killed a provincial lawmaker and wounded at least six other people .
Police said it appeared that the bomb was hidden in a motorcycle and then remotely detonated when secular party lawmaker Alamzeb Khan passed by in his vehicle .
The attack came shortly after President Barack Obama 's special envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan , Richard Holbrooke , arrived in Peshawar .
Holbrooke is on his first visit to the region to meet with senior Pakistani leaders on new ways of fighting extremism and uprooting terrorist bases .
He met earlier with Pakistan 's President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani in Islamabad .
Holbrooke is scheduled to meet with military leaders and representatives of Pakistan 's civil society and business sectors before he travels later this week to India and Afghanistan .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has upheld the 25-year prison sentence for former Bosnian Croat politician Dario Kordic .
Appeals judges in The Hague Friday confirmed a lower panel 's ruling that Kordic committed crimes against humanity when he ordered the notorious 1993 massacre in the Muslim village of Ahmici in central Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Bosnian Croat troops massacred more than 100 civilians , including women and children .
In another ruling , the justices reduced to six years the 15-year term of former Bosnian Croat military commander Mario Cerkez , finding him not guilty in the Ahmici operation .
A lower court had convicted him of leading an ethnic cleansing campaign that virtually emptied parts of central Bosnia-Herzegovina of its Muslim population .
Cerkez already has served seven years in prison , and was released by the court earlier this month .
Two more witnesses have testified before the special tribunal in Iraq trying former dictator Saddam Hussein and seven of his lieutenants for the murders of more than 140 Shi'ite Muslims 23 years ago .
The televised session began several hours late Wednesday after Saddam refused to attend , complaining of mistreatment .
One of the witnesses , whose identity was concealed behind a curtain , told the court how he was arrested and kept with little food and water for several days .
Saddam and his co-defendants are accused of ordering the crackdown on Dujail residents after a failed assassination attempt on his life when he visited the town in 1982 .
Following the testimony Wednesday , presiding Judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin adjourned the session for two weeks , until December 21 , so that the country can focus on next Thursday 's parliamentary elections .
If found guilty , Saddam could face the death penalty .
The modern circus can trace its roots to ancient Rome where audiences gathered to see chariot races , equestrian shows , and staged battles .
Today 's modern circuses have changed quite a bit with a mix of aerialists , clowns and theater all designed to thrill and entertain audiences .
But these modern shows are not without controversy .
VOA 's Jeff Feuer goes behind the scenes at the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus , the self described " Greatest Show on Earth , " to learn how the performers try to help the communities they come to entertain .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is due to deliver a major policy speech Sunday that is expected to outline his vision for advancing the Middle East peace process .
The Reuters news agency quotes Mr. Netanyahu 's spokesman ( Mark Regev ) as saying the prime minister intends to share a clear view on moving forward on a peace plan with the Palestinians .
Mr. Netanyahu has refused to accept U.S. demands that Israel halt all Jewish settlement construction in the West Bank .
He says building in existing settlements will continue to accommodate what he calls the natural growth of resident families .
The Israeli prime minister also has not endorsed the creation of a Palestinian state .
U.S. President Barack Obama has called for a separate Palestinian state alongside Israel .
Tsunamis are ocean waves generated by a disturbance in the sea floor .
The waves can reach huge heights and speeds while traveling vast distances .
A tsunami is most commonly triggered by an underwater earthquake , but can also be caused by landslides , volcanic eruptions , or even explosions .
Geologists say tsunamis often pick up strength and speed as they travel and they become even more powerful close to shore , where the water is shallower .
Tsunamis can pummel coastlines with walls of water meters high , washing away homes and buildings , and triggering heavy flooding .
Tsunamis can form and travel outwards in all directions from the epicenter of an earthquake , meaning they can affect countries thousands of kilometers apart .
Iranian officials are denying a Canadian newspaper report that the parliament in Tehran is considering a bill that would require non-Muslims to wear colored labels .
The officials say there is no law under consideration that requires colored identification labels for Jews , Christians and Zoroastrians .
On Friday , the National Post newspaper in Canada said the Iranian parliament passed a law Monday that would force non-Muslims to wear colored identification labels .
The Associated Press says it received a copy of the proposed legislation , and that it encourages the wearing of Islamic clothing , but not special attire for religious minorities .
The U.S. State Department and the prime ministers of Canada and Australia expressed concern about the report , and said if true , the measure is abhorrent .
A South Korean court handed Microsoft a setback Tuesday in the software giant 's appeal of an order to change its business practices and pay a $ 34 million fine .
The court rejected Microsoft 's request to set aside an order from the country 's Fair Trade Commission .
Regulators had ordered Microsoft to make it easier for customers to use software from rival companies to play music and movies as well as handling instant messaging .
Microsoft 's ubiquitous operating system gives instructions to most of the world 's desktop computers .
Critics accused the company of abusing its dominant market position to unfairly shut out rivals from the developing market for media and message software .
Microsoft has another appeal pending in this case .
The Democratic U.S. congressman who represents President Bush 's district in Texas has called on the president to sign a $ 64.7 billion bill to fund veterans ' affairs , including health care .
The White House has threatened to veto the bill , which increases spending for veterans by six billion dollars .
Representative Chet Edwards says in the Democrats ' radio address Saturday that the Bush administration and Republican congressional budgets seem to put higher priority on tax cuts for the wealthy than health care benefits for veterans .
Edwards says President Bush backed down from his veto threat when it became clear that Congress could override his veto .
Edwards adds the spending bill honors U.S. troops by providing better health care .
President Bush formed a bipartisan commission to investigate the quality of health care for veterans after deplorable conditions were discovered at a Washington military hospital earlier this year .
American Samoa has a traditional Polynesian economy in which more than 90 % of the land is communally owned .
Economic activity is strongly linked to the US with which American Samoa conducts most of its commerce .
Tuna fishing and tuna processing plants are the backbone of the private sector , with canned tuna the primary export .
The two tuna canneries account for 80 % of employment .
In late September 2009 , an earthquake and the resulting tsunami devastated American Samoa and nearby Samoa , disrupting transportation and power generation , and resulting in about 200 deaths .
The US Federal Emergency Management Agency is overseeing a relief program of nearly $ 25 million .
Transfers from the US Government add substantially to American Samoa 's economic well being .
Attempts by the government to develop a larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa 's remote location , its limited transportation , and its devastating hurricanes .
Tourism is a promising developing sector .
U.S. and Iraqi soldiers battled insurgents for a second day in an Iraqi border town that is believed to be a key entry point for foreign fighters and weapons from Syria .
U.S. commanders said attackers fired small arms and rockets at coalition forces as they conducted house by house searches in Husaybah .
Officials said at least 17 insurgents have been killed and dozens arrested since the operation began Saturday .
Three Marines also were reported injured .
Coalition airstrikes hit what were described as insurgent strongholds in the Euphrates river town .
Many residents fled the town ahead of the offensive , and coalition forces said about 450 people had been granted temporary refuge in the area .
U.S. officials say Husaybah is a key base for foreign fighters and arms from Syria .
Syria has denied giving support to insurgents .
The U.S. military says it is investigating allegations that American soldiers in Afghanistan burned the bodies of two dead Taleban fighters and then used the act to taunt other Islamic militants .
An Australian television network broadcast a video late Wednesday that purportedly showed U.S. soldiers burning the bodies on October 1 , outside a southern village near the former Taleban stronghold of Kandahar .
In the video , two soldiers from what was reported to be a U.S. Army psychological operations unit later read messages calling the Taleban " cowardly dogs " for allowing their fighters to be laid down facing West and burned .
The Muslim faith prohibits cremation .
The messages were reportedly broadcast to the village , which was believed to be harboring Taleban fighters .
The U.S. Central Command said desecration , abuse or inappropriate treatment of enemy combatants violate U.S. policies as well as the Geneva Convention .
A South African film that sets a famous opera in a South African township has won the top prize at the Berlin International Film Festival .
The Xhosa-language U-Carmen eKhayelitsha took home the Golden Bear award .
The film portrays Georges Bizet 's classic opera , Carmen , amid the struggles of life in a poor South African township .
A Chinese film , The Kong Que , or Peacock , won the second place Silver Bear award .
Marc Rothemund was given the Silver Bear for Best Director for Sophie Scholl - Die Letzten Tage , or Sophie Scholl - The Final Days .
Actress Julia Jentsch was honored with a Silver Bear for Best Actress for portraying Sophie Scholl , the real-life war-time resistance fighter who was killed by the Nazis .
The Silver Bear for Best Actor went to Lou Taylor Pucci for his role as an insecure teenager in the U.S. film Thumbsucker .
Azerbaijan - a nation with a majority-Turkic and majority-Muslim population - was briefly independent from 1918 to 1920 ; it regained its independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 .
Despite a 1994 cease-fire , Azerbaijan has yet to resolve its conflict with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh , a primarily Armenian-populated region that Moscow recognized as part of Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s after Armenia and Azerbaijan disputed the status of the territory .
Armenia and Azerbaijan began fighting over the area in 1988 ; the struggle escalated after both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 .
By May 1994 , when a cease-fire took hold , ethnic Armenian forces held not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also seven surrounding provinces in the territory of Azerbaijan .
Corruption in the country is ubiquitous , and the government , which eliminated presidential term limits in a 2009 referendum , has been accused of authoritarianism .
Although the poverty rate has been reduced in recent years due to revenue from oil production , the promise of widespread wealth resulting from the continued development of Azerbaijan 's energy sector remains largely unfulfilled .
The two senior members of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee say they witnessed what they call a " great deal of apprehension " by the Iraqi government to shed sectarian divisions .
Democrat Carl Levin and Republican John Warner have just returned to Washington from a two-day visit to Iraq .
They say the surge of U.S. forces has made parts of Baghdad and its immediate vicinity more secure and given Iraqi politicians more opportunities to compromise .
But the senators say they are not optimistic about the chances for compromise .
They say they believe the politicians are afraid to end sectarian biases and unify .
Senators Levin and Warner said they told Iraqi leaders that the American people and Congress are running out of patience with the political process and that the need to compromise is urgent .
The man who shot Pope John Paul 24 years ago is today mourning the loss of a man whom he considers a brother .
According to his family , Mehmet Ali Agca is grief stricken by the pope 's death .
Agca gravely wounded the pope in a 1981 shooting in St. Peter 's Square .
Two years later , the pope visited the gunman 's prison cell and forgave him .
Since then , Agca 's brother and mother have been received by the pope during several Vatican visits .
Many hail the pope 's reconciliation with his assailant as an example of the Christian principle of forgiveness .
After serving 19 years in an Italian prison for shooting the pope , Agca was extradited in 2000 to Turkey to serve a sentence for an unrelated crime .
A Polish court Thursday upheld an order to extradite to Germany an alleged Israeli intelligence agent suspected in the assassination of a Palestinian militant leader in Dubai .
Israeli citizen Uri Brodsky is accused of forging a German passport used by a member of a team of agents who allegedly killed Hamas commander Mahmoud al-Mabhouh .
Brodsky was arrested in Warsaw in July .
Germany issued the extradition request for Brodsky to face forgery charges .
But the terms of the extradition prevent him from being charged with espionage .
He is expected to be handed over to Germany within 10 days .
Dubai says agents from Israel 's Mossad intelligence agency used forged passports and fake identities of Australian , British , French , German and Irish nationals in an operation to kill Mabhouh .
Israel neither confirms nor denies involvement in the killing .
The United Nations Children 's Fund says more than 210 million children worldwide are working full-time .
In a harsh report released by the British branch of UNICEF Monday , officials say that most of these children between the ages of five and 15 are working as slaves , miners , prostitutes and soldiers .
UNICEF maintains that the only way to end child labor is to end poverty , and is calling on wealthy industrialized nations to raise their development aid to poor countries by $ 50 billion .
The highest rate of child labor is in Africa where 41 percent of the children work full time .
The report says Asia is next with 21 percent , followed by Latin America 's 17 percent .
UNICEF stresses that not all working children are at severe risk , unless they are missing education .
Longwood Gardens in the eastern state of Pennsylvania has been described by many visitors as a horticultural paradise and attracts hundreds of thousands of nature lovers each year .
Over the lush 424 hectares there are more than 40 different gardens and displays .
VOA 's Amitis Darabnia takes us inside the garden 's conservatory , a large indoor facility that is home to 5,500 types of plants .
Natalie Breen narrates .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder is traveling to China and Japan this week to discuss business ties and the European Union 's arms embargo against China .
Mr. Schroeder , who is making his sixth visit to China , is to meet Monday in Beijing with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
He will see President Hu Jintao on Tuesday .
The German chancellor opposes the European Union 's continuing ban on weapons sales to China , imposed after Beijing 's bloody crackdown 15 years ago on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square .
His stand has been criticized by opponents in Germany , and the European Parliament renewed the sanctions last month .
The arms embargo has strained contacts between China and the European Union , which otherwise have good trade and diplomatic relations .
Mr. Schroeder will travel to Tokyo on Wednesday for two days of talks with with Japanese officials .
Christmas is over , but the U.S. holiday shopping season continues , with many Americans returning to stores to take advantage of new sales .
Some stores opened at dawn Monday , offering post-Christmas discounts to lure consumers back and boost profits .
U.S. retailers are hoping to improve on the mediocre sales that followed the Thanksgiving holiday in late November .
Analysts examine store receipts from large retail chains such as Wal-Mart during the holiday shopping season for clues about the strength of the national economy .
Full sales data on the holiday shopping season are not yet available , but preliminary data indicate sales rose over last year , but the increase was slightly less than expected .
Ukrainian officials have confirmed that the deadly H5N1 bird flu strain has been found in more Crimean villages .
The officials say tests carried out in Russia confirm the presence of the strain in 11 different villages .
Authorities have killed more than 50,000 birds in the region , which is a major stopping point for migratory birds .
Ukrainian health authorities also are monitoring more than 500 people in the area for evidence of bird flu .
Despite the confirmation of the growing number of infected birds , Ukrainian Prime Minister Yuri Yekhanurov says he wants to look into lifting the state of emergency imposed to contain the disease .
He says he believes a quarantine should be sufficient .
The H5N1 strain has killed more than 70 people in East Asia since 2003 .
Scientists fear it could mutate and be passed from human to human .
A children 's rights groups in Malawi has called on the government to delay plans for American pop star Madonna to adopt a one-year-old boy .
The group Eye of the Child expressed concern Friday about the adoption process , saying it should not be like buying property .
The group warned it may seek to block a court order this week granting interim approval for the adoption by Madonna and her husband , Guy Ritchie .
Under Malawi law , the couple 's adoption will be reviewed for 18 months before the judge gives his final decision .
Madonna and her husband left the southern African nation Friday , ending a nine-day trip .
But the one-year-old boy , David Banda , remained in the country because of ongoing legal procedures .
Madonna arrived in Malawi last week , in part to inspect an orphan care center she is funding near Lilongwe .
China has urged rival Taiwan to recognize its " one-China " policy as a condition for resuming talks frozen since 1999 .
Official media cited a spokesman for Beijing 's Taiwan Affairs Office Sunday as blaming tensions across the Taiwan Strait on authorities in Taipei who do not recognize the one-China principle .
China said it was responding to a joint declaration by Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian and the island 's opposition leader , James Soong .
Their statement on Thursday vowed that no possibilities would be ruled out in future ties between China and Taiwan .
Mr. Chen also promised not to declare independence , change the country 's official name or promote a referendum on independence that would alter the status quo .
China sees Taiwan as part of its territory and has threatened to invade if it declares independence .
A British magistrate has ordered four suspects linked to activities at suspected terrorism training camps in Britain held in custody for another two weeks .
The suspects were among 12 people arrested last week in major raids across south London .
Police say Yassin Mutegombwa underwent terror training earlier this year at several training camps in the countryside around the British capital .
His brother , Hassan , was charged with fundraising for terrorist activities .
Two other men were charged with possessing information that could be useful to someone preparing to commit acts of terrorism .
Police are still questioning eight other suspects .
They have not been formally charged .
Saudi Arabia 's oil minister predicts oil prices will stay firm for the next four years because of rising demand and limited oil refining capacity .
Speaking at an economic conference Tuesday in the Saudi capital of Riyadh , Minister Ali al-Naimi said obstacles to oil production in many countries will continue to be a problem for the next four years .
The minister said global economic growth will boost demand for oil by about six million barrels a day by 2010 .
He is urging more spending on refineries to compensate for what he called underinvestment during the last two decades .
Meanwhile , crude oil prices steadied around $ 70 a barrel today as traders tracked developments related to Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
Oil experts believe Iran , facing pressure to modify its nuclear program , could cut supplies .
A leading Iranian cleric says his nation will continue to hate America even under a Barack Obama presidency , unless Washington changes what he called its " arrogant " nature .
During Friday prayers in Tehran , Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami said Mr. Obama would suffer the same destiny as U.S. President George Bush , whom he described as hated by the world .
The ayatollah , an ally of supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , said Mr. Obama 's slogan of change was imposed by world conditions and the resistance of the Iranian people .
Iran has sent mixed messages on Mr. Obama 's election victory , with some hardliners expressing caution .
But President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad sent a letter of congratulations to the president-elect , the first time a leader of revolutionary Iran has offered such a message .
Ayatollah Khamenei , who has final say on state matters , has yet to publicly comment on Mr. Obama 's election victory .
Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold Coast and the Togoland trust territory , Ghana in 1957 became the first sub-Saharan country in colonial Africa to gain its independence .
Ghana endured a long series of coups before Lt. Jerry RAWLINGS took power in 1981 and banned political parties .
After approving a new constitution and restoring multiparty politics in 1992 , RAWLINGS won presidential elections in 1992 and 1996 , but was constitutionally prevented from running for a third term in 2000 .
John KUFUOR succeeded him and was reelected in 2004 .
John Atta MILLS took over as head of state in early 2009 .
Mexican soldiers have captured one of the country 's most-wanted drug lords .
Officials say Hector Huerta Rios was arrested Tuesday in the state of Nuevo Leon , which borders Texas in the southwestern United States .
They say he was one of dozens of drug suspects on a most-wanted list published by the Mexican government on Monday .
Authorities have described Huerta Rios as a member of the powerful Beltran Leyva cartel and that he was sought on a murder charge .
Known as " La Burra , " or " the donkey , " he is the third person arrested in less than a week as the government of President Felipe Calderon cracks down on drug cartels .
Word of the arrest Wednesday came shortly before U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrived in Mexico City for talks with President Calderon on the drug issue , trade and other regional matters .
The Serbian parliament has overwhelmingly approved a new constitution that declares Kosovo part of the country , despite ongoing United Nations-mediated talks on the status of the province .
The parliament also voted Saturday to put the draft constitution to a referendum on October 28 and 29 .
Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica said the draft affirms that " Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia . "
Serbia 's troubled Kosovo province has been under United Nations administration since 1999 when NATO bombing halted Belgrade 's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists .
The ethnic Albanians insist on independence , but the Serb minority and Belgrade both want Serbia to retain some control over the area .
The constitution replaces the one drafted by former leader Slobodan Milosevic in 1990 .
It treats Serbia as an independent state , following the breakup of the former Yugoslavia .
A Nigerian government official says gunmen have attacked an oil pipeline operated by a Nigerian subsidiary of Chevron in the country 's restive Niger Delta .
Authorities say it was not immediately known who was responsible for Friday 's attack .
Niger Delta pipelines have been vulnerable to attacks in the past by militants linked to the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta , or MEND .
Hopes for a lasting peace in the Niger Delta are starting to fade as militants are starting to attack oil facilities again after a brief truce .
More than 8,000 militants had given up their weapons under a government amnesty program .
But the hospitalization of Nigerian President Umaru Yar'Adua has delayed government negotiations with the region 's rebels .
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak is in Egypt to discuss a dispute over cross-border weapons smuggling for Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip .
Barak is to hold talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh .
Israel says Cairo has failed to stop the smuggling of weapons through tunnels under Egypt 's border with Gaza .
Israeli authorities say they have handed videotapes to U.S. officials that allegedly show Egyptian border guards helping the weapons smugglers .
Egypt rejects the criticism , and has accused Israel of pressing the United States to withhold military aid from Egypt over the issue .
Speaking to reporters in Jerusalem Wednesday , two U.S. lawmakers said the United States could make aid to Egypt conditional on Cairo doing more to halt arms smuggling .
Republican Senator Arlen Spector and Democratic Congressman Partrick Kennedy are members of appropriations committees that control U.S. foreign aid spending .
Iran says it has developed a new , 900-kilogram guided " smart " bomb that it says can be fired from its aging fleet of U.S.-built F-4 and F-5 fighter jets .
The state-run Islamic Republic News Agency ( IRNA ) made an announcement about the weapon on Wednesday and state-run television reported it Thursday .
The Iranian news agency says the bomb , called Qased or Messenger , is " one of the most powerful , modern and intelligent bombs " in the world .
The news agency says the bomb will be unveiled during Iran 's " Government Week , " which begins Friday .
The International Criminal Court says Uganda is obligated to arrest Joseph Kony , leader of the Lord 's Resistance Army rebel group .
Thursday 's statement from the ICC comes one day after Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni offered protection to Kony if his group stops fighting by the end of July .
The ICC says Uganda 's government referred Kony 's case to the court , and must honor that commitment .
The court has issued arrest warrants for Kony and other LRA leaders , who face charges of crimes against humanity .
LRA rebels are accused of kidnapping thousands of children and using them as fighters or sex slaves .
The group has been fighting in northern Uganda for 20 years .
The fighting has forced some 1.6 million Ugandans to abandon their homes .
Jordan 's King Abdullah has accused Israel of , in his words , " playing with fire " for its policies in East Jerusalem and other occupied territories .
Speaking to foreign ambassadors Thursday , the king said for Mideast peace negotiations to be successful , Israel must stop all " unilateral measures in occupied territories " - particularly the controversial expansion of Jewish settlement construction in the West Bank and East Jerusalem .
The issue of settler expansion is a key stumbling block because Palestinians want East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state .
Although some city officials this week indicated an unofficial freeze on construction in East Jerusalem , Israel 's government has publicly insisted it will not halt expansion .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Monday that he is ready to start indirect talks with Israel , possibly as early as next week .
A top Chinese swimmer has been banned for life for doping only six weeks before the start of the Beijing Olympics .
The Chinese Swimming Association said Friday , it imposed a lifetime ban against star backstroker Ouyang Kunpeng after he failed an out-of-competition drug test on May 1 .
Ouyang 's coach , Feng Shangbao , also received a life-time ban .
The association says it is cracking down on doping violations .
First time offenders usually receive a two-year ban .
Ouyang competed in the 2004 Athens Olympics and won three silver medals at the 2006 Asian Games .
The 25-year-old was considered perhaps Olympic host China 's best chance of winning a backstroke medal this August .
Ouyang is the biggest-name Chinese swimmer to fail a doping test for several years .
Chinese swimmers were involved in a series of doping scandals in the 1990s .
At least 25 insurgents were killed in a battle with U.S. troops in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul Wednesday .
Fifteen American soldiers were wounded in the fighting and one later died at a military hospital .
The U.S. military says the fighting broke out after rebels detonated a car bomb outside a U.S. outpost and opened fire on arriving soldiers .
U.S. forces then called in warplanes which fired missiles at insurgents .
In other developments , the Iraqi government announced Thursday , the arrest of Fadil Hussain Ahmed al-Kurdi a senior member of the al-Qaida linked militant group led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
The arrest of another suspected senior militant commander , Abu Marwan in Mosul , was announced Wednesday .
An American member of the al-Qaida terrorist network has warned President Bush to end U.S. involvement in all Muslim countries or face attacks worse than the September 11 ( 2001 ) assault .
In a video posted on the Internet Tuesday , Adam Gadahn demanded that Mr. Bush remove all U.S. military and spies from Islamic countries , free all Muslims from U.S. prisons and end support for Israel .
Gadahn , who also goes by the name Azzam al-Amriki , warned that if the demands are not met , Americans will experience things " which will make you forget all about the horrors of September 11 , Afghanistan and Iraq . "
Gadahn , who is a convert to Islam , has been indicted in the United States for treason and aiding al-Qaida .
He has appeared on some of the terrorist group 's past videos .
A group of Republican members of the U.S. Congress plans to unveil proposed spending cuts on Wednesday to pay for Hurricane Katrina relief and recovery efforts .
Members of the group have said they want to cut projects from a recently-passed transportation bill , and delay the start of the government 's prescription-drug coverage plan .
The New York Times says the group of congress members may also suggest shutting down the U.S. space agency 's plan to send astronauts back to the Moon .
Congress has already approved more than 62-billion dollars in hurricane relief , with tens of billions more expected as New Orleans and other hurricane-ravaged areas begin to rebuild .
House Majority Leader Tom DeLay has come out against any change to the transportation bill .
But the group of House Republicans says the cuts are needed to avoid increasing the debt burden on future generations .
Thousands of Islamic hard-liners protested in northwestern Pakistan Friday against the U.S. missile strike that targeted al-Qaida leaders in a northern village bordering Afghanistan .
The protesters chanted anti-American slogans and pledged to wage jihad against the United States .
Nationwide demonstrations erupted after missiles reported to be targeting Osama bin Laden 's deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri hit a village in the remote Bajur tribal region on January 13 .
Media reports say the strike killed at least three top al-Qaida leaders , including a top chemical weapons expert .
Meanwhile , just 90 kilometers from the site of the attack , police detained more than 10 people believed to have links with outlawed extremist groups .
Pakistani media reports say several foreign nationals were said to be among the detainees .
In 1816 , the United Provinces of the Rio Plata declared their independence from Spain .
After Bolivia , Paraguay , and Uruguay went their separate ways , the area that remained became Argentina .
The country 's population and culture were heavily shaped by immigrants from throughout Europe , but most particularly Italy and Spain , which provided the largest percentage of newcomers from 1860 to 1930 .
Up until about the mid-20th century , much of Argentina 's history was dominated by periods of internal political conflict between Federalists and Unitarians and between civilian and military factions .
After World War II , an era of Peronist populism and direct and indirect military interference in subsequent governments was followed by a military junta that took power in 1976 .
Democracy returned in 1983 after a failed bid to seize the Falkland ( Malvinas ) Islands by force , and has persisted despite numerous challenges , the most formidable of which was a severe economic crisis in 2001 - 02 that led to violent public protests and the successive resignations of several presidents .
The beginning of traditional Chinese medicine dates back more than 2,000 years .
But it was not until the 17th century A.D. that westerners first heard about those ancient treatments from Jesuit missionaries who traveled to Asia .
Now , an American doctor has traveled to China to study the effectiveness of an unusual source of medicine - toad venom .
VOA 's Melinda Smith reports .
The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has urged the United States to end what it calls torture and inhumane or degrading treatment of detainees at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The resolution was adopted Tuesday in Strasbourg by delegates from the Council 's 46 member states .
It said the United States has betrayed its own highest principles in the way it has prosecuted the war on terror .
U.S. authorities are holding about 500 terrorism suspects at Guantanamo .
Last year , a report by the International Committee of the Red Cross said the U.S. military has intentionally used psychological and sometimes physical coercion on prisoners .
The report said the U.S. treatment of detainees is " tantamount to torture . "
U.S. officials rejected the accusations , saying the prisoners are treated humanely .
A draft report by a European Parliament committee says European Union countries knew about secret prisons for terror suspects the CIA ran on their territories , despite statements to the contrary .
The report also says nearly all European Union member states and many senior EU officials were reluctant to cooperate with the investigation .
An interim report published in June named Poland and Romania as countries that may have allowed the CIA to operate the clandestine prisons on their territories .
It also says others may have violated individual rights by allowing the CIA to use their facilities for secret prisoner transfers .
International human rights groups have expressed concern over the possible torture of the detainees .
U.S. officials , including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and President Bush , have defended the program as legal under international law but stressed that the United States does not permit torture .
The final European Parliament report is expected early next year .
Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych says he will challenge Sunday 's presidential election results in the Supreme Court , charging thousands of violations .
With nearly every vote counted , opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko leads Mr. Yanukovych 52 to 44 percent .
Mr. Yanukovych says he will not recognize the results , saying human rights and the constitution were violated .
He pointed to election reform laws that he says favored his opponent .
Ukrainian election officials have not commented .
But a spokesman for European election monitors says Sunday 's vote brought Ukraine much closer to meeting international standards for a free and fair election .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court ordered Sunday 's re-vote after it threw out the November 21 presidential election , won by Mr. Yanukovych , because of massive fraud .
The U.S. military says three Marines from Camp Pendleton , California are to be tried for allegedly murdering an Iraqi civilian in the Iraqi town of Hamdania .
Authorities said Monday that Corporal Marshall Magincalda , Private First Class John Jodka and Lance Corporal Jerry Shumate will face military trials in the April 26 shooting death of 52-year-old Hashim Ibrahim Awad .
Officials say the defendants also will be charged with conspiracy , housebreaking , and seizing and holding the victim against his will , but will not face the death penalty .
Five other people have also been charged in the case .
The accused Marines are alleged to have attempted to cover up the killing by planting a shovel and assault rifle next to Awad 's body to make it look as if he had been an insurgent planting a roadside bomb .
Google is facing a new challenge in China , but this time the problem is not censorship .
Two state-run companies announced plans Thursday to enter the Internet search business , creating another potential rival to the American-based web search giant .
The new venture by Xinhua news agency and leading telephone carrier China Mobile is expected to focus on mobile searches -- an area in which Google is currently ranked third in China .
Chinese firms Baidu and Easou both have more customers in the fast-growing market .
The announcement comes five weeks after Chinese authorities renewed Google 's license to operate in the country .
The decision had been in doubt after Google moved its standard Internet search functions to Hong Kong to avoid having to cooperate with Chinese censors .
Iraqi officials say violence in and near Baghdad has killed at least three policemen and a government worker .
Police say a car bomb blast hit a police checkpoint Sunday in the town of Karmah , killing the officers , including a lieutenant colonel , and wounding at least three other people .
Authorities also say gunmen killed an anti-corruption government employee on the main road to Baghdad airport .
The highway was considered one of the world 's deadliest during the height of Iraq 's insurgency in 2006 and 2007 .
Insurgents have increasingly targeted Iraqi police and government employees in recent months .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson says recent reports of tainted food and products from China have caused fear among American consumers .
Speaking at a conference of U.S.-China trade relations in Washington Tuesday , Paulson urged China to address safety issues that he said are hurting the " Made in China " brand in the United States .
The U.S. government has recalled a number of Chinese products this year for safety concerns , including children 's toys products that contain dangerous amounts of lead .
Paulson reiterated the U.S. position that China should allow its currency , the yuan , to appreciate at a quicker pace , and to eventually implement a market-determined currency .
The U.S. contends that China keeps the value of the yuan artificially low , giving an advantage to Chinese exporters .
Paulson said currency reforms will help China balance and sustain its rapidly growing economy .
A Wolf found great difficulty in getting at the sheep owing to the vigilance of the shepherd and his dogs .
But one day it found the skin of a sheep that had been flayed and thrown aside , so it put it on over its own pelt and strolled down among the sheep .
The Lamb that belonged to the sheep , whose skin the Wolf was wearing , began to follow the Wolf in the Sheep 's clothing ;
so , leading the Lamb a little apart , he soon made a meal off her , and for some time he succeeded in deceiving the sheep , and enjoying hearty meals .
Appearances are deceptive .
Turkey 's main opposition party has called for a no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan for allegedly encouraging police to use excessive force against May Day protesters .
The Republican People 's Party accuses Mr. Erdogan of violating workers ' rights and endangering public order .
Analysts , however , say the motion is not likely to pass because Mr. Erdogan 's Justice and Development party holds a majority in parliament .
On May 1 , Turkish police used water cannon , tear gas and clubs against protesters trying to reach Istanbul 's Taksim Square to protest government plans to reform social security -- in defiance of a ban on gatherings in the square .
Some protesters stoned police and were reportedly injured in street battles as more than 400 were arrested .
The European Union has called for an investigation into the labor unrest .
Campaigning has begun in Iraq for December 's parliamentary elections , which will put in place the country 's first permanent government since the fall of Saddam Hussein 's regime in 2003 .
Election commission officials say more than 200 coalitions and candidate lists representing Iraq 's many religious and ethnic groups were registered by Friday 's deadline .
Analysts already are predicting that only five of those coalitions are likely to dominate in the race for parliament 's 275 seats .
Those coalitions represent the largest Shi'ite and Kurdish groups , as well as some recent Sunni Arab entrants .
Iraq 's most senior Shi'ite religious authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , says he does not plan to endorse any one ticket , unlike in the January poll when he supported the United Iraqi Alliance .
In other developments , the U.S. military reports the deaths of three more American soldiers Saturday .
Officials in Kenya say three foreign aid workers kidnapped by Somali gunmen in July in northern Kenya have been released .
Authorities say the three were released Saturday and are expected to fly to Nairobi .
After their abduction by gunmen in the Kenyan border town of Mandera , the three were taken into Somalia .
It is not clear whether a ransom was paid for the release of the humanitarian aid workers .
Their nationalities are not immediately known .
Somalia is chaotic after 18 years of internal strife , and foreigners are frequent kidnap targets .
Kidnap victims usually are released unharmed , but in many cases only after a ransom is paid .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has told British troops in Iraq they could return home once Iraqi forces are able to manage their own security .
Mr. Blair spoke Thursday in Basra , during an unannounced trip to British-controlled southern Iraq .
There , he told British soldiers they are helping to secure the country and the world against terrorism .
He did not give a specific timetable for a British withdrawal .
Earlier , Mr. Blair met with U.S. and British military officials to discuss the security situation in Iraq after last week 's legislative election .
Poland 's Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz also made an unannounced appearance in Iraq today , to bring Christmas wishes to 1,400 Polish troops stationed in that country .
Romanian President Traian Basescu visited the country on Wednesday .
The Akamba Handicraft Industry Cooperative is well know for its carvings throughout Kenya and other parts of the world .
Members ' carvings have delighted tourists and other customers since the cooperative 's inception in the late 1960s .
Thousands of carvers produce vivid images of animals , masks , bowls and other objects .
Cathy Majtenyi recently visited the cooperative 's workshops in the coastal town of Mombasa .
Police in Switzerland have arrested a former Russian atomic energy minister wanted by U.S. authorities for money laundering and fraud .
Justice Ministry officials in Bern said Wednesday that police , acting on a U.S. request , detained scientist and former minister Yevgeny Adamov in the Swiss capital on Monday .
Swiss authorities have scheduled an extradition hearing for Wednesday in Bern .
Officials did not confirm news reports that Mr. Adamov was in Switzerland on business related to his daughter 's finances .
U.S. officials say that while holding a senior scientific research position , Mr. Adamov stole about $ 9 million in funds the United States provided Moscow in the 1990s to improve security at nuclear facilities .
Mr. Adamov served as Russia 's atomic energy minister from 1998 to 2001 .
Malawi police and anti-corruption agents have searched the home of former President Bakili Muluzi , currently under investigation for alleged graft .
About 200 supporters of Mr. Muluzi gathered outside his home when police arrived Thursday .
A court on Monday blocked an anti-corruption bureau from questioning Mr. Muluzi over $ 12 million in foreign donor contributions he is accused of pocketing during his term in office .
He served as president of Malawi from 1994 until last year .
Mr. Muluzi 's handpicked successor , President Bingu wa Mutharika , started an anti-corruption campaign and is now himself facing an impeachment attempt by members of parliament who accuse him of misuse of public funds .
South Korean officials say Seoul has rejected a demand from North Korea to return 11 defectors .
The South 's Unification Ministry said Sunday that it has no intention of returning the people , who defected to the South by sea last week , because they expressed their desire to settle in the South .
The ministry said Pyongyang had sent a message through a cross-border military hotline demanding the refugees back .
An official with South Korea 's Joint Chiefs of Staff said last week that the North Koreans crossed into southern waters Thursday evening on a small boat off the peninsula 's east coast .
Defections by sea are rare .
Most North Koreans flee to the South over land through China and Southeast Asia .
More than 16,000 North Koreans have defected to the South since the end of the Korean War in 1953 .
Most of them have come in recent years .
Report says four civilians have been killed in a blast by a landmine planted by suspected Kurdish rebels in the southeastern part of the country Security sources in Turkey say four civilians have been killed in a blast by a landmine planted by suspected Kurdish rebels in the southeastern part of the country .
Turkey 's semi-official Anatolia news agency reported Sunday that the explosion took place after some members of the Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , set fire to an oil well in Batman province .
Clashes between Turkish forces and Kurds have increased since the PKK called off a yearlong cease-fire in June .
The group cited repeated Turkish military attacks for ending the truce .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey for more than 25 years .
Turkey , the United States and the European Union classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
Venezuela 's vice president has rebuffed U.S. criticism of his nation 's plan to purchase thousands of assault rifles from Russia .
He says the weapons are for defense .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel 's statement comes after Wednesday 's comment by U.S. Secretary of Defense Ronald Rumsfeld , who said in Brazil that he does not understand why Venezuela needed to purchase 100,000 AK-47s .
Mr. Rumsfeld said they could pose a threat in the region .
The vice president responded by saying the U.S. defense secretary 's criticisms violate Venezuela 's sovereignty and are part of what he called a " systematic " U.S. campaign against President Hugo Chavez 's government .
Mr. Rumsfeld is in Guatemala , the last leg of a Latin America tour .
He is scheduled to meet President Oscar Berger about military reforms .
The person expected to be the next head of the U.S. Treasury Department says he will work to keep taxes low and U.S. companies competitive .
Henry Paulson made the comments on Tuesday to a Senate committee considering his nomination to be treasury secretary .
He also said he will try to fix problems with U.S. retirement and medical insurance programs Social Security and Medicare .
The former head of the Goldman-Sachs investment firm must be confirmed by the full Senate before he can become Treasury Secretary .
Paulson would take over the Treasury as the United States faces a slowing economy , rising inflation , trade tensions with China , as well as large budget and trade deficits .
Authorities in western Nepal say Maoist rebels have raided a major commercial town , setting off a string of attacks that left at least eight people dead .
Local authorities say four Maoists , two policemen , one soldier and one civilian died in the coordinated attacks late Tuesday in Nepalgunj , a business center near the Indian border .
Witnesses say the rebels hurled grenades on several government buildings , including police posts , then fired automatic weapons .
Officials say security forces countered the attacks and repelled the insurgents .
Maoist rebels have carried out a series of attacks across Nepal since ending their four-month , unilateral cease-fire on January 2 .
They have been fighting to overthrow the constitutional monarchy and replace it with a communist state since 1996 .
At least 12,000 people have died in the fighting .
Authorities in Nepal say one policeman has been killed and four wounded by a bomb that exploded as they were clearing a roadblock set by suspected Maoist rebels .
Authorities say Sunday 's blast struck Monday on the Mahendra highway , about 600 kilometers west of the capital , Kathmandu .
The explosion comes on the second day of a week-long strike called by Maoist rebels to disrupt Wednesday 's national elections .
The rebels have threatened to harm anyone who participates in the elections .
More than 600 candidates have already dropped out .
The rebels and opposition parties oppose the elections , calling them a sham aimed at legitimizing King Gyanendra 's seizure of power a year ago in the constitutional monarchy .
The king says he took absolute rule because the government failed to stop the nearly decade-long Maoist insurgency .
Italy 's defense minister says his country will withdraw 1,000 troops from Iraq by June and the rest of the force by the end of the year .
Antonio Martino told a parliamentary committee Italy will conduct a phased withdrawal of the 2,600 troops it has in southern Iraq , turning over responsibilities to Iraqi forces .
He said Italy 's presence in the area will continue , but it will be largely civilian in nature .
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi , a strong U.S. ally , sent 3,000 peacekeepers to Iraq following the 2003 ouster of Saddam Hussein .
But attacks on Italian troops and civilians sparked increasing calls in Italy for their withdrawal .
Italian authorities began the process late last year as Italy prepared for this April 's parliamentary elections .
Health officials in Nigeria say 46 people are dead and 100 others hospitalized after a cholera outbreak in a southwestern village .
The outbreak began two weeks ago in Kusa , about 50 kilometers from the city of Ibadan , the capital of the state of Oyo .
State government officials say they rushed medical teams to Kusa and surrounding villages and towns .
The outbreak is now under control .
Cholera is a waterborne disease that causes vomiting , diarrhea and dehydration , and can be fatal if not treated quickly .
Oyo state health officials say the outbreak was caused by contaminated water .
The Bush administration has asked the Supreme Court to let it change the detention status of terror suspect Jose Padilla .
Mr. Padilla has been held as what the government calls an " enemy combatant " for more than three years without trial .
The Justice Department now wants to transfer Mr. Padilla from military custody to stand trial in a civilian court .
An appeals court turned down that same request last week , saying it could be seen as an attempt by the government to avoid a review of the concept of " enemy combatants " and indefinite detention .
In its brief to the Supreme Court , the Justice Department said the appeals court decision hurts the administration 's efforts in the war on terror .
Mr. Padilla 's lawyers have repeatedly urged the courts to rein in an administration that , they say , has overstepped its authority .
A tour bus crash in Jordan has killed six people and injured 28 others , including an Iraqi minister .
Security officials say the victims were on a bus that was returning from the Dead Sea to the capital Amman , late Thursday .
Authorities say two British women and four Iraqis were killed .
Iraqi Minister of Science and Technology Raed Fahmi was hospitalized , with injuries .
The bus passengers were taking part in a United Nations Development Program training course for Iraqis .
The two women killed were employees of the training program .
Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir has announced an end to state censorship of the media .
In a decree announced Sunday , Mr. Bashir put an end to a system where censors examine newspapers before publication and sometimes remove articles they deem inappropriate or sensitive .
The practice had persisted despite guarantees of a free press in Sudan 's constitution .
Newspaper editors had earlier signed a new journalistic " ethics code . "
Reuters news agency reports the editors promised to be fair in their reporting , to respect religious and racial differences , and to obey the law .
Sudanese newspapers had sought an end to censorship ahead of national elections scheduled for next April .
The elections are a key part of the 2005 peace deal that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war .
National ( ice ) Hockey League Hall-of-Fame center Mario Lemieux says he will not skate for Canada at the Turin Winter Olympics in February .
The 40-year-old Lemieux says he told Team Canada executive director Wayne Gretzky of his decision a few days ago .
The Olympics begin in Italy on February 10 .
He captained Canada to its first Olympic gold medal in 50 years at the 2002 Games in Salt Lake City .
This will be the third time that National Hockey League players will participate in the Olympics .
Lemieux , who is also part-owner of the Penguins , spent a night in the hospital earlier this week after experiencing an irregular heartbeat during practice .
Lemieux will be examined again by doctors and hopes to return to the ice shortly .
Afghan police and troops backed by tanks have surrounded a high security prison in Kabul after Taleban and al-Qaida inmates armed with makeshift weapons took control of parts of the facility .
The unrest began late Saturday at the Pul-e-Charkhi prison and continued throughout Sunday .
The incident began after prison authorities began issuing new uniforms to inmates .
The uniforms were intended to prevent a repeat of an escape by seven Taleban inmates last month .
There are conflicting reports about casualties .
Officials said more than 20 prisoners were injured , and unconfirmed reports said there were several fatalities .
Afghan government officials said the uprising appears to have started in the prison section which held about 300 Taleban and al-Qaida militants from different countries .
Turkey 's military said Monday that it had carried out an air strike inside northern Iraq overnight against Kurdish separatist rebels .
On Sunday , the military accused Iraq 's Kurdish leaders of tolerating Kurdish rebels who use Iraq as a base to attack Turkish soldiers .
Turkish General Hasan Igsiz said that the local Kurdish administration in northern Iraq refuses to cooperate with the Turkish military .
He said the Turkish military expects the Iraqi Kurds to consider the rebel Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK , a terrorist organization , and to stop supporting it .
The general made the comments as top government and military officials attended the funerals of 15 soldiers killed by PKK rebels Friday .
Baghdad condemned Friday 's deadly attack .
The rebels have been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey for more than two decades .
At least 37,000 people have died in the violence .
An unidentified gunman has killed an Italian Roman Catholic priest in the Turkish city of Trabzon .
Turkish officials say the attacker , described as being in his late teens , killed Andrea Santoro in the courtyard of the 19th Century Santa Maria Church .
Turkish Justice Minister Cemil Cicek condemned the attack and vowed that everything would be done to bring the killer to justice .
Authorities set up road blocks around Trabzon in an effort to find the attacker .
Officials say the motive for the killing is not immediately clear .
They say it could be related to the growing anger in the Muslim world over the publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in Europe .
The United Nations says it is short more than $ 60 million in funding for aid for survivors of the earthquake that struck Indonesia 's Java Island in May .
The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) said in a statement Tuesday it has received about $ 19 million , but needs additional funding for five more months of aid operations .
The agency said it is appealing for funds to provide tents , nutritional supplements for children under five , and medical care for those with lingering injuries .
A U.N. official said supplies for thousands of babies , young children and pregnant women will run out by the end of July unless $ 4.5 million is raised before then .
The Indonesian earthquake killed more than 5,700 people and left 100,000 people homeless .
The U.S. State Department has renewed a travel advisory for U.S. citizens crossing into Mexico , saying there is an " unacceptable " level of violence in the border region .
Officials say the advisory issued Tuesday , was necessary due to the more than 100 violent deaths that have occurred since June and the killing of 18 policemen in the border town of Nuevo Laredo this year .
The advisory acknowledges the Mexican government 's efforts to address the continuing violence , but says Mexico City still needs to do much more to tackle the problem along the 3100 kilometer border .
Hours after the State Department announcement , the Mexican government said it has made a series of efforts to stop the violence and is searching for long-term solutions to the problem .
The U.S. announcement updates a similar notice issued in April .
The women 's super-combined Alpine ski race at the Vancouver Winter Olympics has been postponed , after heavy snow conditions caused training runs on Friday and Saturday to be canceled .
The women had been scheduled to race on Sunday , but the event must be postponed if the skiers do not complete at least one full training run prior to the race .
A new date for the event has not yet been announced .
Officials say heavy overnight rain made the snow " too heavy , " and that they are giving full priority to getting a nearby hill ready for the men 's downhill race , considered a major event in Alpine skiing .
The men 's downhill event is scheduled for Saturday .
When first the Fox saw the Lion he was terribly frightened , and ran away and hid himself in the wood .
Next time however he came near the King of Beasts he stopped at a safe distance and watched him pass by .
The third time they came near one another the Fox went straight up to the Lion and passed the time of day with him , asking him how his family were , and when he should have the pleasure of seeing him again ; then turning his tail , he parted from the Lion without much ceremony .
Familiarity breeds contempt .
Zimbabwe is inviting new bidders to take over its collapsed state steelmaker , after rejecting offers from two foreign companies .
In a statement Wednesday , Zimbabwe 's Industry and Commerce Minister Welshman Ncube said the bidding process is now open .
He said offers must be submitted to the government by September 24 .
In May , Zimbabwe 's government rejected bids by South Africa 's ArcelorMittal and India 's Jindal Steel to take over the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company , or ZISCO .
President Robert Mugabe said those companies were too big .
ZISCO stopped operations in 2008 at the height of Zimbabwe 's economic crisis due to a lack of funding .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber has blown himself up in a crowd of Iraqi army recruits , killing at least 30 people and injuring 35 others at an army base near the Syrian border .
Today 's attack in Tal Afar , was the second in the town in two days .
On Tuesday , a suicide car bomber struck a busy market killing 30 people .
U.S. and Iraqi officials have warned of an increase in violence ahead of Saturday 's constitutional referendum .
Late Tuesday , Iraq 's main Sunni Arab political party - the Iraqi Islamic Party - announced its support for the draft constitution , after Shi'ite and Kurdish negotiators agreed to allow parliament to consider amendments to the constitution .
Parliament will discuss the deal at a special session later Wednesday .
It is unclear if other Sunni groups not involved in the negotiations will reverse their calls for voters to reject the constitution .
Hong Kong lawmakers have voted down a controversial election reform package that lacked a clear deadline for the Chinese territory to become fully democratic .
The government fell short of the six votes needed from the opposition to pass the proposal in the 60-seat legislature Wednesday .
The measure needed 40 votes to pass , but only 34 lawmakers voted in favor of it .
Pro-democracy lawmakers who were against the package say they want a timetable outlining when Hong Kong citizens will be able to vote directly for their leader and lawmakers .
Hong Kong made concessions on Monday , amending the electoral reform package in the hope of winning wider support .
But critics said the amended proposal lacked the crucial timetable .
Earlier this month , tens of thousands of people marched in Hong Kong to demand full democracy .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces have captured three suspected terrorists who have ties to Iran 's Revolution Guards Qods Force .
A military statement said the three were captured during a U.S. raid on a suspected hideout in Baghdad 's Shi'ite majority Shulah neighborhood .
It said four terrorists were killed during the operation .
Officials said the captured individuals are believed to be part of a weapons smuggling ring from Iran that imports deadly " explosively formed penetrators . "
Officials did not reveal the suspects ' nationality .
Earlier , Iraqi police in Baghdad and the southern city Kut said they had recovered 31 bodies of suspected death squad victims .
Also Tuesday , the U.S. military said an Apache helicopter was forced to land after coming under attack in eastern Baghdad .
Military officials said the two crewmembers were safely evacuated and given a routine medical evaluation .
The incident is under investigation .
Music has often been a unifying force among young people , regardless of their political beliefs or economic background .
One U.S. organization is attempting to use the draw of hip hop music to send a powerful message about the American right to vote .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has the story .
THE Members of a body of Socialists rose in insurrection against their Bellamy .
" Why , " said they , " should we be all the time tucking you out with food when you do nothing to tuck us out ? "
So , resolving to take no further action , they went away , and looking backward had the satisfaction to see the Bellamy compelled to sell his own book .
Japan and North Korea met on the sidelines of the six-nation nuclear talks in Beijing Sunday , but made no progress in resolving a bitter dispute over the Cold War abductions of Japanese citizens .
Japanese delegate Kenichiro Sasae told the North 's Kim Kye Gwan that Tokyo continues to demand North Korea send back all remaining abductees and turn over their kidnappers .
North Korea has admitted to abducting 13 Japanese in the 1970s and 1980s .
The North allowed five to return home and has said the other eight are dead .
But Pyongyang has submitted no proof on the fate of the missing abductees , and Japan has expressed strong doubt they are dead .
Mr. Sasae told reporters that Mr. Kim took note of Japan 's demands , and said he would report them to officials in Pyongyang .
Palestinian security officials say Israeli aircraft have fired missiles at a car traveling in the southern Gaza Strip , killing at least one person and wounding three others .
There was no immediate response from Israel .
On Wednesday , four Palestinian militants with the Popular Resistance Committee were killed in an Israeli airstrike on Gaza .
A roadside bomb blast in western Iraq has killed 14 U.S. Marines and their civilian interpreter .
U.S. officials say one Marine was wounded in the attack Wednesday just south of the town of Haditha , near the Syrian border .
Earlier this week , seven U.S. Marines were killed in separate attacks by insurgents in western Iraq .
Elsewhere , unknown assailants have shot and killed an American freelance journalist in the southern city of Basra .
The killing came days after Steven Vincent wrote an opinion piece in the New York Times that criticized British officials for allowing Shiite clerics to take control of Basra and populate the security forces with their followers .
The journalist was kidnapped Tuesday near a hotel in Basra and later killed .
His translator survived .
A senior U.S. official says Syria has improved security along its border with Iraq but adds it must do more to stop Iraqi insurgents crossing illegally .
Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage spoke to reporters in Damascus Sunday after meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
He praised Syria for making real improvements in border security but added " we all need to do more . "
He repeated U.S. claims that members of Saddam Hussein 's ousted regime are " going back and forth from Syria " into Iraq .
Mr. Armitage is on a five-day trip to the region for talks on helping Iraq prepare for January 30 elections .
He visited northern Iraq on Saturday , and will also make stops in Jordan and Turkey .
Cuba has denied U.S. charges it deliberately cut off power to the United States ' diplomatic office Havana .
In a statement carried by the Communist Party daily Granma , the government of President Fidel Castro said it categorically denies that there was any premeditated electricity cuts .
It blamed the loss of electricity on a faulty underground electric circuit .
Officials in Washington say electrical service to the mission was cut on June 5 .
They say the Havana office has been using generators to supply power .
On Monday , a U.S. spokesman said no similar power problems had affected nearby buildings in downtown Havana near the U.S. office .
Cuban authorities have complained in the past about an illuminated sign at the U.S. office that displays messages about democracy and human rights .
Israel 's parliament has approved the state budget , clearing the final legislative hurdle for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's plan to pull Israeli settlements out of the Gaza Strip .
Legislators approved the 2005 budget , 58-to-36 , with one abstention .
Failure to pass the budget by Thursday would have forced Mr. Sharon to resign .
The news came as angry Jewish settlers soon to be evicted from their homes in the Gaza Strip said they will take their fight to the streets , warning of mass protests and possible violence .
Settlers lost their political battle Monday , when Israel 's parliament voted down a proposal to hold a national referendum on the pullout plan .
The settlers have until the last week of July to accept compensation and leave voluntarily .
Otherwise , they will be evicted .
Weather forecasters say Tropical Storm Delta has winds of 104 kilometers per hour and is gaining strength in the central Atlantic .
The storm could become a hurricane later Thursday .
Meteorologists designate storms with winds stronger than 119 kilometers per hour as hurricanes .
Tropical Storm Delta formed late Wednesday .
At last report , it was located about 18,000 kilometers southwest of the Azores Islands , and was not a threat to land .
Delta is the 25th named storm of this record-breaking Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from June 1 to November 30 .
Forecasters began using Greek letters to name the storms after they ran through their usual list of names in English .
Investigators in southern Iraq have recently discovered several mass graves that officials say are believed to contain thousands of victims of Saddam Hussein 's government .
In a report published Friday in the New York Times , Iraqi officials say one grave located near Basra may contain the bodies of as many as 5000 Iraqi soldiers killed after a failed 1991 uprising against Saddam Hussein 's government .
A second grave located near Samawa is believed to contain the bodies of 2000 members of a clan led by Kurdistan Democratic Party ( KDP ) leader Massoud Barzani .
It remains unclear how the bodies ended up in southern Iraq .
Officials say the new graves could be among the largest of the more than 250 mass graves unearthed across Iraq since Saddam 's ouster in 2003 .
Pope John Paul II may resort to a video link to participate in a Good Friday procession later in the day in Rome , depending on his health .
The 84-year-old pontiff , who was twice hospitalized earlier this year , has delegated senior Roman Catholic Church officials all week to take part in celebrations leading up to Easter Sunday .
In February , he required two hospital stays and had a tube inserted in his throat to help with breathing difficulties .
The pontiff also suffers from Parkinson 's disease .
On Friday , he may participate by video link in the Way of the Cross procession , an event in which Catholic clergy and faithful commemorate the death of Jesus .
The pope is expected to deliver his traditional " Urbi et Orbi " blessing on Easter Sunday .
El Salvador has rejected an asylum request by two former Venezuelan police officers under investigation for their role in a 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
In Caracas Friday , El Salvadoran Foreign Minister Francisco Lainez said his government did not approve the two men 's asylum request .
He did not elaborate .
Citing political persecution , the former police officers :
Henry Vivas and Lazaro Forero , requested asylum last Friday after fleeing to the Salvadoran embassy .
Venezuelan prosecutors are investigating the men for their handling of the violent protests in April , 2002 , that left 19 people dead and led to the short-lived ouster of Mr. Chavez .
The government and the opposition blame each other for the shooting deaths .
A hardline Muslim cleric in Pakistan 's volatile Swat Valley said Sunday the government must fulfill its promise to set up strict Islamic courts in the region by March 15 or face protests .
Cleric Sufi Mohammad told reporters in Swat 's main city of Mingora on Sunday that the government has not yet taken any practical steps toward implementing the court system .
Mohammad negotiated a controversial deal with officials from North West Frontier Province to allow Sharia to be imposed in the region that includes Swat Valley .
In exchange , local Taliban militants promised to end their two-year violent insurgency .
Mohammad also called on both sides to release each others prisoners before mid-March .
Also Sunday , Pakistan 's military said a convoy of security forces was attacked by a roadside bomb and small arms fire in Kabal district of Swat , wounding at least one soldier .
The body of an American hostage has been found in Iraq .
Authorities say there were signs that Christian peace activist Tom Fox was beaten before he was killed .
His body was found Thursday with bound hands and gunshot wounds .
He was one of four Western aid workers from the North American-based Christian Peacemaker Teams who were abducted in Iraq in November .
The fate of the others - two Canadians and a Briton - is not known .
They were shown without the American in a videotape aired on Arabic television this week .
Meanwhile , gunmen Saturday in Baghdad killed a journalist for Iraqi television and his driver .
The U.S. military also said coalition forces detained a number of suspected insurgents in raids .
Meanwhile in Washington , President Bush expressed hope about the future of Iraq , saying he is optimistic that Iraqis will overcome the challenges they face .
Egyptian authorities say they will ban the film The Da Vinci Code and confiscate copies of the best-selling novel it is based on because they insult religion .
Culture Minister Farouk Hosni made the announcement in the Egyptian parliament Tuesday .
He spoke after a Coptic Christian lawmaker demanded the book and film be banned for containing offensive material .
The novel has been sold in Arabic translation in Egypt since 2003 .
The film and book have sparked controversy around the world because in the fictional account of Jesus 's life , he married Mary Magdalene and has descendants alive today .
Both Greece and India agreed to show the film after groups in those countries sought a ban .
El Salvador is entering into a free-trade agreement with the United States Wednesday , after demonstrations against it in the country 's capital .
Students and labor union members marched in the streets of San Salvador Tuesday and clashed with police who were trying to contain the crowds .
At least five people were injured .
Critics of the trade pact say it will hurt small businesses and organized labor .
It also requires participating countries to crack down on pirated merchandise , which has angered street vendors .
Guatemala , Costa Rica , Honduras , Nicaragua , and the Dominican Republic are also expected to enter into the pact , known as the Central American Free Trade Agreement , after meeting entrance requirements .
Guatemalans staged anti-CAFTA rallies in Guatemala City last week .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the government is still fighting to restrict the power of billionaire businessmen who made their fortunes after the fall of the Soviet Union .
The Russian leader told a judicial conference Tuesday in Moscow that authorities will continue their efforts against the influence of people he called " oligarchs . "
Mr. Putin has pledged to crackdown on corporate corruption , and the giant Russian oil firm Yukos has been the center of an extensive government probe .
Officials say the company made its fortune through shady business deals after the fall of Communism and owes billions of dollars in back taxes .
Yukos says the efforts are retaliation against its former chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky for his support of the political opposition .
The Kremlin has denied the charges .
Mr. Khodorkovsky has been in prison for more than a year and is on trial on tax evasion and fraud charges .
A United Nations human rights envoy is urging Burma to investigate reports that soldiers killed a number of prison inmates during the cyclone that devastated much of the country last month .
Tomas Ojea Quintana , the U.N. Human Rights Council 's new investigator for Burma , is calling on the military government Friday to respond to allegations that security troops shot and killed prisoners during the cyclone .
He says Burmese authorities should conduct an open investigation to clarify the facts about the so-called " arbitrary killings . "
A Thailand-based rights group says Burmese troops killed 36 prisoners and wounded many others last month in the town of Insein .
The rights group says the soldiers opened fire after cyclone winds tore the roof off the prison and panicked the inmates .
Burmese officials deny there was any case where troops or security guards turned their weapons on prisoners .
For decades Washington 's National Air and Space Museum has been among the city 's top tourist attractions .
It is an impressively large building - located within sight of the U.S. Capitol Building - and operated by the non-profit Smithsonian Institution , which manages the collection .
But in spite of its spacious proportions , the museum had - for years - been able to display only about 10 percent of the Institution 's vast collection .
VOA 's George Dwyer reports another even larger facility was opened four years ago .
Jim Bertel narrates .
India is disputing claims that it has replaced South Africa as the country with the highest tally of people living with HIV / AIDS .
The executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS , Richard Feachem , said in Paris that the AIDS epidemic is out of control in India and alleged no serious steps are being taken to control it .
He conceded that official statistics still show India as second to South Africa , but Mr. Feachem alleged those figures are wrong .
He said the epidemic is growing very rapidly in India .
The director of India 's National AIDS Control Organization strongly disputed those remarks .
He said India is not ignoring the severity of the problem and said efforts to fight the disease are being " enormously scaled up . "
But he said the facts still show that South Africa has 5.3 million infected people as compared to 5.1 million in India .
French rally driver Sebastien Loeb has overcome wet , slippery conditions to take the lead after the first day of the Turkish Rally auto race in Kemer , Turkey .
Loeb took the lead early , but then had trouble with the rocky , slippery course .
The Citroen driver was able to recover and win seven of the eight stages with a total time of 1:54:07 hours .
Italian Gigi Galli in a Misubishi is second , 1:09 back , with Marcus Gronholm of Finland third in a Peugeot .
Loeb leads the overall season standings with 45 points .
Subaru 's Petter Solberg of Norway is tied for second , with Markko Martin of Estonia in a Peugeot 11 points back .
The Turkish rally covers 348 km over three days .
It is the seventh stop on the 16-event World Rally Championship circuit .
The event ends Sunday .
An Indonesian court has sentenced an alleged Muslim militant accused in last year 's Australian embassy bombing to four years in prison .
The court in Jakarta ruled Tuesday that Agus Ahmad helped the perpetrators of the attack by transporting and hiding the explosive material used in the bombing .
Ahmad said he would appeal the verdict , which was less than the five years prosecutors had demanded .
The court could have sentenced him to death .
The September 8 , 2004 suicide bombing was blamed on the al-Qaida-linked regional terror group Jemaah Islamiyah .
At least 10 people were killed in the attack .
Jemaah Islamiyah has also been blamed for the Bali and Marriott bombings , as well as a string of other recent attacks in Indonesia .
The head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has defended the agency against media reports that terrorist suspects are allegedly being tortured in prisons abroad .
In an interview Tuesday with ABC television , CIA Director Porter Goss said the agency 's interrogation techniques do not come close to torture , noting that the practice is " counter-productive . "
He also said there is a lot of disinformation on the subject .
Mr. Goss refused to directly address recent media reports that the CIA allegedly runs secret prisons in eastern Europe for detaining and interrogating terrorist suspects .
U.S. authorities have refused to confirm or deny the reports .
Regarding the search for Osama bin Laden and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , Mr. Goss said the CIA knows a lot more about the two al-Qaida leaders than it is able to say publicly .
Slovenia became the first 2004 European Union entrant to adopt the euro ( on 1 January 2007 ) and has become a model of economic success and stability for the region .
With the highest per capita GDP in Central Europe , Slovenia has excellent infrastructure , a well-educated work force , and a strategic location between the Balkans and Western Europe .
Privatization has lagged since 2002 , and the economy has one of highest levels of state control in the EU .
Structural reforms to improve the business environment have allowed for somewhat greater foreign participation in Slovenia 's economy and have helped to lower unemployment .
In March 2004 , Slovenia became the first transition country to graduate from borrower status to donor partner at the World Bank .
In December 2007 , Slovenia was invited to begin the accession process for joining the OECD .
Despite its economic success , foreign direct investment ( FDI ) in Slovenia has lagged behind the region average , and taxes remain relatively high .
Furthermore , the labor market is often seen as inflexible , and legacy industries are losing sales to more competitive firms in China , India , and elsewhere .
In 2009 , the world recession caused the economy to contract - through falling exports and industrial production - by more than 8 % , and unemployment to rise above 9 % .
Although growth resumed in 2010 , the unemployment rate continued to rise , topping 10 % .
U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama raised nearly twice as much campaign money as his Republican rival John McCain in July .
Senator Obama 's campaign Saturday reported that it raised more than $ 51 million last month .
By contrast , Senator McCain 's campaign raised $ 27 million in July .
McCain's campaign released its latest figure on Friday and noted the number had increased for a fifth consecutive month .
The rival candidates are expected to briefly share a stage Saturday during a forum on faith in the city of Lake Forest , in the west coast state of California .
The candidates are scheduled to give separate talks during the event hosted by the Reverend Rick Warren , author of the book titled " The Purpose-Driven Life "
The event marks Obama 's return to the campaign trail after a week-long vacation in Hawaii .
Liberia is a low income country heavily reliant on foreign assistance for revenue .
Civil war and government mismanagement destroyed much of Liberia 's economy , especially the infrastructure in and around the capital , Monrovia .
Many businesses fled the country , taking capital and expertise with them , but with the conclusion of fighting and the installation of a democratically-elected government in 2006 , several have returned .
Liberia has the distinction of having the highest ratio of direct foreign investment to GDP in the world .
Richly endowed with water , mineral resources , forests , and a climate favorable to agriculture , Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic products , primarily raw timber and rubber and is reviving those sectors .
Local manufacturing , mainly foreign owned , had been small in scope .
President JOHNSON SIRLEAF , a Harvard-trained banker and administrator , has taken steps to reduce corruption , build support from international donors , and encourage private investment .
Embargos on timber and diamond exports have been lifted , opening new sources of revenue for the government and Liberia shipped its first major timber exports to Europe in 2010 .
The country reached its Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative completion point in 2010 and nearly $ 5 billion of international debt was permanently eliminated .
This new status will enable Liberia to establish a sovereign credit rating and issue bonds .
Liberia 's Paris Club creditors agreed to cancel Liberia 's debt as well .
Rebuilding infrastructure and raising incomes will depend on generous financial and technical assistance from donor countries and foreign investment in key sectors , such as infrastructure and power generation .
Somalia 's government has asked the United Nations to investigate reports that last year 's tsunami washed toxic waste onto Somalia 's shores .
Environment Minister Mohamed Osman Maye said Wednesday that waste containers have come ashore along Somalia 's coastline , adding that an increasing number of people have been reporting unusual illnesses .
The U.N. Environment Program said last week that previously dumped containers filled with nuclear , chemical and medical waste broke apart on Somalia 's shores during the tsunami .
The United Nations says foreign companies , many from Europe , began dumping toxic waste on Somalia 's shore in the 1980s , but the practice accelerated after the government collapsed in 1991 .
The eldest daughter of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has been arrested in Washington D.C. after fleeing Chile , where she has been charged with tax evasion .
A Chilean government spokesman says Lucia Pinochet was picked up at a Washington airport on an international arrest warrant issued by a Chilean judge .
He says she apparently traveled by land to neighboring Argentina , before flying to the United States .
The charges she faces are related to a broader investigation of $ 27 million her father allegedly hid in foreign bank accounts .
General Pinochet also has been charged with tax fraud .
His wife and four other adult children were detained Monday on charges relating to the tax fraud probe .
They were freed on bail a day later .
The former dictator also faces human rights charges related to his rule in the mid-1970s .
Diplomats say Chinese and American officials have met in Vienna to resolve a dispute over the wording of a resolution on North Korea 's nuclear program .
The diplomats say China supports mentioning the possible delivery of light-water nuclear reactors to North Korea in a resolution to be submitted to the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency .
They say the United States , which fears such reactors could be used for military purposes , opposes the request .
The diplomats say there is not as yet a resolution to the dispute .
North Korea agreed this month to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for economic aid , energy assistance and security assurances .
But Pyongyang later said it first wants light-water nuclear reactors for civilian energy production .
The next round of six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear program is planned for November .
A Croatian Serb has pleaded innocent to charges that he is among members of a paramilitary group seen in a 1995 video executing Muslims from Srebrenica .
Slobodan Davidovic issued his plea at the start of his trial in the Croatian capital , Zagreb , Thursday .
He also pleaded not guilty to charges that he tortured Croatian soldiers during fighting that broke out when the country declared independence from the former Yugoslavia in 1991 .
The court adjourned further hearings until December .
Croatian authorities arrested him earlier this year after prosecutors at The Hague tribunal showed a videotape of six members of the Serb paramilitary unit , the Scorpions , during the trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic .
The tape showed them executing six Muslims taken from Srebrenica in northeast Bosnia-Herzegovina after Serb forces captured the town 10 years ago .
France has announced it will step up efforts to combat a potential arrival of bird flu in the country , following a recent outbreak of the deadly H5N1 avian flu virus in Russia .
French officials Tuesday said they plan to increase stocks of anti-viral medicines and conduct more health checks at major airports handling international flights .
Authorities said the number of masks in stock would also be increased to 200 million by 2006 .
Russia is seeking to contain the virus now reported in six of the country 's regions .
Experts are concerned that birds migrating from Russia could spread the deadly virus to southern Europe and the Middle East .
At least 60 people in southeast Asia have died from bird flu since 2003 .
Afghan officials say NATO-led forces killed at least 65 Taliban rebels Saturday night in airstrikes near the country 's eastern border with Pakistan .
However , NATO 's International Security Assistance Force could not confirm the number of casualties because of the battle site 's remote location .
The Afghan interior ministry said Sunday that the Taliban rebels were smuggling weapons on horses and two cars in the province of Paktia , when NATO and Afghan forces engaged them and called in air support .
Elsewhere in Paktia , officials say airstrikes killed three Taliban militants who had been planting mines near the provincial capital of Gardez .
More than six thousand people have died in Afghanistan this year in insurgency-related violence .
Iraq 's deputy prime minister is to head a delegation of officials in a visit to Iran .
Iran 's news agency ( IRNA ) reports Barham Saleh is scheduled to arrive in Tehran Tuesday for talks with senior officials aimed at enhancing economic relations between the neighboring nations .
The report said Iraq 's finance and trade ministers will accompany Saleh .
Many in Iraq 's Shi'ite-dominated leadership have close ties with the Islamic regime in mainly Shi'ite Iran .
In July 2005 , former Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari visited Iran , the first official visit since the 2003 war that toppled the regime of Saddam Hussein .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney will visit the Middle East later this month for discussions expected to focus on energy and the need for negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians .
The White House says Cheney will depart for the region on March 16 and make stops in Oman , Saudi Arabia , Israel , the West Bank and Turkey .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino says the visit has been planned for some time and reflects the administration 's commitment to the region .
The trip follows a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice last week to Israel and the West Bank .
The White House spokeswoman says Cheney is scheduled to meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders to seek renewed negotiations between the sides .
In Oman and Saudi Arabia , he is to push for more oil production .
South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun is meeting with British Prime Minister Tony Blair Thursday on the second day of his historic state visit to Britain .
The two men are discussing efforts to revive six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions , as well as the situation in Iraq and bilateral trade .
Mr. Roh opened his Britain visit Wednesday by attending a banquet in his honor at Buckingham Palace .
From London , Mr. Roh will travel to Poland to meet with President Aleksander Kwasniewski and mark the 15-year anniversary of normalized relations between the two countries .
President Roh will then travel to France , where he is scheduled to meet with President Jacques Chirac .
The Indian budget airline , Kingfisher , has signed a $ 1.8 billion deal with the world 's largest commercial aircraft maker , Airbus , to acquire 30 jets .
Kingfisher , owned by India 's largest beer company , expects to start operations in April .
It has contracted to buy 10 single-aisle planes with an option to buy an additional 20 planes from the European aircraft consortium .
The deal comes as economic growth and a series of low-cost airlines such as Kingfisher spurs an increase in air travel in India .
Spain 's anti-terrorism court has convicted 47 people and sentenced them to prison terms for their links to the banned Basque separatist group ETA .
The defendants were sentenced Wednesday in Madrid to a combined 500 years in prison , either for membership in or collaborating with ETA .
Individual prison terms ranged from two to 20 years .
Five other defendants were acquitted .
ETA is blamed for more than 800 deaths in its nearly 40-year fight for creation of an independent Basque state in northeastern Spain and southwestern France .
The government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , facing elections in March , has adopted a hard line against ETA , since militants claimed responsibility for a bombing last December in Madrid that killed two people .
ETA responded to the police crackdown by calling off its 15 month truce in June .
Iraq 's parliamentary speaker has summoned lawmakers to a special meeting of the National Assembly on Monday , the deadline for completing a draft constitution .
Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish negotiators are racing to finish the draft , though officials say no final agreement has been reached yet .
Reuters news agency quotes members of the constitution drafting committee as saying lawmakers will get their first opportunity to review a text of the new charter at Monday 's special assembly session .
Meanwhile , there are reports that a director of the Iraq Central Bank has been kidnapped in Baghdad .
Separately , U.S. officials say five American soldiers have been killed by roadside-bomb explosions since late Friday in Baghdad , Tuz , and at Rutbah , in far western Iraq .
Palestinian medics say an Israeli airstrike has killed two Palestinian gunmen near Israel 's border with the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian radio says the two victims were with a group of Palestinians approaching a border fence near Khan Younis when an Israeli aircraft opened fire early Wednesday evening .
Israel says the men were armed with rifles .
Israel has increased artillery shelling and airstrikes for the past week into Gaza , in a push to curb rocket fire from Palestinian militants into southern Israel .
On Monday , an eight-year-old girl was killed and 13 others were hurt in northern Gaza , when an Israeli artillery shell hit a house .
Chad 's government says gunmen from neighboring Sudan have attacked a village in eastern Chad , killing at least 36 people .
A government statement said gunmen on horseback entered the eastern town of Madayun , in the Wadai region , Monday and began killing people and stealing their livestock .
It said Chadian armed forces fought off the attackers , killing eight gunmen and capturing seven others .
Eastern Chad borders Sudan 's troubled Darfur region , which has been engulfed by two and a half years of war .
The fighting pits rebels against government-backed Arab militia and has sent hundreds of thousands of people fleeing into Chad .
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is in Damascus Tuesday for security talks with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
The United States and Iraq have sought to stop Sunni extremists who have been smuggling weapons and fighters into Iraq through Syria 's border with Iraq 's northern dessert .
The smugglers are fueling attacks in Iraq 's northern city of Mosul , which is considered a Sunni insurgent stronghold .
Last week a U.S. security delegation traveled to Syria for talks on Syrian efforts to help curb the movement of foreign fighters into Iraq .
U.S. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said such infiltration has affected Iraq 's stability .
The Obama administration has been working to improve relations with Syria and advance the Middle East peace process .
The U.S. announced in June it plans to reinstate its ambassador to Syria after a four-year absence .
The island was uninhabited when first settled by the British in 1627 .
Slaves worked the sugar plantations established on the island until 1834 when slavery was abolished .
The economy remained heavily dependent on sugar , rum , and molasses production through most of the 20th century .
The gradual introduction of social and political reforms in the 1940s and 1950s led to complete independence from the UK in 1966 .
In the 1990s , tourism and manufacturing surpassed the sugar industry in economic importance .
Three more countries have reported their first cases of the H5N1 virus , as the deadly strain of bird flu continues to spread .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili declared a state of emergency in the western region where officials found the virus in a wild swan .
He ordered the culling of all domestic birds near a Black Sea village where the swan died .
Bosnia and Niger have also confirmed the presence of H5N1 in dead birds .
Niger is the third African country with an outbreak of bird flu this month , joining Nigeria and Egypt .
Meanwhile , Paris is hosting an international conference on ways to combat the spread of the disease .
Health experts fear the avian virus could mutate into a form that could be passed between humans .
The disease has spread from Asia and killed more than 90 people since late 2003 .
A U.S. diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks says Israeli officials charged extremely high fees to allow goods to enter into Gaza .
The diplomatic cable from 2006 says American companies complained they had to pay fees up to 75 times higher than normal .
The diplomatic cable was published Thursday in Norway 's Aftenposten newspaper .
The alleged corruption took place at the Karni crossing , a major entry point into Gaza .
The document says U.S. companies who made the charges included Coca-Cola , Caterpillar , Phillip Morris , Hewlett Packard and Motorola .
The cable says a Coca-Cola distributor said he was asked to pay as much as $ 3,300 per truckload passing through the Karni crossing .
The document was based on information provided by the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv .
Louisiana 's governor says troops are on their way to New Orleans to restore order to the city as it slips further into chaos .
In a news conference Thursday , Governor Kathleen Blanco said looting and lawlessness will not be tolerated .
The governor added that authorities have been using force as necessary and strictly enforcing the rule of law .
Governor Blanco says 4,000 National Guard troops are deployed to the New Orleans region , and that a total of 12,000 should be in place by Friday .
She says she has requested uniformed troops of any sort , and has asked for no less than 40,000 military personnel .
Governor Blanco adds that police from other U.S. states are arriving in New Orleans to quell civil unrest .
Israeli police say they have arrested two Israeli Arabs , including a Muslim cleric , on suspicion of supporting terror organizations .
Police issued a gag order on details of the case .
But Israeli media have identified the detained men as Sheikh Nazem Abu Salim and Mohammed Zohadi Naarani .
The two are residents of the northern city of Nazareth , and reports say Abu Salim was trying to encourage worshippers at his mosque to join al-Qaida .
The cleric has spoken out against Israel and the United States and is known for his protest against the pope 's visit to Nazareth in 2009 .
Israel has arrested several other of its Arab citizens this year on charges of working with anti-Israeli militant groups , including Hamas and Hezbollah .
Jordan has denied allegations in a Human Rights Watch report that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency secretly sent terror suspects to the country for interrogation .
The Jordanian Minister of State for Information and Communications , Nasser Judeh , says the report is wrong and based on individual allegations .
On Tuesday , New York-based Human Rights Watch said Jordan was the top destination for CIA transfers known as " renditions " between 2001 and 2004 .
The group 's report says at least 14 terror suspects were transferred to Jordan during that time .
It also says Jordan 's intelligence department served as jailer for the CIA , and routinely tortured and mistreated detainees .
Human Rights Watch also says it uncovered eight previously unknown cases of rendition based on information it received from former Jordanian prisoners who were detained with non-Jordanian terror suspects .
After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR , Belarus attained its independence in 1991 .
It has retained closer political and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former Soviet republics .
Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state union on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic integration .
Although Belarus agreed to a framework to carry out the accord , serious implementation has yet to take place .
Since his election in July 1994 as the country 's first president , Aleksandr LUKASHENKO has steadily consolidated his power through authoritarian means .
Government restrictions on freedom of speech and the press , peaceful assembly , and religion remain in place .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has rejected the idea of Israel keeping its large West Bank settlements in any final Middle East peace deal .
Speaking in Gaza City Sunday , Mr. Abbas said " any talk about settlements other than stopping them is unacceptable . "
His comment came after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice indicated that Washington still supports Israeli plans to retain the Jewish settlement blocks .
Ms. Rice told Israeli radio that while the United States " will not prejudice the outcome of final status negotiations ... existing major Israeli population centers will have to be taken into account . "
Meanwhile , Israel has put off plans to transfer a third West Bank town to Palestinian security control .
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz ordered the delay Sunday , saying Palestinians have failed to move against militants in two towns relinquished earlier .
Afghan officials say suspected Taleban insurgents have raided a remote security post in the southern Nimroz province , killing at least one policeman and wounding four others .
Provincial governor Ghulam Dastagir Azad says between 50 and 60 militants armed with machine-guns and rockets were involved in the assault late Wednesday .
He said several of the militants also appeared to have been wounded or killed in the gun battle because pools of blood were found on the ground , along with pieces of clothes and shoes .
Also Wednesday , two members of a pro-government militia were killed in central Ghazni province in a remote-controlled bomb blast blamed on the insurgents .
Meanwhile , an Italian diplomat said two Italian aid workers found dead in their beds in a guarded compound in Kabul Thursday died in their sleep from a faulty gas heater .
German police have arrested three Iraqi men suspected of planning an attack on Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi during his visit to Germany .
A federal prosecutor told reporters Friday the men are suspected members of the Islamic militant group Ansar al-Islam .
They were arrested during raids in the cities of Berlin , Augsberg , and Stuttgart .
Mr. Allawi was in Germany Friday for talks with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder .
A European Union report says most member states are not doing enough to monitor racist incidents and ethnic discrimination in their societies .
The EU 's racism monitoring agency says the lack of monitoring often results in discrimination against ethnic minorities going unnoticed by the authorities .
The agency says only two EU countries , Britain and Finland , have a comprehensive system to report racist violence and collect details about the victims .
The report found that five members were unable to provide any official data on racial abuse , including Greece , Spain , Italy , Cyprus and Malta .
The agency says statistics are essential to understanding the root causes of racism and xenophobia , and it urged EU leaders to do more to combat the problems .
Fire has destroyed a historic church in Chicago , Illinois , that has been called the birthplace of gospel music .
Firefighters were called Friday afternoon to Pilgrim Baptist Church .
A neighbor said construction workers were on the church 's roof when the fire started , but a fire department spokesman said authorities did not know how the blaze started .
There were no immediate reports of injuries .
The building was constructed in 1890 as a synagogue .
Pilgrim Baptist Church took it over in 1922 .
Under the leadership of its choir director , Thomas Dorsey , the church was a center for the development of gospel music .
Among the artists who sang at the church was Mahalia Jackson .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has again called for reconciliation talks with Taleban militants .
In remarks to people gathered at the main Shi'ite mosque in Kabul Monday , Mr. Karzai referred to what he called " the enemy who wants our destruction and sheds our blood . "
He did not refer to the Taleban by name .
The Afghan leader has made similar offers of talks before , but Taleban leaders have rebuffed them .
Last year saw a dramatic increase in Taleban militant attacks against U.S. , NATO and Afghan forces in Afghanistan .
At least four thousand people were killed in insurgency-related violence .
U.S. and NATO military leaders in the country are warning of a new Taleban offensive in the coming months , as the snows thaw and mountain roads become more accessible .
Blades Of Glory continues to keep the competition on ice .
The skating comedy retained the U.S. box office championship , taking in $ 23 million over the Easter weekend .
Its 10-day total now stands at $ 68.4 million .
Occupying second place was Disney 's animated comedy Meet The Robinsons , at $ 17 million .
Ice Cube 's family comedy Are We Done Yet ? opened in third place , taking in $ 15 million .
Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez ' Grindhouse , a much-publicized homage to 1970s exploitation movies , debuted a disappointing fourth with $ 11.6 million .
Media tracker Paul Dergarabedian says the film 's three-hour running time limited its total screenings .
Palestinian militants have fired rockets at Israel after Israeli troops killed a senior Islamic Jihad commander .
The rockets caused no casualties .
A short time later Israeli forces fired artillery at the area in Gaza the militants used to launch the rockets .
Islamic Jihad had vowed to avenge the killing earlier Monday of Luay Saadi and his deputy in the West Bank .
Israel says Mr. Saadi was behind several attacks that have killed at least 10 Israelis since February .
Meanwhile , the Palestinian Authority says it plans to immediately disarm members of another militant group in the West Bank , the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade .
The chief of police in the West Bank , Taher Zaid , says most members of the militant group will be trained to join Palestinian security forces .
But leading al-Aqsa commanders say they doubt their men will turn in their weapons until Israel leaves the West Bank .
The Spanish football club Sevilla has won its first European football title by beating Middlesbrough of England , 4-0 , in the UEFA Cup final in Eindhoven , the Netherlands .
Enzo Maresca scored two goals for the Spaniards , in the 78th and 84th minutes .
Luis Fabiano opened the scoring in the 27th minute , sending the ball in off the post after taking a cross from Daniel .
Frédéric Kanouté scored the fourth goal when he tapped in a rebound just one minute from time .
Middlesbrough could not find the offense it needed to rebound from the deficit .
The match was the first of two Anglo-Spanish finals .
Barcelona faces Arsenal next Wednesday in the Champions ' League final at the Stade de France outside Paris .
THE ASS and the Fox , having entered into partnership together for their mutual protection , went out into the forest to hunt .
They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion .
The Fox , seeing imminent danger , approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox .
Then , upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured , the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it .
The Lion , seeing that the Ass was secured , immediately clutched the Fox , and attacked the Ass at his leisure .
Never trust your enemy
The designers of the first private manned rocket to burst into space have received a $ 10 million prize created to promote space tourism .
SpaceShipOne designer Burt Rutan accepted the Ansari X Prize money and a trophy on behalf of his team Saturday during an awards ceremony in the U.S. state of Missouri .
To win the money , SpaceShipOne had to blast off into space twice in a two-week period and fly at least 100 kilometers above Earth .
The spacecraft made its flights in late September and early October , lifting off from California 's Mojave desert .
The vehicle had to carry a pilot and weight equivalent to two passengers .
SpaceShipOne was financed with more than $ 20 million from Paul Allen , a co-founder of the Microsoft Corporation .
Iran has rejected as " unfounded " U.S. accusations linking President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to the 1979 take-over of the U.S. embassy in Tehran .
A foreign ministry spokesman said late Friday that Mr. Ahmadinejad played no role in the embassy seizure .
He added that U.S. comments just days before Mr. Ahmadinejad takes office stem from what he termed " U.S. disillusionment with Iran 's independent policies . "
On Thursday , a White House spokesman said officials believe Mr. Ahmadinejad was a leader in the student movement that organized the embassy takeover .
Some former U.S. hostages insist the president-elect was one of the actual hostage-takers , but a CIA analysis of an old photo at the U.S. embassy has concluded the man pictured holding hostages is not Mr. Ahmadinejad .
Opposition leaders in Ivory Coast have rejected an African Union recommendation that President Laurent Gbagbo remain in power after his mandate expires later this month .
Members of Ivory Coast 's opposition bloc , known as the G7 , are demanding a transitional government to replace Mr. Gbagbo .
Last week , the African Union announced its recommendation that President Gbagbo stay in office for another 12 months after his mandate expires at the end of October .
Mr. Gbagbo says he has the constitutional right to stay in power if elections can not be organized .
Under a recent peace deal , elections were set for October 30 .
They were postponed after the government and rebels failed to implement key steps to organize the vote .
Despite several accords , Ivory Coast remains divided between rebels in the north and the southern-based government .
Croatia is entering the final stage of its bid to join the European Union , resuming talks Wednesday that had been stalled over a border dispute with Slovenia .
The two sides opened negotiations on the last three of 35 chapters in the application process Wednesday .
The final talks cover competition law , judicial reform and foreign policy .
Croatia 's accession talks were interrupted in late 2008 when EU member Slovenia blocked further negotiations until a decades-long maritime border deal was in place granting Slovenia direct access to the Adriatic Sea .
The obstacle was removed earlier this month when Slovenians passed a referendum to let an international panel settle the issue , which could force Croatia to give up some territory .
Croatian authorities have said an EU accession treaty could be signed in early 2011 .
The maritime border dispute began when Croatia and Slovenia gained independence during the 1991 breakup of the former Yugoslavia .
India 's former foreign minister accused of skimming money from the Iraqi oil-for-food program has resigned from the cabinet , saying he does not want to give the opposition an excuse to stall parliament .
Natwar Singh 's decision came after a weeklong blocking of parliamentary proceedings by the opposition , demanding that he step down .
Mr. Singh , a minister without portfolio , announced his resignation Tuesday , a day after he met party chief Sonia Gandhi and spoke by telephone to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , who is in Moscow .
He said he is resigning even though he is innocent .
Natwar Singh was dropped as foreign minister last month over allegations he and the Congress party profited from the United Nations program aimed at helping Iraqi civilians cope with the impact of international sanctions against the regime of Saddam Hussein .
A court in Houston , Texas in the southwestern United States , has convicted three U.S. citizens of involvement in a human trafficking ring responsible for the deaths of 19 people in 2003 .
Victor Sanchez Rodriguez was found guilty of 17 of the 20 smuggling charges against him .
His wife , Emma Rodriguez , was convicted of 14 smuggling counts , and her half-sister , Rosa Sarrata Gonzalez , was convicted of one smuggling count .
The three were participants in an operation carrying more than 70 illegal immigrants in a tractor-trailer rig from southern Texas , near the border with Mexico , to Houston .
Seventeen people died during the trip of dehydration , overheating and suffocation .
Two more died later .
Eleven other people have been indicted in the case .
The Houston Chronicle reports sentencing is set for May .
Hundreds of Libyan opposition members have concluded a two-day conference in London to discuss strategies for ousting Moammar Gadhafi from power .
The opposition leaders are calling on the United Nations to push for regime change in Libya and for the restoration of Libya 's constitution .
The leaders said Sunday they intend to form a provisional government that would last no longer than one year , then launch a democratic constitutional government built on cultural pluralism and a rotating presidency .
The United States re-established limited diplomatic ties with Libya last year after Colonel Gadhafi announced Tripoli would abandon its chemical and nuclear weapons programs .
Colonel Gadhafi seized power during a 1969 political coup .
President Bush has left the Summit of the Americas in Mar del Plata , Argentina , as discussions over the summit 's final statement continue hours longer than planned .
Mr. Bush left Saturday for his next stop in Brazil , having stayed three hours extra as the talks dragged on .
Members of the U.S. delegation have stayed behind in Mar del Plata to continue negotiations .
The summit 's final statement is expected to discuss poverty and employment .
But delegates have clashed over inclusion of a call to renew talks on an inter-American free trade region supported by Mr. Bush .
On the streets of Mar del Plata , city workers are cleaning up debris from anti-Bush protests that turned violent Friday .
Police arrested more than 60 people , but said there were no major injuries .
The U.S. rap star Snoop Dogg and five of his associates have been arrested in Britain after a disturbance at London 's Heathrow Airport .
Police told British media that the musician , who was born with the name Calvin Broadus , and members of his entourage were being held on charges of " violent disorder and affray . "
The group was waiting for a flight to South Africa , where Snoop Dogg was to perform in a concert Thursday , when it was denied access to a first-class lounge at the airport .
Police said members of the group later threw bottles of whisky in a duty-free store and scuffled with police .
Snoop Dogg is a former member of a street gang the Crips , from Southern California , and many of his songs reflect the gritty life on the streets .
Negotiators from the Sudanese government and two Darfur rebel groups are expected in Nigeria 's capital , Abuja , for a new round of peace talks to begin on Thursday .
The African Union will mediate the talks , aimed at ending a two-and-a-half-year conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Several previous rounds have failed .
The last talks in June stalled over rebel demands that Chad not be allowed to help mediate the negotiations .
A ceasefire agreement has also been repeatedly violated .
Last week , the United Nations said there have been many reports in Darfur of banditry , looting , alleged attacks on villages and continued fighting .
The conflict pits rebels of African descent against pro-government Arab militiamen .
An estimated 180,000 people have been killed and 2 million others have been displaced .
Burmese democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi is calling on citizens in her country to work toward national reconciliation in the new year .
In a statement Friday , she asked the Burmese people to " struggle together with new strengths , new force and new words " in 2011 .
The 65-year-old advocate for democratic reforms in Burma was released after more than seven years of house arrest on November 13 .
That was just days after the country 's military rulers claimed an overwhelming victory in Burma 's widely criticized first election in two decades .
She said in the statement that Burmese people need to establish political and social networks to achieve " national reconciliation as well as a truly united spirit . "
The United States on Thursday again called for Burma 's leaders to free the more than 2,200 political prisoners in the country and engage in talks to promote democracy .
Pakistan has reiterated its support for resolving the row over Iran 's controversial nuclear program through dialogue , saying it opposes the use of force against its western neighbor .
Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursheed Mehmood Kasuri says he hopes talks between Iran and the European Union will lead to , in his words , " an amicable solution . "
He spoke during a meeting with his visiting Iranian counterpart , Manouchehr Mottaki .
Talks between Iran and EU negotiators aimed at persuading Tehran to stop enriching uranium collapsed in August but will resume later this month .
Pakistan has been one of few nations to defend Iran 's nuclear program from international criticism , saying all nations have a right to nuclear power .
Mr. Mottaki , who arrived in Pakistan Wednesday for a two-day visit , says he and Mr. Kasuri also discussed expanding economic cooperation and a proposed gas pipeline project .
The United Nations is praising the use of military helicopters to drop food and rescue survivors in tsunami-ravaged Indonesia , saying the aircraft are " worth their weight in gold . "
U.N. relief coordinator Jan Egeland said Sunday , U.S. , Indonesian and Australian military helicopters are ferrying out food and supplies to remote areas of western Aceh province that ground crews can not reach .
Mr. Egeland said the latest figures show 1.8 million people are in need of food assistance - with the need greatest in Indonesia , Sri Lanka , the Maldives and India .
He said last week 's tsunami and the massive underwater earthquake that triggered it has affected millions in Asia and Africa .
Some 127,000 people are known dead .
Aid is being rushed to the region , but the U.N. official stressed that bottlenecks and a lack of infrastructure remain a challenge .
Iran 's elite security forces are warning opposition supporters not to hold anti-government demonstrations during a government-sponsored rally on Friday .
Opposition activists have called for protests coinciding with the Quds Day rallies , the annual event that expresses support for Palestinians and condemns Israel .
Opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi has said he plans to attend and activists have encouraged people to capitalize on the large gatherings to protest the disputed re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
On Thursday , Iranian state media published a message from the elite Revolutionary Guards promising to crack down on any protests during the rallies .
Following Iran 's disputed June 12 elections , rights groups said hundreds of people were detained in clashes with security forces during post-election , anti-government demonstrations .
Since then , authorities have held public trials of the accused and tried to marginalize moderate officials within the government .
Microsoft founder Bill Gates and the government of Norway have pledged more than $ 1 billion for a campaign to vaccinate most of the world 's poorest children .
Donors say they hope the $ 750 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and a pledge from Norway for $ 290 million spurs other foundations and governments to invest in The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization .
The alliance hopes to immunize 90 percent of the world 's children by 2015 .
The group estimates it will cost $ 8 to $ 12 billion .
The World Health Organization estimates two million people die each year from diseases that are easily prevented by basic vaccines .
South Africa 's president says his government will look into new reports on Zimbabwe 's elections , which detail serious irregularities .
Thabo Mbeki told parliament Thursday the government would study the reports from both Zimbabwe 's main opposition party ( MDC ) and the independent Zimbabwe Electoral Support Network .
He says his government will then address whatever issues are raised .
On Wednesday , Mr. Mbeki 's government said it was satisfied Zimbabwe 's parliamentary elections , won by the ruling party , reflected the will of the people .
Observers from South Africa endorsed the poll following the March 31 election .
And a delegation of monitors from the Southern African Development Community also said the vote was credible .
The United States and Britain have said the elections were not free or fair .
A strong earthquake under the ocean off Indonesia 's Sumatra and Nias islands has caused some panic but no damage or injuries .
The U.S. Geological Survey gave a preliminary estimate of the strength of the Tuesday morning quake at 6.7 on the Richter scale , and said the epicenter was close to the island of Nias .
The quake did not cause a tsunami .
An earthquake in late March killed more than 900 people on Nias .
Both Sumatra and Nias have experienced countless earthquakes since a massive tsunami-producing quake on December 26 .
The latest official death toll from that tragedy stands at some 176,000 people killed - 128,000 of them in Indonesia .
Nearly 50,000 people are still listed as missing , but most of them are feared dead .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says a mortar attack at a base in eastern Paktika province has killed two U.S. military personnel , with eight others wounded .
A military statement says the mortar landed in the base near Shkin , near the Pakistani border , as the victims were preparing to unload supplies from a Chinook helicopter .
Also Wednesday , U.S.-led coalition forces arrested five suspected Taleban insurgents in connection with an attack on an oil tanker that killed two Pakistanis .
Police in the Afghan border town of Spin Boldak said the five suspects were apprehended one day after the two Pakistani nationals were killed in the same area .
The Taleban and their militant allies have stepped up attacks in recent months , often hitting soft targets associated with coalition forces and the Afghan government of President Hamid Karzai .
French police detained nine people Monday in the Paris region and nearby Normandy in a crackdown on a group suspected of planning terror attacks in France .
At least seven of the suspects are believed to have links to an Algerian insurgency movement , the Salafist Group for Call and Combat , known as the GSPC , which has declared allegiance to al-Qaida .
French President Jacques Chirac has offered his support for Croatia 's aspirations for European Union membership .
Mr. Chirac told visiting Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sander that the schedule for membership talks should be respected .
Croatia 's EU membership negotiations began in October after an eight-month delay due to the country 's failure to capture a top suspect wanted by the United Nations war crimes tribunal .
Mr. Chirac says Croatia 's rapid economic development and progress in reforms justified the start of the country 's membership negotiations with the bloc .
Ukraine 's new leaders have stopped short of rejecting membership in a new Moscow-led economic bloc of four ex-Soviet republics , but say the plan could hurt their European Union aspirations .
After meetings Monday with Russia 's visiting foreign minister , Sergei Lavrov , Ukraine 's President Viktor Yuschenko and foreign minister , Boris Tarsyuk , made clear the importance of strategic relations with their giant eastern neighbor .
But they also emphasized their commitment to Ukraine 's becoming a full member of the EU and of NATO .
Mr. Yushchenko 's predecessor , Leonid Kuchma , agreed to Ukraine 's joining the new bloc , which includes Russia , Belarus and Kazakhstan , but Kiev 's participation is now in doubt under its new pro-Western president .
Mr. Yuschenko is to meet EU leaders in Brussels this week .
EU officials say they are not ready to offer Ukraine membership , but have proposed a plan to strengthen ties .
Lebanese politicians are condemning Friday 's bomb blast in a Christian neighborhood of Beirut as an attempt to sow sectarian strife in the formerly war-torn country .
In Beirut , a string of officials voiced their anger , while at the United Nations summit in New York , Prime Minister Fouad Siniora said the Lebanese people are resolute in preventing such attempts from destroying their spirit .
One person was killed and more than 20 others injured in the bomb blast late Friday , which took place on a residential street .
Lebanon has suffered a series of bombings since the massive explosion in February that killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and 20 other people .
Syria is widely accused of involvement in his killing , and Friday 's explosion comes days before U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis is to return to Damascus to interview several Syrian officials about the assassination .
Afghanistan 's attorney general has asked the country 's Supreme Court to annul results from the recent parliamentary elections , because of extensive fraud and corruption .
A spokesman for Attorney General Mohammad Ishaq Alako , Deputy Attorney General Rahmatullah Nazari , says a letter has been sent to the Supreme Court asking it to annul the results and issue sentences against 14 top officials who organized the vote and oversaw fraud investigations .
Both the Electoral Complaints Commission and the country 's Independent Election Commission have rejected the call as unlawful , saying no individual or organization has the authority to invalidate election results .
The election commission disqualified nearly one quarter of the votes cast in the election , and disqualified 24 winning candidates after receiving more than 5,000 complaints of irregularities .
North Korean leader Kim Jong-il has met with a high-ranking Chinese delegation that delivered a message of congratulations from Chinese President President Hu Jintao .
The North 's state media reported Sunday that the Chinese delegation was led by Deputy Prime Minister Wu Yi .
China 's state media said she expressed the Chinese president 's congratulatory wishes on the 60th anniversary of the founding of the North 's Workers ' Party of Korea .
Xinhua said the Chinese delegation is in the North for a three-day goodwill visit .
Neither Chinese nor North Korean media mentioned the nuclear crisis in their reports .
North Korea agreed last month during six-nation talks in Beijing to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for economic aid , energy assistance and security assurances .
But Pyongyang later said it first wants light-water nuclear reactors for civilian energy production .
The fifth round of six-nation talks is scheduled for early next month in Beijing .
European Union observers are preparing to monitor Palestinian parliamentary elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , despite recent kidnappings of foreigners .
Chief EU observer Veronique De Keyser says her group is making regular security assessments and taking all necessary precautions .
She says the EU 's commitment must be met , adding that it would a " bad sign " not to send monitors to Gaza , where several foreign aid workers were kidnapped and released unharmed in recent weeks .
Ms. De Keyser spoke to reporters in Jerusalem Monday as more than 30 EU observers headed to Palestinian cities and towns .
Campaigning for the January 25 elections begins Tuesday .
But several senior Palestinian leaders are calling for a delay in the vote , citing dire law-and-order conditions and Israel 's refusal to permit voting in East Jerusalem .
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap , and much admiring the bird , set him free .
The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to his deliverer , for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which was not safe , he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a bundle from his head .
When the Peasant rose in pursuit , the Eagle let the bundle fall again .
Taking it up , the man returned to the same place , to find that the wall under which he had been sitting had fallen to pieces ; and he marveled at the service rendered him by the Eagle .
Iraqi officials say two bomb attacks in the capital Saturday have killed at least eight people .
The first bomb struck a crowded market , killing at least three people .
Police say the device was meant to target police .
Hours later , a car bomb in downtown Baghdad killed five people .
Also Saturday , the U.S. military announced that an American soldier was killed by a bomb Friday during a patrol west of Kirkuk .
It said one soldier was wounded .
The U.S. military says it has carried out a series of raids following Wednesday 's killing of terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , in hopes of dismantling his al-Qaida in Iraq network .
The Jordanian-born Zarqawi was said to have personally taken part in beheadings of hostages and other killings .
He was killed when the U.S. military dropped two 227-kilogram bombs on his safe house near Baquba , northeast of Baghdad .
A former U.S. Senate majority leader says he never agreed to let the Bush administration eavesdrop , without court approval , on phone calls that cross U.S. borders .
Democrat Tom Daschle contradicts President Bush , who says Congress granted him the authority in legislation authorizing the use of force against al-Qaida after the September 11 , 2001 terror attacks .
In an opinion piece in the Washington Post Friday , Mr. Daschle says lawmakers granted the president extra powers to pursue al Qaida , but specifically turned down a White House request to use those powers inside the United States .
President Bush last week confirmed he secretly authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop in the United States .
He called it a vital tool for national security that was within his legal power .
Georgia 's breakaway region of Abkhazia remains tense - a day after supporters of presidential candidate Sergei Bagapsh seized regional government offices .
Crowds stormed the buildings in the capital , Sukhumi , Friday .
Several people were injured , and one woman died of a gunshot wound .
Mr. Bagapsh blames the shooting on guards , while Abkhaz officials say Mr. Bagapsh 's supporters were responsible .
The region 's high court last month declared Mr. Bagapsh the winner of a disputed October presidential election , but then reversed itself and ordered a new vote .
His supporters have rejected fresh elections .
Russia said Friday it will act if necessary to protect its interests .
Tbilisi then accused Moscow of interfering in Georgia 's internal affairs - a charge Moscow rejects .
Abkhaz President Vladislav Ardzinba described the events Friday in the pro-Russian enclave as an attempted coup .
Abkhazia broke away from Georgia in the 1990s .
Nostalgia is like a grammar lesson .
You find the present tense and the past perfect .
Pakistani police reported more deaths Saturday from poisoned bootleg liquor in the port city of Karachi , raising the death toll to at least 40 .
Several people are still being treated at a local hospital after consuming the toxic batch of liquor late Thursday .
Liquor is banned for Muslims in Pakistan , although a few shops are allowed to sell alcohol to non-Muslims .
But some Muslims drink alcohol , resorting to black-market supplies smuggled from abroad or homemade liquor that is sometimes tainted .
Police say they have arrested several men in a series of raids for illegally preparing and selling the homemade alcohol .
In October of last year , at least 12 people died after drinking contaminated liquor in the eastern city of Multan .
Authorities in Morocco and Turkey have arrested two men blamed for unleashing a computer worm that disrupted networks across the United States last week .
The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation said Friday it had received news of the arrests of 18-year-old Farid Essebar in Morocco and 21-year-old Atilla Ekici in Turkey .
An FBI official says Mr. Essebar is suspecting of creating the worm and selling it to Mr. Ekici .
The two are also blamed for a similar computer attack earlier this year .
The worm shut down computers at several U.S. media companies and other firms last week .
U.S. officials said they worked closely with authorities in the two countries and the maker of the affected computer systems , Microsoft , to locate the men .
The FBI says the two suspects face prosecution in their native countries .
Representatives of the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations have appealed for the release of kidnapped American journalist Jill Carroll .
In Baghdad Saturday , an official with the influential Islamic group called on Carroll 's abductors to release her unharmed .
In an earlier statement , the group said the 28-year-old journalist has a well-documented record of objective reporting and respect for both the Iraqi people and Arab-Islamic culture .
There still is no word on the journalist 's fate , following a threat by her kidnappers to execute her Friday unless all eight female detainees in American custody in Iraq were released .
Meanwhile , a militant group has kidnapped the son of a senior Iraqi Defense Ministry official .
In a videotape shown on al-Arabiya ( Saturday ) , kidnappers threatened to kill the son of Brigadier-General Sabah Abd al-Karim unless Iraqi security forces stop cooperating with U.S.-led coalition troops in Iraq .
A detainee is escorted to interrogation by US military guards at Camp X-Ray at Guantanamo Bay US Naval Base
The Pentagon says seven detainees at the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba have been released to their home countries .
A statement said Wednesday that three of the detainees were released after a tribunal determined that they were not enemy combatants .
One was sent back to Sudan , another to Saudi Arabia and the third to Jordan .
Four others cleared under different types of administrative review were released to Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan .
An eighth detainee , a Moroccan , has been transferred to Spain , where he is accused of having links to an al-Qaida cell .
My grandfather worked in a blacksmith shop when he was a boy , and he used to tell me how he had toughened himself up so he could stand the rigors of blacksmithing .
He said he would stand outside behind the house and , with a 5 pound potato sack in each hand , extend his arms straight out to his sides and hold them there as long as he could .
After a while he tried 10 pound potato sacks , then 20 pound potato sacks and finally he got to where he could lift a 50 pound potato sack in each hand and hold his arms straight out for five full minutes ! Eventually , he even started putting potatoes in the sacks .
The United States Army has charged the former head of the interrogation center at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq for his alleged involvement in the abuse of detainees .
The Army announced Friday that Lt. Col. Steven L. Jordan would face 12 counts , including cruelty and maltreatment , dereliction of duty , and interfering with the abuse investigation .
Colonel Jordan is the highest-ranking officer to face criminal charges stemming from Abu Ghraib .
He ran the interrogation center at the prison in late 2003 , a time when U.S. military leaders wanted information from detainees to combat the rising Iraqi insurgency .
So far , only a handful of low-ranking soldiers have been prosecuted for abuses at Abu Ghraib .
Officers above Jordan 's rank have been reprimanded and relieved of command , but none has faced criminal charges .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has assembled world leaders , activists and academics in New York to address the issues of poverty , global warning and conflict .
Opening Thursday , the Clinton Global Initiative 's conference coincides with the Millennium summit of the United Nations General Assembly .
Mr. Clinton says the focus of the three-day conference is to secure concrete pledges from leaders to address significant problems , not to simply talk about them .
Organizers say the conference is different from other forums because participants are required to pledge to address issues in concrete ways and to report back on their progress .
Expected attendees or speakers include British Prime Minister Tony Blair , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and Israel 's Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres .
Israel has charged three Arabs with spying for Syria and planning to kidnap a Syrian pilot who defected to Israel .
Two of the men are from a northern Druze village , Majdal Shams , in the Golan Heights , near the Syrian border .
The other is an Israeli citizen .
An indictment says the men passed details and photographs of Israeli army installations to a Syrian agent .
It also says they gathered information on a Syrian pilot who defected to Israel in 1989 .
Prosecutors allege the men drew up a plan to kidnap the pilot .
Israeli media say Druze residents recently rioted when investigators searched one of the suspects ' home .
Hurricane Gustav is moving across the Caribbean toward southwestern Haiti , where it is expected to make landfall later Tuesday .
U.S. forecasters say the storm 's winds strengthened on Tuesday morning to nearly 150 kilometers per hour .
Gustav is expected to produce up to 38 centimeters of rain in some areas , possibly causing dangerous flash floods and mudslides .
The National Hurricane Center in Miami upgraded Gustav to a hurricane early Tuesday .
A hurricane warning is in effect for parts of Haiti and the Dominican Republic , where Tropical Storm Fay claimed an estimated 50 lives less than two weeks ago .
Fay has weakened a tropical depression , causing heavy rains in the eastern United States .
Forecasters expect Hurricane Gustav to pass just south or east of Cuba on Wednesday .
Cuba and Jamaica have issued hurricane watches .
U.S. stock markets are up about one percent following Friday 's congressional approval of a controversial measure to aid the battered financial sector .
European markets gained between two and three percent by the close of trading .
It was a different story in Asia , where Japan 's benchmark Nikkei index fell two percent , and Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index was down nearly three percent .
Israeli officials say Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will undergo a medical procedure Thursday to close a tiny hole in his heart discovered during treatment for a minor stroke suffered last month .
Doctors describe the tiny hole as a minor birth defect and say it is in the partition between the upper chambers of Mr. Sharon 's heart .
The procedure , known as cardiac catheterization , involves inserting a catheter through a blood vessel into the heart , where an umbrella-like device will plug the hole .
Doctors say they expect Mr. Sharon will make a full recovery .
Mr. Sharon returned to work on December 25 , one week after his emergency hospitalization .
Doctors say the stroke has not caused any permanent damage .
Al-Qaida 's deputy leader has criticized the West for publishing cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad as a terrorist .
In a video broadcast Saturday on the Arab television channel al-Jazeera , Ayman al-Zawahri called the cartoons an insult and urged an economic boycott against nations where they have been published .
He also called on Hamas , which won Palestinian elections in January , to reject peace deals between the Palestinian Authority and Israel .
The videotape was the second by al-Zawahri aired by al-Jazeera in six weeks .
A tape that aired in January called on President Bush to admit defeat in Iraq and Afghanistan .
President Bush has praised relations with Afghanistan , India , and Pakistan in a radio address to the United States while he is traveling in South Asia .
Mr. Bush said he witnessed an " incredible transformation " in Afghanistan , from a country ruled by the cruel Taleban regime to one in which women have more freedom , children are going to school , and terror camps have been shut down .
Mr. Bush also praised an agreement made with India during his trip , to share civilian nuclear energy technology in exchange for India bringing its nuclear programs in line with the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) .
And he said Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf made the right decision to fight terror after September 11 , 2001 , despite several attempts on his life .
Mr. Bush said his trip is helping to lay the foundations of peace and prosperity for generations to come .
Israeli Prime Minister-designate Tzipi Livni says she will form a new coalition government by Sunday or call for elections .
Livni announced the decision Thursday following talks with her centrist Kadima party .
On Monday , President Shimon Peres granted Livni 's request for a two-week extension to negotiate a deal that would keep the existing ruling coalition intact .
Livni reached a deal with the dovish Labor Party .
But she has been unable to strike an agreement to keep the ultra-Orthodox Shas party on board , a move many observers , including political correspondent Gil Hoffman , say is key .
Polls indicate that if early elections are held , then Kadima would likely lose out to the hardline Likud party , denying Livni the chance to become Israel 's first female prime minister in more than 30 years .
President Bush is to visit the western U.S. state of Arizona Monday to give a speech on illegal immigration .
White House officials say Mr. Bush 's speech in Tucson will focus on border security , enforcement and a temporary worker program .
He will travel to El~Paso , Texas on Tuesday to discuss the same issues .
In January , the president proposed a temporary worker program that would match foreign workers with U.S. employers when no Americans can be found to fill the jobs .
The immigrants would be allowed to work in the United States for up to six years .
Supporters of the proposal say it will create incentives for legal immigration and boost the economy .
Critics of the program say it is a form of amnesty for people who enter the country illegally .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have launched the second operation targeting insurgents in western Anbar province in the past two days .
About 1,000 troops began Operation Dagger Saturday in a remote lake region northwest of Baghdad .
Debris from US airstrike targeting insurgents in Karabilah , June 12 , 2005 U.S. military officials say the operation is aimed at finding hidden weapon stashes and insurgent camps .
This the same area where U.S. and Iraqi forces killed a large number of insurgents in March .
Earlier , military officials said about 50 insurgents have been killed 100 captured near the town of Karabilah in a separate operation launched Friday .
Troops found four Iraqi hostages beaten and chained to a wall in a bunker .
Spain has begun a trial for 24 suspected al-Qaida members , including three accused of helping plan the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States .
The defendants appeared in a Madrid court Friday , behind bulletproof glass .
More than 100 armed police are providing security at a remodeled courtroom , specially-built for trials with multiple defendants .
Among the accused is the suspected leader of the Spanish al-Qaida cell - Syrian-born Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas .
He allegedly organized a meeting of terror suspects in Spain during which details of the September 11 attacks were finalized .
Prosecutors are asking that the leader of the group be sentenced to more than 60,000 years in prison if convicted .
President Bush has signed legislation that will require screening of all air and sea cargo , and will provide more money to cities deemed to be at high risk of a terrorist attack .
After signing the bill Friday and meeting with his advisers on counter-terrorism , Mr. Bush said his homeland security and counter-terrorism teams are doing everything they can to protect the country from what he called a " dangerous enemy . "
The new measures carry out some recommendations made by the independent commission that investigated the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
Those include a grant of $ 4 billion to be given to high-risk cities to upgrade transit security .
They also mandate screening of all U.S.-bound cargo on planes and ships within the next five years .
An international delegation that monitored the elections in Liberia is calling on all concerned to act responsibly to ensure the post-war peace process stays on track .
The delegation , led by former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and former Benin President Nicephore Soglo , also urged the international community to continue its assistance .
It added that extensive voter education will be needed if a runoff election is required .
The delegation said a major problem in Tuesday 's poll was widespread lack of voter understanding of the process of casting ballots .
It also cited voter ignorance of the nature of choice among the candidates .
The joint delegation from the former U.S. president 's Carter Center and the National Democratic Institute includes representatives from 14 nations in Africa , Europe and North America .
In Afghanistan , a huge explosion in a convoy hauling munitions and weapons to a remote location for destruction has killed two German soldiers and at least five Afghans .
Afghan officials say the explosion in the northern province of Takhar Saturday was accidental .
They say a third German soldier and a sixth Afghan were wounded .
The Associated Press quotes Afghan President Hamid Karzai as saying he was deeply saddened by the incident .
The German soldiers were part of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan .
The German detachment of about two thousand troops provides security and collects weapons and ammunition from disarmed militias for disposal .
ISAF has about 8,000 troops in Afghanistan .
Wall Street enjoyed an upswing Thursday , despite mixed economic news concerning consumer spending and jobless claims .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained nearly 190 points to close at 13010 .
The surge in the stock markets comes as investors await a key report .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has more .
The leaders of Nigeria and the Congo Republic emerged from all-night talks with Sudan 's rebel leaders Sunday , with no real progress made on resolving the conflict in Darfur .
After meeting all night in the Nigerian capital Abuja , President Olusegun Obasanjo and Congo Republic 's President Denis Sassou Nguesso pledged to hold further talks with the Sudanese groups .
The talks are aimed at ending more than three years of civil war before the April 30 deadline set by the African Union for a peace settlement .
Peace talks between Sudan 's government and rebel groups have gone on for more than 18 months without any breakthroughs .
The fighting , involving rebels , government forces and Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militias in Darfur , has killed about 180,000 people and has left another two million homeless .
Police in Sri Lanka say 300 prisoners took advantage of Sunday 's massive earthquake to make their escape from a high-security jail .
Authorities say the inmates fled after a tidal wave caused by the quake destroyed their prison , a 16th century Dutch-built fort in a southern coastal town Matara .
Reuters news agency reports a similar prison break in Indonesia 's Aceh province .
Police there say 200 prisoners fled after a tsunami destroyed the walls of the facility .
Chilean authorities have freed on bail the wife and four adult children of former dictator Augusto Pinochet , a day after they were detained on tax evasion charges .
Lucia Hiriart and her children were arrested Monday as part of an investigation into millions of dollars kept in bank accounts abroad .
A fifth child , daughter Lucia , is also charged , but her whereabouts are unknown .
If located , she will be prohibited from leaving the country .
General Pinochet has been indicted for tax fraud for allegedly hiding $ 27 million in foreign bank accounts .
The former dictator also faces human rights charges related to his rule in the mid-1970s .
His lawyers say he is not healthy enough to stand trial , but court-ordered doctors say he is fit enough to do so .
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi says the West has not properly compensated Libya for dismantling its weapons of mass destruction programs , so countries like Iran and North Korea will not follow Libya 's example .
Colonel Gadhafi made the remark in an interview with the BBC Friday , the day Libya marked the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the country 's Jamahiriyah , or " State of the Masses , " the political system created by Gadhafi that in theory allows the people to exercise power through popular committees .
In a speech marking the anniversary , the Libyan leader said his country opened up to the outside world after years of isolation and sanctions .
Colonel Gadhafi was for decades considered an international pariah for his alleged backing of terrorism and pursuing nuclear weapons .
But he later rejected terrorism and in 2003 abandoned Libya 's nuclear weapons program , which led to the normalization of ties with the West .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai says he has fired two " high-ranking " Afghan officials who were spying for other countries , and warns he would not spare anyone who engages in such activity .
Mr. Karzai made the disclosure at a lunch meeting with newly sworn-in parliament members , and did not name the dismissed officials nor indicate when he took the action He also did not name the other countries involved .
Mr. Karzai said he had strong evidence against the two officials .
But he said even if he had minor evidence , he would have punished them .
He said anyone found spying for foreign countries will be shown on television , and put on trial .
Mr. Karzai has led Afghanistan since the Taleban were ousted in late 2001 .
He won a presidential election in October 2004 .
And now the Taleban are waging an insurgency against his administration .
Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819 .
It joined the Malaysian Federation in 1963 but separated two years later and became independent .
Singapore subsequently became one of the world 's most prosperous countries with strong international trading links ( its port is one of the world 's busiest in terms of tonnage handled ) and with per capita GDP equal to that of the leading nations of Western Europe .
Yemen is a low income country that is highly dependent on declining oil resources for revenue .
Petroleum accounts for roughly 25 % of GDP and 70 % of government revenue .
Yemen has tried to counter the effects of its declining oil resources by diversifying its economy through an economic reform program initiated in 2006 that is designed to bolster non-oil sectors of the economy and foreign investment .
In October 2009 , Yemen exported its first liquefied natural gas as part of this diversification effort .
In January 2010 , the international community established the Friends of Yemen group that aims to support Yemen 's efforts towards economic and political reform , and in August 2010 the IMF approved a three-year $ 370 million program to further this effort .
Despite these ambitious endeavors , Yemen continues to face difficult long term challenges , including declining water resources and a high population growth rate .
Leading Muslim groups attending an anti-terrorism conference in northern India have denounced terrorism as " un-Islamic . "
The declaration was made by thousands of scholars and clerics Monday at the country 's top Islamic seminary - the 150-year-old Darul-Uloom Deoband in Uttar Pradesh .
Their statement said any terrorist activity targeting innocent people contradicts Islam 's concept of peace .
It described Islam as a religion of mercy , and it condemned all kinds of oppression , violence and terrorism .
However , the statement also called on the Indian government to ensure that members of the Muslim community are not harassed .
It said that whenever there is a terrorist attack , attempts are made to link the attack to Muslims who have studied in madrassas or religious schools .
The declaration also said many innocent Muslims are spending their lives behind bars , having been falsely accused of involvement in acts of terror .
Hundreds of mourners gathered in an eastern Sri Lankan city to pay final respects to a top Tamil Tiger rebel , who was gunned down earlier this week .
The government intensified security in the city of Batticaloa to avert any outbreak of violence during Thursday 's funeral ceremony .
Regional Tamil Tiger political chief , E. Kousalyan along with five aides were killed in an ambush Monday night on a jungle road near Batticaloa .
The rebels blame government-backed paramilitary forces for the attack and warned that it could disrupt post-tsunami reconstruction and efforts to resume peace talks .
The Sri Lankan government denied any involvement , condemned the killings and urged all sides to work for the peace process .
Rebel sources in Mexico say a female leader of the Zapatista rebel movement has died .
Zapatista leader Subcomandante Marcos Friday announced the death of Comandante Ramona , saying Mexico had lost a fighter and the Zapatistas had lost a piece of their heart .
The announcement came during a stop in Chiapas , six days into the leader 's nationwide tour .
The nature of Comandante Ramona 's death was not immediately clear , but it was rumored that she had cancer or a kidney disease .
She had once received a kidney transplant .
The mysterious female leader was a Tzotzil Indian and a promoter of women 's rights .
She was a longtime member of the Zapatista movement and appeared in public wearing a black ski mask .
On January 1 , Subcomandante Marcos emerged from his jungle hideout to begin a six-month nationwide tour in a bid to influence this year 's presidential elections .
China says it has received assurances from a senior official of Iraq 's interim government that authorities in Baghdad will make every possible effort to free eight Chinese construction workers abducted by insurgents in Iraq .
Chinese state media say Iraq 's Deputy President Rowsch Nuri Shaways expressed regret over the kidnappings during talks with Chinese officials in Beijing .
Arab television channel Al-Jazeera broadcast a video showing the hostages Tuesday , in which their abductors threatened to kill the men unless China " clarifies its role in Iraq . "
Chinese officials say the men are workers who went to Iraq on their own initiative .
The official Xinhua news agency said China is working with mediators to win the release of the hostages .
Venezuela has signed a $ 1.3 billion agreement with China to purchase 18 oil tankers to facilitate the south American country 's expanding Asian market .
A spokesman for Venezuela 's state-run oil company says the agreement also calls for China to help build shipyards in Venezuela and train its workers .
The oil company says it hopes to expand its total fleet of tankers to at least 42 ships Venezuelan officials say the nation currently sells about 15 percent of its oil and other petroleum products to China and would like to increase that to about 45 percent by 2012 .
Venezuela is among the world 's largest oil exporters .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has said he wants to increase trade with China - and rely less on the United States as a customer for its oil .
The death toll from violence in Sudan following the death of former rebel leader and Vice President John Garang has surpassed 100 .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says 84 people have been killed in the capital city of Khartoum since Monday , when southern Sudanese began rioting after learning of Mr. Garang 's death in a helicopter crash Saturday .
Another 18 people have been killed in the southern city of Juba , Mr. Garang 's home base .
The violence has forced scores of northern Muslim Arabs to flee Juba .
Mr. Garang led the mostly Christian and animist south in a 21-year-old civil war against the Muslim-dominated north .
He was sworn in as vice president just three weeks ago under a peace accord reached earlier this year .
The United States is urging Khartoum to increase efforts to end the violence .
World oil prices eased downward Friday but U.S. retail gasoline prices hit fresh record highs , which cut travel on the Independence Day holiday .
A barrel of oil for future delivery cost $ 144 in electronic trading in New York , a decline of about $ 2 from Thursday 's record high price .
A majority of analysts interviewed by the Bloomberg financial news service say oil prices are likely to rise next week because of concerns that Mideast tensions will continue and the dollar might weaken .
Oil is priced in dollars , so a lower value tends to raise the price of oil .
Soaring oil prices have pushed U.S. retail gasoline prices to a series of record highs .
The latest survey puts the average price at nearly $ 1.08 a liter ( $ 4.10 a gallon ) .
That is an increase of 30 cents a liter in the past year .
Iraq 's two main political coalitions broke off talks Monday aimed at ending a five-month-long political deadlock .
A spokeswoman for the Sunni-backed Iraqiya alliance , Maysoon al-Damaluji , said the group ended negotiations .
She claimed the Shi'ite-dominated State of Law alliance labeled them as a Sunni bloc rather than cross-sectarian .
The fight over ethnic political standing comes as a group of activist organizations filed a lawsuit Monday against parliament speaker Fouad Massum .
The groups are accusing him of violating the constitution by ordering the newly elected parliament , which convened 14 Jun , to remain in an open-ended session until a political agreement is reached .
Former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's Iraqiya alliance won the poll with 91 seats in the 7 March vote , while Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's State of Law alliance captured 89 .
Both groups were far short of the 163-seat majority needed to govern .
The head of Iran 's nuclear agency says the Islamic Republic must be allowed to produce nuclear fuel domestically .
Gholamreza Aghazadeh 's remark to reporters Saturday in Tehran effectively rules out a compromise proposal diplomats say the Europeans were considering offering Iran .
He spoke in Tehran after meeting with Russian envoy Igor Ivanov .
The proposal , which the United States has denied being a part of , would permit Tehran to carry out an early stage of nuclear fuel production , but move uranium enrichment to Russia .
Both Russian and Iranian officials have refused to confirm whether Mr. Ivanov presented any new proposal to Iran .
Western nations are concerned that Iran wants to enrich uranium to high levels for use as fuel for nuclear weapons .
Iran denies this , saying it seeks only to produce electricity .
Italian police have arrested 36 people during protests in Rome ahead of the summit of leaders of the world 's eight major industrial countries .
Hooded demonstrators clashed with police and set fires on streets near one of the capital 's universities Tuesday .
Police said citizens of France , Germany and Poland were among those arrested .
Separately Tuesday , police in the town of L'Aquila seized clubs from five French protesters close to where the summit is being held .
They were not arrested .
About 15,000 police officers have been deployed to L'Aquila to provide security during the three-day gathering , beginning Wednesday .
The G8 summit was originally scheduled to take place on an island , La Maddalena , off the Sardinian coast .
Officials moved it to L'Aquila after an April earthquake shook the area and killed almost 300 people .
Italian officials said the transfer was aimed at giving the area an economic boost .
A Ukrainian court has temporarily suspended the results of this month 's presidential election pending review of an appeal filed by the losing candidate .
The Supreme Administrative Court released a statement Wednesday saying the Central Election Commission ruling that declared Viktor Yanukovych the winner had been put on hold .
Defeated Ukrainian presidential candidate Yulia Tymoshenko has filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn the results of the February 7 vote .
Ms. Tymoshenko , Ukraine 's current prime minister , says the election was rigged .
She has refused to concede defeat .
The prime minister claims vote-rigging robbed her of 1 million votes in the runoff election .
Final results show her losing by nearly 888,000 votes .
Tuesday , Ukraine 's parliament set February 25 for the swearing in of President-elect Yanukovych .
A majority of 238 lawmakers in the 450-seat parliament endorsed the date Tuesday .
But factions loyal to Ms. Tymoshenko boycotted the vote .
Old mathematicians never die ; they just lose some of their functions .
A leftist Colombian guerrilla leader has been killed in a clash with military troops in the South American country .
Officials say Humberto Valbuena , a unit commander for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , was killed Monday in the remote jungles of Caqueta state .
At least three other rebels were killed in the clash .
Colombia 's long-running conflict pits FARC and a smaller leftist rebel group against government forces and right-wing paramilitary fighters .
Thousands of people are killed annually in the conflict .
The United Nations Security Council has decided to send a special mission to Serbia 's breakaway Kosovo province before voting on its future status .
British Ambassador John Perry , who is the current president of the council , said representatives of 15 member nations will visit Kosovo later this month .
Perry said Belgium 's ambassador , Johan Verbeke , will head the U.N. delegation to Pristina .
Russian U.N. envoy Vitaly Churkin last month proposed the mission before the council considers mediator Martti Ahtisaari 's proposal for Kosovo .
The Ahtisaari plan envisions internationally supervised independence for the Serbian province , which Belgrade adamantly rejects .
Kosovo has been under U.N. administration since 1999 , after NATO air raids halted Belgrade 's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists .
Ruled by the Al Thani family since the mid-1800s , Qatar transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural gas revenues .
During the late 1980s and early 1990s , the Qatari economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum revenues by the Amir , who had ruled the country since 1972 .
His son , the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani , overthrew him in a bloodless coup in 1995 .
In 2001 , Qatar resolved its longstanding border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia .
As of 2007 , oil and natural gas revenues had enabled Qatar to attain the second-highest per capita income in the world .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon is appealing for clean drinking water , canned food and other emergency aid for the storm-damaged Gulf state of Veracruz .
Hurricane Karl tore across the Mexico 's Yucatan peninsula late last week as a strong Category 3 storm , killing at least 14 people and leaving thousands homeless .
The president visited Veracruz Monday , touring flooded villages and meeting with civil defense officials and storm victims .
Looting has been reported in flood-stricken areas .
Local newspapers and television have shown pictures of people running from stores with bags of food and cases of beer .
Police have arrested 11 people .
Peruvian election officials say the narrow gap between two candidates vying for the second spot on the ballot for the country 's run-off presidential election has tightened further .
Officials said Sunday former center-left president Alan Garcia leads pro-business congresswoman Lourdes Flores by less than 96,000 votes , with nearly 90 percent of the votes counted .
Garcia led Flores by nearly 110,000 votes on Saturday .
The surge by Flores is attributed to heavy support among Peruvians living abroad whose votes are apparently starting to impact the election tally .
Since no candidate received half of the vote in the April 9 election , a presidential run-off will be held 30 days after the final results are announced .
Either Garcia or Flores will take on nationalist Ollanta Humala , who took 31 percent of the vote .
For the last four weeks a team led by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has been trying to broker a deal between the Kenyan government of President Mwai Kibaki and the opposition led by Raila Odinga .
The negotiations have concentrated on a power sharing agreement and a transitional arrangement leading to new elections .
A recent report by the international crisis group says three complimentary sets of issues must be addressed to finalize a detailed power sharing agreement .
Francois Grignon is director of the Africa program of the ICG .
In a telephone interview to discuss the issues at stake , he told VOA reporter Akwei Thompson the opposition would demonstrate a stronger political will to tackle the task of legal and constitutional reform needed during the transition period because … ” the electoral dispute left them out , the losers … . ”
Israeli police say Prime Minister Ehud Olmert will be questioned by police this week for a second time in a corruption investigation against him .
Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said Tuesday that the anti-fraud unit will question Mr. Olmert Friday .
Police asked the prime minister questions for more than an hour on May 2 .
Prosecutors accuse Mr. Olmert of taking hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash from U.S. businessman Morris Talansky before he became prime minister .
Police are trying to determine whether Mr. Olmert gave any favors to the businessman for the payments .
Mr. Olmert and the businessman say the funds were legal contributions to the Israeli leader 's election campaigns .
The prime minister says he will resign if indicted .
The top U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency says momentum is growing among IAEA delegates to report Iran to the United Nations Security Council for its suspect nuclear activities .
U.S. Ambassador Gregory Schulte told IAEA diplomats meeting in Vienna that the time has come to act against Iran .
Washington and the European Union accuse Tehran of secret efforts to develop atomic weapons .
Iran denies the charges .
The Security Council can impose sanctions if it finds Tehran has not complied with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
Western efforts to rally support for referral from the 35-member IAEA board is opposed by Russia , China and a host of non-aligned member-nations that want European-Iranian negotiations to continue .
Earlier Wednesday , Iranian Vice President Gholamreza Aghazadeh said Tehran has no intention of abandoning the non-proliferation treaty , despite warnings Tuesday by a top Iranian negotiator .
Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad says Syria and Israel can live side-by-side in peace , accepting each other 's existence .
In an interview broadcast Monday by the British Broadcasting Corporation , Mr. Assad said he is ready to hold talks with Israel but that an impartial arbiter is needed to mediate between the two sides .
The Syrian leader expressed doubts the United States is prepared to play this role , saying Washington lacks both the will and the vision to pursue peace in the Middle East .
Mr. Assad 's remarks are in sharp contrast with comments he made Sunday , when he said Israel has given up on the Middle East peace process , forcing Syria to remain prepared for war .
Israeli officials denied having plans to attack Syria , and called Mr. Assad 's comments a cause for concern .
One of Russia 's most popular fashion designers has opened her first clothing store in the U.S.
Teenager Kira Plastinina 's designs are already a hit in her homeland and now she is hoping to find success in America 's fashion capital New York City .
VOA 's Elena Mikhailova introduces us to the young lady who is creating a stir in the fashion industry .
North Korea says flooding caused by last week 's typhoon , Wipha , has destroyed 14,000 homes and 109,000 hectares of crops .
The state news agency KCNA reported the damage Monday .
It says the floods also destroyed or damaged 8,000 public buildings and washed out roads , bridges and railways .
The report did not mention any deaths or injuries .
Most of the heavy rains and flooding occurred in the southwestern part of the country , including the capital , Pyongyang .
Last month , severe flooding in North Korea left 600 people dead or missing , and displaced more than 100,000 others .
A U.S. senator is asking Americans whether a current proposal to overhaul the American health-care system would actually make things better .
Speaking in the weekly Republican address Saturday , Senator Mike Johanns from the state of Nebraska said the proposal could negatively impact " each and every " American .
President Barack Obama , from the majority Democratic Party , is pushing for a bill to be passed by the end of the year .
He says health care costs are spiraling out of control and making it difficult for small businesses to compete .
He says too many Americans are not insured or go bankrupt to pay for health care .
Proposals to reform the system are currently under discussion in both the Senate and the House of Representatives .
Republicans say the proposals are too expensive and will not improve the current system .
Officials of The Hague war crimes tribunal have questioned a prominent Kosovo politician about his role as a leader of ethnic Albanian guerrilla forces during the conflict in the Serbian province
Officials say Ramush Haradinaj spent about 90 minutes with investigators who questioned him in Pristina at the headquarters of the United Nations administration .
No details of the questioning have been released .
Mr. Haradinaj was a top leader of the ethnic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army during the conflict of the late 1990s .
He later moved into local politics , founding the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo , a party that came in third in last month 's Kosovo assembly elections .
Serbian authorities have accused him of responsibility for numerous murders in and other atrocities during the Kosovo conflict .
India 's new Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee and his Pakistani counterpart , Khursheed Kasuri , will meet on Monday in New Delhi to review the stalled peace process between the two nuclear rivals .
Mukherjee told reporters Friday that Kasuri will be in India over the weekend on a private visit and that the meeting had been fixed for Monday .
India suspended the almost three-year-old peace process following a July terrorist attack on Mumbai 's train network that killed nearly 200 people and wounded 800 others .
New Delhi accused Pakistan 's spy agency of involvement in the attack , but Islamabad denied any involvement and demanded evidence .
Last week , the two sides agreed to set up a three-member panel to share information about counter-terrorism activities and a pact to reduce risks of nuclear accidents .
Subsistence agriculture , together with forestry , remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic ( CAR ) , with about 60 % of the population living in outlying areas .
The agricultural sector generates more than half of GDP .
Timber has accounted for about 16 % of export earnings and the diamond industry , for 40 % .
Important constraints to economic development include the CAR 's landlocked position , a poor transportation system , a largely unskilled work force , and a legacy of misdirected macroeconomic policies .
Factional fighting between the government and its opponents remains a drag on economic revitalization .
Distribution of income is extraordinarily unequal .
Grants from France and the international community can only partially meet humanitarian needs .
A U.S. newspaper reports the Bush administration has been monitoring telephone conversations between Iranian diplomats and the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency , Mohamed ElBaradei .
The Washington Post quotes three officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , as saying the White House is looking for material to strengthen its argument that the 62-year-old Mr. ElBaradei should be retired .
There has been no comment from the White House , but as a rule the administration does not comment on intelligence matters .
The newspaper says some U.S. officials believe the phone intercepts may show Mr. ElBaradei has been soft on the Iranians , while others believe the transcripts show only standard diplomacy .
The Post quotes an IAEA spokesman as saying the U.N. agency " always assumed " eavesdropping occurs .
Candidates for upcoming Palestinian legislative elections began signing up Saturday .
The race is likely to see the ruling Fatah party face a strong challenge from the Islamic group , Hamas .
Voting primaries this past week for Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah party were beset with disruptions from gunmen , some with links to Fatah .
Fatah 's younger generation is challenging the old guard , many of whom are seen as tainted by corruption .
Israel and the United States are worried Hamas will do well in the January poll , threatening the peace process .
In a separate development , Mr. Abbas met Pope Benedict XVI at the Vatican Saturday , and invited the pontiff to visit Jerusalem , considered the holy land by followers of Judaism , Christianity and Islam .
Elsewhere , Palestinian officials say Israeli troops shot dead two Palestinians in separate incidents in the Gaza Strip .
Sheriff 's investigators have conducted a search of Michael Jackson 's Neverland Ranch in California .
California authorities filed child molestation charges against the pop music star in December 2003 .
The charges involve an unidentified child under the age of 14 .
A sheriff 's spokesman confirmed Friday 's search , but declined to give any further details .
Jackson 's Neverland Ranch is a theme-park-like estate about 160 kilometers northwest of Los Angeles .
Michael Jackson has pleaded not guilty to child molestation , conspiracy and administering an intoxicating agent .
His trial is scheduled to being January 31 .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton used a speech in Taiwan to stress the need for nations to depend more on one another .
Mr. Clinton arrived in Taipei late Sunday for a one-day visit that had prompted concern from China .
In his speech at the city 's International Convention Center , the former president urged China and Taiwan to resolve their differences and work together peacefully .
Before his arrival , Mr. Clinton told a Hong Kong newspaper group he supports Beijing 's one-China policy , which claims Taiwan as part of China .
The United States observes the policy and has no official diplomatic ties with Taiwan .
Later Sunday , Mr. Clinton had dinner with President Chen Shui-bian .
On Monday he was expected to attend a book-signing for his autobiography , " My Life , " which he recently promoted in China and Japan .
Millions of Americans could lose their homes this year and next as the rate of foreclosures across the United States rises to the highest in decades .
The foreclosure crisis has worsened despite ongoing efforts by some lenders and the government to help borrowers manage their mortgage payments .
VOA 's Chris Simkins reports on how one homeowner in [ the southern US state of ] Virginia is fighting to keep his home .
Police in Pakistan say a suicide car bomber attacked an army checkpost in the country 's northwest , killing four soldiers .
The attack took place Monday in the Khawaza Khela area of the restive Swat Valley .
Officials say at least three other people were also wounded in the blast .
Militants control large parts of the Swat valley region .
Government officials signed a peace agreement in May with militants in Swat to try to end months of fighting that began in late 2007 .
Soon after it was signed , militants resumed burning schools and blowing up barbershops , and the government stepped up anti-insurgent operations .
Pakistani security forces are said to have killed up to 2,000 militants since early August in the Swat district and the Bajaur tribal region on the Afghan border .
SOME Pigeons exposed to the attacks of a Kite asked a Hawk to defend them .
He consented , and being admitted into the cote waited for the Kite , whom he fell upon and devoured .
When he was so surfeited that he could scarcely move , the grateful Pigeons scratched out his eyes .
Thai police say a Lao couple has been found beheaded in southern Thailand , the latest victims of suspected Muslim separatist violence .
The bodies of the young migrant workers were found Saturday in Pattani province , one of the three Muslim-dominated southern provinces where more than 700 people have died in violence since January of 2004 .
The couple left Laos about two months ago to work on a Thai chicken farm .
Muslim militants have carried out almost daily bombings , murders and arson in the provinces of Yala , Pattani and Narathiwat .
Southern Thai Muslims have complained for years of discrimination by the central government , particularly in jobs and education .
Afghan authorities say security forces in southern Helmand province have shot and killed four suspected Taleban insurgents planting land mines intended for counter-narcotics forces .
Helmand is Afghanistan 's largest grower of opium poppies and a hotbed of insurgent activity .
In other violence Tuesday , in neighboring Nimroz province , unidentified gunmen shot dead a district intelligence officer as he was driving in his car .
Meanwhile , U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say they are investigating whether an American and a Canadian soldier killed in a battle against Taleban rebels last week were victims of friendly fire .
Five coalition troops , an American , three Canadians and one Afghan , also were wounded in the battle in Helmand province .
The U.S. military says coalition troops killed 32 Taleban insurgents in the operation .
Officials in Iraq say two bomb attacks in the country have killed at least seven people and wounded about 20 others .
In the deadliest attack Sunday , a bomb exploded in a market in the eastern town of Khalis in Diyala province , killing four people .
Officials say the bomb targeted the town 's mayor , whose condition was unclear .
Diyala province still sees frequent insurgent attacks despite significant drops in violence elsewhere in Iraq .
In the other incident , a female suicide bomber blew herself up at a hospital near the western town of Fallujah in Anbar province , killing three people .
Anbar is a former stronghold of al-Qaida insurgents .
U.S. forces handed over security control of the province to Iraqi forces two months ago .
U.S. and Afghan forces have killed a suspected Taleban commander and three of his fighters in southern Afghanistan .
A U.S. military spokesman says Payenda Mohammed , who was thought to have led about 150 rebels , was killed in a battle in Kandahar province Wednesday .
He was believed responsible for numerous rocket attacks , ambushes and other guerrilla-style assaults .
At least three other militants were killed and 15 wounded as U.S. warplanes and helicopters rocketed caves along a ridge where they were hiding .
Afghan and U.S. forces have stepped up attacks in recent months to flush out militants and boost security to prevent the Taleban from carrying out threats of subverting next month 's parliamentary polls .
Leaders of the African Union have begun a three-day summit during which they are expected to address the situation in Darfur and the issue of African unity .
Police monitored the streets of Accra , Ghana , as more than 30 heads of state gathered for the summit .
The agenda includes discussion of the idea of a United States of Africa .
Proponents of the plan argue a federation of African nations could exercise more influence and better address problems facing the world 's poorest continent .
But regional powers like South Africa favor a more gradual consolidation of regional economic groups .
The idea of a united Africa was conceived four decades ago by Ghana 's first president , Kwame Nkrumah .
Russia 's lower house of parliament , the Duma , on Friday gave preliminary approval to a historic nuclear weapons reduction pact with the U.S. Final ratification is not expected until next year .
Lawmakers voted 350-58 in favor of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty in the first of three required readings of the accord .
The two additional readings are not expected to happen until January 2011 .
Senior lawmaker Konstantin Kosachev , says further work on the treaty will continue once the Duma resumes meeting in January .
He has been quoted as saying START as it was voted for by the U.S. Senate this week contains a large number of interpretations that require study and response from the Russian lawmakers .
The U.S. Senate voted 71-26 in favor of the accord .
The former chief of Russia 's giant Yukos oil company says he has transferred his majority stake in the Group Menatep holding company to a fellow shareholder .
The lawyer for Mikhail Khodorkovsky says the transaction was made after December 's government-ordered auction of the main Yukos production unit Yuganskneftegaz .
Mr. Khodorkovsky transferred the 60 percent stake in Group Menatep to Leonid Nevzlin , who is wanted in Russia on charges of a role in several murders .
He is said to be living in exile in Israel .
Yukos has been the focus of an extensive government investigation .
Russian officials say the company owes billions of dollars in back taxes .
Mr. Khodorkovsky is in jail on trial for tax evasion and fraud .
Critics say the actions against him and his former company are retaliation for his support for the political opposition .
Kremlin officials deny this
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says his recent comments that Israel should be " wiped off the map " reflect Iran 's long-standing policy and do not mark a change in its position .
Speaking Sunday in Tehran , Mr. Ahmadinejad said his words were the same ones used by the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini nearly 27 years ago .
The president 's latest comments , reported by Iran 's news agency , follow a string of international condemnations of his remarks against Israel .
On Friday , the United Nations Security Council backed a statement from Secretary-General Kofi Annan warning Iran that threats against another country violate the U.N. charter .
The United States and the European Union said Mr. Ahmadinejad 's comments on Israel added to Western fears about what they believe is Iran 's quest to develop nuclear weapons .
Defense lawyers for former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein say an unidentified man attacked the ousted leader during his appearance at a court hearing in Baghdad Thursday .
The Jordan-based legal team said in a statement Saturday the man attacked Saddam as he stood to leave the courtroom , and the two exchanged blows .
The lawyers did not say if Saddam was hurt .
The statement says the head of the tribunal did nothing to stop the assault .
Saddam appeared in court to answer question about the repression of a Shi'ite uprising in 1991 .
Earlier this month , he was formally charged with the killings of Shi'ite Muslims in the village of Dujail in 1982 , but no date has been set for his trial .
Energy officials from India , Iran and Pakistan have failed to reach an agreement on a gas pricing formula for a multi-billion dollar joint pipeline project under consideration .
They met for two days in Islamabad and have agreed to meet again in July in New Delhi .
Iran first proposed the $ 7-billion project in 1996 , but hostilities between India and Pakistan kept it dormant .
Talks have revived as warming relations between the two countries in recent years have reduced India 's fears about the 3,000 - kilometer pipeline 's security in Pakistan .
The United States has long opposed the pipeline because its differences with Iran over that country 's nuclear ambitions .
A suicide bomber wearing an Iraqi army uniform killed 26 Iraqi soldiers Wednesday at an army dining hall north of Baghdad .
Military authorities say the bomber waited until lunchtime at the base in Khalis before entering the dining hall and blowing himself up .
In Baghdad , a suicide bomber killed 10 people , mostly police , when he attacked a police patrol .
To the north , near Kirkuk , gunmen killed two senior anti-terrorism police .
And mortar attacks killed five Iraqis outside Baghdad .
In other developments , Iraqi and U.S. troops found and freed an Australian hostage , six weeks after his abduction in Baghdad .
The U.S. military says troops discovered Douglas Wood and an Iraqi hostage during a routine search operation in Baghdad .
Three people were detained .
Mr. Wood , a 63-year-old engineer , later issued a statement thanking his rescuers .
The United States and South Korea have signed a new cost-sharing agreement for funding the American military presence on the peninsula .
And for the first time , Seoul 's share of the expense has been cut .
Under the deal signed Thursday , South Korea will pay about $ 676 million - nearly 9-percent less than last year - to help finance the U.S. military presence for 2005 and 2006 .
Some 32,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea but that number is set to decline as part of Washington 's worldwide redeployment of forces .
The United States has maintained a military presence in South Korea since the 1950 - 1953 Korean War , which ended in a cease-fire , leaving the two Koreas technically still at war .
A senior Palestinian negotiator says Israel plans to hand over the first of five occupied West Bank cities this week , after the resumption of stalled talks on security .
Those talks resumed Sunday with generals from each side meeting to discuss Israel 's conditions for handing over the cities .
Palestinian West Bank commander Hajj Ismail Jabber later said they agreed to hand over Tulkarem to Palestinian control this week .
The Israeli side confirmed that Tulkarem will be the first to be turned over , but officials did not say when they expect that to happen .
These withdrawals are part of pledges made by Israel during an Israeli-Palestinian summit early last month .
The two sides resumed talks that were suspended in the wake of a Palestinian suicide bombing that killed five Israelis in Tel Aviv two weeks ago .
Long before the Olympic games in Beijing dazzled the world , China had generated interest among filmmakers .
One of those filmmakers is Sue Williams , who has produced a number of documentaries about China in the last two decades .
Her latest work " Young & Restless in China " has been broadcast on Frontline , a program which airs on PBS , an American television network .
VOA 's Yi Suli talked recently with Sue Williams about her interest in China .
Elaine Lu narrates .
North Korea says the United States has conducted some 200 spy flights over the country this month .
The official Korean Central News Agency said Tuesday the alleged spying shows the U.S. is scared by Pyongyang 's recent nuclear test .
KCNA said the U.S. has conducted 20 more spy flights this month than in October last year .
North Korea shocked the world October 9 by detonating an underground nuclear device .
The country said it had to test the weapon to strengthen its defenses against what it considers U.S. aggression .
KCNA quotes a military official as saying the spy flights further underscore the need for North Korea to bolster its war deterrent .
The U.S. has not yet commented on the report .
Washington has repeatedly said it has no intention of attacking North Korea and is urging a resumption of stalled multilateral talks aimed at disarming Pyongyang 's nuclear program .
Indian officials say a bomb blast killed eight people and wounded at least 12 others Sunday , a day after the device was discovered in the eastern state of Bihar .
Police in the Aurangabad district say the bomb was found Saturday but could not be immediately defused .
Local officials believe the bomb was planted by Maoist rebels who had called for a boycott of Saturday 's state legislative elections .
A strong earthquake rocked Indonesia Friday , even as recovery efforts continued from last month 's devastating quake there .
The earthquake made buildings sway in the capital Jakarta and caused panic in some villages , but there were no immediate reports of injuries .
Officials said the 6.4 magnitude quake struck in the Sunda Strait , off the western coast of Java island .
A 7.6 magnitude earthquake struck West Sumatra September 30 - killing at least 1,000 people , collapsing buildings and triggering landslides .
Indonesia frequently experiences earthquakes because it sits on an arc of volcanos and fault lines encircling the Pacific Basin .
Syria has expressed " deep regret " over an Iraqi statement that Damascus is not taking serious steps to prevent insurgents from crossing into Iraqi territory .
Iraqi Interior Minister Bayan Jabr Iraqi Interior Minister Bayan Jabr told the Associated Press Sunday that he was not optimistic Damascus would crack down on the insurgents .
He said he has photographs and addresses of insurgent leaders in Syria but indicated they had not yet been captured .
Syria 's state-run SANA news agency quotes an unidentified foreign ministry official as saying Mr. Jabr 's interview " contradicts " previous agreements with Baghdad .
The official added that Syria is committed to good relations with Iraq and to helping stop violence in that country .
The official was also quoted as saying Syria has deployed what he described as a " great number " of soldiers to the border and increased the number of checkpoints .
A LION entered a farmyard .
The Farmer , wishing to catch him , shut the gate .
When the Lion found that he could not escape , he flew upon the sheep and killed them , and then attacked the oxen .
The Farmer , beginning to be alarmed for his own safety , opened the gate and released the Lion .
On his departure the Farmer grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen , but his wife , who had been a spectator to all that took place , said , " On my word , you are rightly served , for how could you for a moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only hear his roar at a distance ? '
The U.S. space agency is making final preparations to launch the first direct space probe to the distant planet of Pluto .
NASA 's New Horizons probe is scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral , Florida , early in the New Year .
If all goes well , the spacecraft - the size of a grand piano and weighing about half a ton ( 454 kilograms ) - will reach Pluto in 10 to 15 years .
The $ 650-million mission calls for an extensive study of Pluto and its primary moon , Charon .
The New Horizons probe will photograph Pluto and gather data about its atmosphere , surface geology and temperature .
After flying past the frozen planet , the spacecraft is to explore a distant part of the solar system known as the Kuiper Belt , an area where scores of Pluto-like objects have been discovered in recent months and years .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has criticized Russia 's behavior towards Georgia , saying it is adding to tensions in the area .
As she arrived in Prague Tuesday , Rice noted that the former Soviet republic of Georgia is an independent state , and called on both Russia and Georgia to avoid " provocative " actions .
U.S. officials have been dismayed by a series of Russian actions involving Georgia 's breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
Meanwhile , Georgian Defense Ministry officials say four Georgian servicemen detained by South Ossetian authorities near the administrative border of the breakaway area earlier Tuesday have been released .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili had threatened action unless they were freed .
Abkhazia and South Ossetia declared independence from Georgia in the early 1990s , sparking fighting and the dispatch of Russian peacekeepers to the region .
Georgia has vowed to bring the territories back under central government control .
The National Guard is dropping hay bales from helicopters over the western U.S. state of Colorado to feed stranded cattle , while officials in surrounding states work to restore power after two powerful snowstorms hit the region in two weeks .
Guard members began this week to drop hay over snow-crusted pastures where cattle are immobilized in deep drifts .
Authorities say they could soon die of starvation or dehydration if not fed .
That would deeply hurt the state 's economy .
The operation is hampered by the fact that many of the Guard 's larger helicopters are in use in Iraq .
Meanwhile , officials in Colorado , Nebraska , Kansas and Oklahoma are working to restore electricity to tens of thousands of homes and businesses .
Emergency workers are searching for people trapped in their homes without food or power .
Many residents are staying in emergency shelters to keep warm .
The family of former French prime minister and prominent economist Raymond Barre says he has died at the age of 83 .
Relatives said Barre died Saturday at the Val-de-Grace hospital in Paris , where he had been hospitalized since April with heart problems .
Mr. Barre served in the Industry Ministry from 1959 through 1962 during President Charles de Gaule 's administration .
He was prime minister of France from 1976 through 1981 , and also held the posts of vice president of the European Union , French economics minister and mayor of Lyon .
He retired from politics in 2002 .
Iran 's chief nuclear negotiator says Russia 's proposal to carry out sensitive nuclear fuel work outside Iran is not sufficient for the Islamic country 's energy needs .
Ali Larijani , secretary of Iran 's Supreme National Security Council , told reporters Friday in Tehran the plan can be considered as part of a package , but that alone it is insufficient .
Moscow 's idea to have Iran enrich uranium in facilities in Russia , where the work can be closely monitored , is seen as a way out of a growing crisis over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions .
It has been backed by the United States , China and the European Union .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Friday Iran " appears to be playing more games with the international community " in its shifting positions on the Russian proposal .
An Indian army spokesman says troops have shot dead a top rebel leader in Kashmir .
The spokesman said Saturday the militant , identified simply as Saad , was a local administrator and financial controller of the Lashkar-e-Toiba group .
Lashkar has not commented on the army statement .
Indian authorities have blamed the Pakistan-based group for a series of attacks in the mountainous region .
Both India and Pakistan claim ownership of Kashmir .
The region is suffering from a 17-year insurgency that has taken more than 45,000 lives .
Various rebel groups are fighting for independence from New Delhi 's control or a merger with Pakistan .
The Lebanese army says it is closing in on militants inside a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
Lebanese troops bombarded Islamic militant positions Saturday and the Fatah al-Islam militants responded with artillery and rocket fire .
Military sources say militants launched eight Katyusha rockets at positions outside the Nahr el-Bared camp , near the city of Tripoli .
No military casualties were confirmed from today 's violence .
But military officials say a soldier who was wounded in clashes Friday died today .
At least 11 soldiers have been killed in fighting since Thursday .
More than 170 people , including at least 96 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
Nearly all of the Palestinian refugees living in the camp have fled .
Last month , Lebanese officials claimed victory in the fighting , but daily firefights have continued since then .
The U.S. Embassy in Beijing has issued a warning of a possible terrorist threat against U.S. interests in China .
An embassy statement Friday says the U.S. government has received unconfirmed information of possible threats , especially in the cities of Beijing , Shanghai and Guangzhou .
The embassy says the threat may exist in places where Americans congregate such as clubs , restaurants , schools or outdoor recreation events .
The warning advises U.S. citizens in China to be aware of their surroundings and remain alert to possible threats .
Citizens living or traveling in China are advised to register with the U.S. Embassy or nearest consulate through the State Department Web site .
The registration will make them easier to contact in case of emergency .
The U.S. military says American and Iraqi forces fighting insurgents in western Iraq have encountered strong resistance as they battle to secure the border region and prevent terrorist infiltrations from Syria .
The military says coalition forces have encountered some of the heaviest fighting in the city of Ubaydi since Operation Steel Curtain began 10 days ago .
Three Marines and 80 insurgents have been killed since coalition forces entered the city on Monday .
They have found houses rigged with explosives , more than 100 explosive devices and mines , as well as 36 weapons caches .
The operation is intended to restore security along the Euphrates River Valley ahead of next month 's parliamentary elections .
Meanwhile , attacks in Baghdad and Kirkuk killed eight policemen Tuesday .
And coalition forces say they captured a high level Baath Party leader Hamid Sharki Shadid in Diyala province .
Police in Nepal have detained some 185 Tibetan exiles who demonstrated outside the Chinese embassy in the capital , Kathmandu .
Sunday 's arrests come after Saturday 's detention of 450 Tibetans who held a similar demonstration .
The protests are the latest in the almost-daily demonstrations by Tibetan exiles in Kathmandu since March , when deadly clashes broke out between protesters and Chinese authorities in their homeland , Tibet .
They temporarily suspended demonstrations in Nepal after the earthquake in China , but recently have restarted protests .
Nepal , which regards Tibet as part of China , is home to some 20,000 Tibetan refugees .
New data show the U.S. trade deficit grew slightly in June as imports rose for the first time in 11 months .
The U.S. Commerce Department says the deficit reached $ 27 billion in June , up from $ 26 billion in May .
The increase reflects a 2.3 percent jump in U.S. imports of goods and services in June - the biggest increase this year .
U.S. exports rose 2 percent in the same month .
A trade deficit occurs when a country imports more than it exports .
The widening U.S. deficit indicates increased demand by American consumers - a sign the recession is starting to ease .
The U.S. central bank , known as the Federal Reserve , is wrapping up a two-day meeting on the economic situation .
Officials are scheduled to publish their closely-watched economic assessment Wednesday afternoon , Washington time .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice waves as she is escorted by Palestinian Foreign Minister Nasser Al Kidwa , second left as she arrives at the office of Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia in Ramallah
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has launched a Middle East visit to help Israeli and Palestinian leaders prepare for Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Ms. Rice met Saturday with Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia in Ramallah , ahead of talks with President Mahmoud Abbas .
Sunday , she is to meet Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Jerusalem .
Before arriving , she told reporters that Palestinians must work to ensure security ahead of the Israeli withdrawal , set for August .
She also expressed concern over Israeli plans to expand settlements in the West Bank .
Meantime , the militant group Islamic Jihad says one of its fighters was killed in a clash with Israeli forces in southern Gaza .
Outgoing Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo has bid farewell to the nation he led for eight years .
In a nationally televised address Monday , Mr. Obasanjo gave himself high marks as a civilian ruler , saying that under his leadership , Nigeria became stronger and more united .
He praised his successor , Umaru Yar'Adua , a little-known governor from the far northern state of Katsina , who is set to assume office on Tuesday .
Yar'Adua scored a landslide victory in last month 's disputed presidential elections .
International observers said the polls were not credible .
Monitors reported many instances of vote-rigging and violence .
Last week , the opposition filed a lawsuit seeking a court annulment of the polls .
Tuesday 's handover is the first from one civilian administration to another since Nigeria 's independence in 1960 .
A Hungarian government spokesman says the deadly strain of bird flu virus has been found in the southern part of Hungary .
Spokesman Andras Batiz said Tuesday three wild swans found last week have tested positive for the H5N1 virus .
German veterinary officials Tuesday confirmed 22 new cases of flu in birds on the island of Ruegen , bringing the total in the country to 103 .
Croatia has confirmed the H5N1 virus in a wild swan found dead last week .
Tuesday , France and the Netherlands petitioned European Union animal health experts to allow them to vaccinate their poultry .
However , after a day of debate , the experts failed to reach agreement but decided to continue the discussion Wednesday .
Bird flu has killed more than 90 people since 2003 in Asia .
Israel 's Likud Party chairman Benjamin Netanyahu says his party 's remaining Cabinet ministers will resign from Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's government on Sunday .
Mr. Netanyahu announced Tuesday morning that Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom and three other Likud ministers will quit the government at the next weekly Cabinet meeting .
Despite Likud 's departure , Mr. Sharon 's caretaker government is expected to remain in office until elections later this year .
Mr. Netanyahu was elected to lead Likud last month , after Mr. Sharon left the party .
The prime minister has faced strong opposition from right-wing Likud members over his decision to withdraw from the Gaza Strip last year .
Shortly before the party leadership election , Mr. Netanyahu had pledged all Likud ministers would leave the Sharon government as quickly as possible .
Mr. Sharon has formed a new party , Kadima , to contest the elections on March 28 .
A Mexican police chief has been ambushed and shot dead in the border city of Nuevo Laredo .
Authorities say Commander Victor Berrones died Tuesday when gunmen attacked the vehicle in which he was traveling .
Another officer with him was also killed , along with at least one of the suspected assailants .
The incident took place on a highway leading to the airport in Nuevo Laredo .
Authorities recovered at least 100 bullet casings as well as rifles at the scene .
Nuevo Laredo has been plagued for years by violence between gangs fighting for control of lucrative drug smuggling routes into the U.S.
The man who guided the world 's largest economy for the past 18 years today presides over his last meeting of the committee that sets the key U.S. interest rate .
Economists and politicians say 79-year-old Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan is world 's most influential economic figure .
Greenspan was first appointed to head the U.S. central bank in 1987 by President Ronald Reagan .
Since then he has built a reputation for skillfully fighting inflation and helping the U.S. economy weather stock market declines , terror attacks and recession .
Most economists say Greenspan and his colleagues will probably raise U.S. interest rates again Tuesday as they near the end of a campaign of boosting rates to fight inflation .
Former White House economic advisor Ben Bernanke is set to be confirmed as Greenspan 's successor .
Iraqi political leaders representing the country 's different ethnic and religious groups held more separate consultations Thursday to work out key points of a new constitution .
A draft of the document is due on Monday , but several issues are still not resolved .
One of those is federalism , which the Kurds want to protect their self-rule in northern Iraq .
The Shi'ites are divided , while Sunni Arabs are strongly against federalism .
Meanwhile , the United Nations Security Council renewed for another year its Assistance Mission for Iraq ( UNAMI ) .
That mission helps Iraqis draft the constitution and organize elections .
In the northern city of Mosul , the U.S. military says one of its unmanned aerial vehicles crashed without harming anyone on the ground .
But it says the vehicle has not been recovered because people on the ground carried it away after it crashed .
Fourteen Muslim men went on trial in the Netherlands Monday , accused of plotting the murder of Dutch politicians .
Dutch police arrested the men after the murder of filmmaker Theo van Gogh in November of 2004 by Mohammed Bouyeri .
Bouyeri was sentenced to life in prison earlier this year .
He and most of the other defendants are Dutch-born offspring of North African immigrants .
After acquittals in other prominent cases , the trial will be a test for new Dutch laws that supporters say should make it easier to convict extremists .
The first witness , a woman identified as the former wife of one of the accused , refused to speak in court , but a statement she had given to police earlier was read out .
The court is also scheduled to hear testimony Monday from an expert on Islamic fundamentalism .
Israeli forces have handed over control of some checkpoints around the town of Jericho to Palestinian security forces , but a last-minute legal hitch apparently has stalled the formal transfer .
Officials at the handover said a dispute arose Wednesday over several documents that needed to be signed .
It is not clear when that situation will be resolved .
Israeli forces have dismantled one roadblock and Palestinian forces have taken up positions inside the town .
Two other checkpoints will remain in place for a one-month trial period to test the Palestinians ' ability to ensure calm .
Jericho is the first of five towns - Tulkarem , Qalqiliya , Ramallah , Bethlehem - that Israel plans to turn over to Palestinian control .
Meanwhile , in Cairo , Egyptian and Palestinian officials and Palestinian militant leaders are discussing a proposed one-year halt to Palestinian attacks on Israeli targets .
The U.S. government has chartered three of Carnival Cruise lines ships for the next six months to provide temporary housing for victims of Hurricane Katrina .
Carnival officials say the ships will be able to provide shelter for as many as 7,000 people displaced by Katrina .
Two of the cruise liners will be based in Galveston , Texas and the other will likely be docked in Mobile , Alabama .
China and Japan say the six-nation North Korean nuclear disarmament talks will resume next week in Beijing as scheduled .
China 's chief negotiator , Vice Foreign Minister Wu Dawei , met with his Japanese counterpart Kenichiro Sasae Wednesday , in Tokyo .
The diplomats discussed Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program and North Korea 's relations with Japan .
Tokyo says it wants to include the issue of the kidnapping of several Japanese citizens by North Korea in 1970s and `80s within the framework of the nuclear talks .
Pyongyang returned to the negotiations earlier this month after a one-year boycott .
The talks were recessed earlier this month after disagreements surfaced over North Korea 's insistence to retain a civilian nuclear program .
The chief U.S. negotiator in the talks Christopher Hill , says the issue is not a " show stopper " that could potentially derail the talks .
The Ford Motor Company says sales of its products in China are booming .
In a statement Monday Ford says sales rose 46 percent last year to more than 82,000 vehicles - a record .
If Ford 's affiliated brands - like Mazda - are added to the total , the company sold 220,000 vehicles in China last year .
Ford is the second largest U.S. automaker , and number three in the world after General Motors and Toyota .
In China , Ford is outsold by both GM and Volkswagen .
China says a gas explosion in an illegal coal mine in the country 's north has killed 20 people .
The official Xinhua news agency said Monday that the blast occurred Sunday evening in Shanxi province , while miners were trying to mine coal secretly .
Xinhua gave no further details .
China 's mining industry is the most dangerous in the world , with numerous fires , floods and other disasters every year , despite repeated government promises to improve safety .
Many of the accidents are in small , illegal mines , where safety procedures are often ignored .
An average of 13 Chinese workers die every day in mining accidents .
Uzbekistan has canceled the accreditation of German broadcaster Deutsche Welle 's correspondents in the Central Asian state , the latest foreign reporters to have their credentials revoked .
The country has taken an increasingly tough line with foreign media since they reported eyewitness accounts of troops shooting on a crowd in the town of Andijan last year and killing hundreds of civilians .
Under a new media law introduced this month , it is illegal to work as a reporter in Uzbekistan without accreditation from the Foreign Ministry .
The law says accreditation can be revoked for a range of reasons including interfering in the country 's internal affairs .
Earlier , the Uzbek government shut down local offices of the BBC and U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty .
The moves followed the bloodshed in Andijan , which led to European Union sanctions against Uzbekistan and criticism from former ally Washington .
A Kenyan High Court judge has formally dropped murder charges against a prominent white rancher accused of killing a game warden .
Judge Muga Apondi Wednesday approved a request by the attorney general to drop the case against Thomas Cholmondeley , the grandson of one of Kenya 's original British settlers , Lord Delamere .
Mr. Cholmondeley was charged with killing a plainclothes Kenyan game warden who was investigating allegations his ranch harbored illegal trade in game meat .
The rancher said he thought the game warden was an armed robber .
Judge Apondi said the court was sympathetic to the pain of the deceased man 's family but asked them to be patient and wait for the inquest into the killing .
Mr. Cholmondeley 's ranch in the central Rift Valley is one of the biggest in Kenya .
The United Nations says peacekeepers have launched a major military operation in eastern Congo , where militiamen killed nine peacekeepers last month .
U.N. officials said Friday at least 500 peacekeepers are involved in the operation in Congo 's troubled northeastern Ituri region .
A U.N. military source told Reuters news agency the troops are trying to catch the militiamen , believed to be ethnic Lendu fighters , who are suspected of ambushing the Bangladeshi peacekeepers .
Earlier this month , U.N. soldiers killed at least 50 militiamen in Ituri province .
That battle was the most serious involving the U.N. Congo mission since it began deploying in 1999 .
The United Nations has been under fire for failing to stop ongoing ethnic violence in Ituri .
This month , the mission pledged to step up its operations .
The White House has expressed concern about reports that the U.S. military paid Iraqi newspapers to run pro-American stories about the war and rebuilding effort .
Spokesman Scott McClellan Thursday said the White House is seeking more information from the Defense Department .
The Los Angeles Times on Wednesday first reported the program to plant articles in Iraqi media .
It reported that American soldiers wrote the articles and presented them to Iraqi media as unbiased accounts from independent journalists .
The Defense Department said it is looking into the matter .
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said he sent inquiries to military officials in Iraq about the alleged activity .
He added that , if true , some of the activities are troubling .
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni will extend his 20-year hold on power with an inauguration ceremony Friday .
African heads of state gathered in the capital Kampala for the swearing-in , as Mr. Museveni begins a new five-year term in office .
Mr. Museveni was declared the winner of disputed February elections - the African country 's first multiparty elections in 25 years .
Mr. Museveni garnered 59 percent of the vote , compared to 37 percent for opposition leader Kizza Besigye .
The opposition party had asked the high court to overturn the results , charging they were distorted by bribery and government intimidation .
Final results show the president of Niger , Tandja Mamadou , has won a second five-year term in office .
Niger 's electoral commission said Tuesday that President Tandja won 65.5 percent of the vote in the run-off balloting on Saturday .
It says opposition candidate Mahamadou Issoufou received 34.5 percent of the vote .
President Tandja had been heavily favored to win a new term after four opponents who lost in the first round decided to back him .
The president is the first elected leader of Niger to complete a five-year term without being assassinated or deposed in a coup .
Results from the Niger 's parliamentary elections , also held Sarturday , have not been announced .
Media reports from Tehran quote Iranian officials as saying Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi will be released within days .
The reports indicate that Iranian officials have completed their investigation into her case .
Saberi 's family in the U.S. alerted media to her detention last week .
Iranian officials then confirmed the 31-year-old journalist is being held in Tehran 's infamous Evin prison , saying that she worked illegally in the country after her press credentials had been revoked .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton Thursday called on Iran to release Saberi , who has been in prison for the past month .
Clinton added that the United States is working through Swiss officials to request information on the journalist .
Iraq 's prime minister says he is prepared to present his national reconciliation plan to the Iraqi parliament as violence continues elsewhere in the country .
Iraqi police said a roadside bomb killed a local intelligence chief and his two guards in the northern city of Kirkuk Saturday .
In another development , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Saturday in a bomb attack in central Baghdad .
North of the capital , in Tikrit , protests erupted after U.S. forces detained a top Sunni religious leader and at least two of his sons .
Sheikh Jamal Abdel Karim al-Dabaan and his sons were released several hours later .
Meanwhile , political sources say Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki will announce his national reconciliation plan to parliament Sunday .
Mr. al-Maliki 's office said the 28-point plan will offer some insurgents amnesty in an attempt to bring militant groups to the negotiating table .
It is well documented that for every mile that you jog , you add one minute to your life .
This enables you at 85 years old to spend an additional 5 months in a nursing home at $ 5000 per month .
New U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito has cast his first decision on the nation 's highest court , refusing to let the state of Missouri execute a death-row inmate contesting lethal injection .
Alito broke ranks with the court 's conservatives late Wednesday , siding with the majority in a six-to-three vote rejecting a last-minute request to allow Missouri to execute Michael Taylor .
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas supported allowing the execution to proceed .
Taylor pleaded guilty to kidnapping , raping and murdering a 15-year-old girl in 1989 .
He has challenged his death sentence by lethal injection as cruel and unusual punishment .
PepsiCo , the U.S. company that markets Pepsi and other beverages , has selected a woman born in India to be its next chief executive officer .
Indra Nooyi will assume control of the company on Oct. 1 , PepsiCo announced Monday .
Nooyi was born in Madras and earned her undergraduate and master 's degrees in India .
She is also a graduate of the Yale School of Management in the United States .
The business magazine Forbes included Nooyi in a list of the 100 most powerful women in the United States last year .
She has worked for PepsiCo for the past 12 years , most recently as the company 's chief financial officer .
The value of the company 's stock rose slightly after her promotion was announced .
Health officials in Thailand say they have confirmed that a woman outside Bangkok is the 20th person in the country to contract bird flu since it hit Thailand two years ago .
Officials say the 50-year-old woman was hospitalized with the deadly H5N1 flu virus on Saturday after cleaning up chicken excrement .
Elsewhere , Vietnamese officials are calling for more international assistance to help fight avian influenza .
They made the appeal at a meeting of health and disaster officials from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Brisbane , Australia .
Meanwhile , health officials from African nations are meeting in Kigali , Rwanda Monday to discuss ways of dealing with migratory birds that may carry the virus to the continent .
Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north European power , Denmark has evolved into a modern , prosperous nation that is participating in the general political and economic integration of Europe .
It joined NATO in 1949 and the EEC ( now the EU ) in 1973 .
However , the country has opted out of certain elements of the European Union 's Maastricht Treaty , including the European Economic and Monetary Union ( EMU ) , European defense cooperation , and issues concerning certain justice and home affairs .
Revelers in Brazil have gathered to celebrate the last day of Carnival celebrations , before the start of Lent .
Authorities in Rio de Janeiro say more than 700,000 tourists have come to the city for the celebrations , which kicked off over the weekend .
The largest parades took place Sunday and Monday nights in Rio 's Sambadrome where the city 's top samba groups , dressed in elaborate costumes , competed against each other to put on the best show .
Organized into samba schools , the groups spend all year preparing and rehearsing for Carnival .
After two nights of carnival parades , celebrations in Rio de Janeiro returned to the streets Tuesday for one last day of revelry .
Celebrations are also taking place in other Brazilian cities .
Ash Wednesday is the start of Lent , which for Roman Catholics opens the 40-day period of penitence , sacrifice and reflection .
Officials say four policemen were killed and three seriously injured Monday when their vehicle hit a landmine near Agadez , in northern Niger .
Officials say the landmine was planted by the ethnic Tuareg rebel group , the Niger Movement for Justice .
The Niger Movement for Justice , known by its French initials MNJ , came to international attention earlier this year after the rebels launched a number of attacks against government and foreign interests in northern Niger .
A previous Tuareg rebellion broke out in Niger in the early 1990s .
The rebel group contends that Niger 's government has failed to live up to a 1995 peace deal that promised a degree of autonomy for the group .
At least 11 members of the military police have died in similar attacks in the last two months .
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan says its forces have killed at least 24 militants during two separate battles .
In a statement Friday , the coalition says Afghan and U.S. forces killed at least 12 militants , after an attack on a coalition base in the Shahidi Hassas district of southern Uruzgan province on Thursday .
Also Thursday , the coalition says its forces killed another 12 militants while on patrol in eastern Paktika province .
U.S. officials say troops came under attack , while looking for militants who were transporting foreign fighters between the two countries .
On Thursday , the U.S.-led coalition said its troops killed more than 100 militants during four days of fighting in southern Afghanistan .
Also , officials say three civilians - a woman and two children - were killed late Thursday after German and Afghan forces fired at a car that failed to stop at a checkpoint in the northern province of Kunduz .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh says Saturday 's bombings in New Delhi are linked to foreign elements .
During a phone conversation Monday with Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf , he urged Mr. Musharraf to act against terrorism directed at India .
Mr. Musharraf said Pakistan stands with India against what he called a " dastardly terrorist attack . "
The bombings killed almost 60 people and wounded more than 150 others as Hindus prepared for the Diwali festival .
Tuesday , marks the height of Diwali , also known as the festival of lights .
Responsibilty for the attacks has been claimed by the little-known Islamic Revolutionary Front .
Indian officials say it has ties to a Kashmiri separatist group outlawed in Pakistan .
Pakistani officials say they have no evidence that Pakistani groups were involved in the attack .
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has rejected charges that he was " detached " from the disastrous flooding of Hurricane Katrina .
Chertoff told a Senate panel Wednesday that officials were aware of the danger ahead of time , but said his department was simply overwhelmed by the catastrophe .
The committee chairwoman , Republican Senator Susan Colllins , said Chertoff seemed strangely detached in the aftermath of the storm that devastated New Orleans and other areas of the U.S. Gulf Coast last August .
A congressional report due out later today strongly criticizes the Bush administration 's response to Hurricane Katrina .
Excerpts say the government had a clear indication of how bad the damage to New Orleans would be , but failed to act .
The report says Chertoff enacted emergency response programs late or ineffectively , and President Bush failed to use his power to cut through government bureaucracy .
Afghan authorities say security forces are hunting for an Indian telecommunications worker kidnapped by Taleban insurgents .
Officials say the Indian contractor , who was working for the Afghan telecommunications company Roshan , was kidnapped Friday on a main road in the southern province of Zabul .
A Taleban spokesman said the Indian was healthy and that higher authorities within the Taleban would soon decide on the captive 's fate .
Afghan security forces clashed Saturday with Taleban militants hiding in a cave complex in southern Helmand province , killing two of them and seizing weapons .
U.S. and Afghan opposition forces drove the Taleban from power in late 2001 after the extremist Islamic government refused to hand over Osama bin Laden .
The Philippine military has placed the country 's troubled south under " extreme alert " after a string of deadly bombings .
Military chief General Hermogenes Esperon said Thursday , government troops and police have intensified security patrols because of the possibility of more terrorist attacks .
He noted specific concerns about operations by the local militant group Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah , a Southeast Asian terrorist network linked to al-Qaida .
Three bombs ripped through the southern island of Mindanao Tuesday and Wednesday , killing at least six people and wounding 29 .
Philippine forces have been fighting Abu Sayyaf on the southern island of Jolo .
The militants are believed to be aiding Dulmatin and Umar Patek , two key members of Jemaah Islamiyah wanted in connection with the 2002 bombings in Bali , Indonesia .
The French parliament has thrown out a bill that would have allowed farmers to grow genetically modified crops .
Lawmakers narrowly rejected the bill Tuesday 136 to 135 .
Protesters against the bill , some wearing hats shaped like corn cobs , cheered when the results were announced .
French Prime Minister Francois Fillon says he plans to submit a new bill to parliament .
Genetically modified crops have had their DNA engineered to make them resistant to disease and pests .
Surveys show many French oppose such foods , saying their safety is still not assured .
In February , France imposed a temporary ban on genetically modified corn approved for sale by the European Union .
The corn is produced by the U.S. company Monsanto .
Sunni Muslim mosques in the Iraqi capital are closed Saturday , to protest sectarian violence .
Sunni clerics ordered the three-day closure to protest what they call deliberate killings of some of their preachers by members of a Shi'ite militia .
The militia has denied the charge .
Meanwhile , Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari wrapped up a visit to neighboring Turkey .
Mr. al-Jaafari discussed a wide range of topics with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials .
Turkey is especially concerned about Kurdish separatists in northern Iraq , and Mr. al-Jaafari pledged that Iraq will not allow " any group to harm " Turkey .
He also said Kirkuk will continue to reflect Iraq 's diverse demographic makeup and will remain a part of a united Iraq .
For his part , Mr. Erdogan said Turkey seeks to end the use of Iraq as what he called a " virtual terrorism training ground . "
The European Union 's top security official says erecting new walls will not hold back the flood of African immigrants seeking to enter EU countries .
EU Security Commissioner Franco Frattini told EU Justice and interior ministers meeting in Luxembourg that 30,000 would-be migrants are waiting in Algeria and Morocco to enter their countries .
He was referring to Spain 's North African enclaves of Melilla and Ceuta , where more than one thousand migrants have scaled razor-wire fences to enter Europe since August .
At least 14 have died during the attempts .
Participants at the talks called for debt relief and economic support , as well as closer cooperation with Sub-Saharan African states to address the immigrant issue .
African Union President Alpha Oumar Konare , who attended the meeting , called for closer coordination in efforts to deal with the crisis .
Brazil says it is sending a team of investigators to Britain next week to look into the killing of a Brazilian man who was fatally shot in the London subway last month after being mistaken for a terrorist .
The announcement Friday came some 24 hours after the head of the independent British panel investigating the death of Jean-Charles de Menezes said London Police Commissioner Ian Blair tried to stop the probe .
Police shot and killed Mr. de Menezes on a London subway July 22 saying he was acting suspiciously and ignored orders to stop running .
But Britain 's ITV television , citing security video and witnesses , said Mr. de Menezes was behaving normally .
Commissioner Blair has rejected calls by Mr. de Menezes ' lawyers and family for his resignation and denied allegations of a cover-up .
Pope Benedict XVI returned to Rome Monday , after his six-day trip to the United States .
The pope 's U.S. visit included a meeting with President Bush , outdoor Masses , and a visit to one of the sites attacked on September 11 , 2001 .
During his trip , the pope repeatedly referred to the sexual abuse scandal that has wracked the U.S. church .
He had an unprecedented meeting with victims of abusive priests .
Benedict celebrated Mass Sunday at a New York City baseball stadium packed with 57,000 worshippers .
The pope was met with loud cheers when he arrived at Yankee Stadium .
Some in the crowd waved handkerchiefs in the Vatican 's colors - white and yellow .
Pakistani authorities say at least 30 people were killed and more than 50 others injured in a suspected suicide bombing near a Shi'ite mosque in central Pakistan Thursday .
Police say the blast in the city of Dera Ghazi Khan occurred as a religious procession was passing the mosque .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility , and the motivation for the attack is not clear .
Most Pakistanis are Sunni Muslim , while Shi'ites make up about 20 percent of the country 's population .
Also Thursday , Poland 's Foreign Ministry said Pakistani Taliban militants who kidnapped a Polish geologist last year have extended a deadline for the Pakistani government to meet their demands .
The ministry did not provide further details .
Piotr Stanczak , who works for Geofizyka Krakow , was abducted in Punjab province on September 28 .
Three Pakistanis were killed during the kidnapping .
Two neighbours came before Jupiter and prayed him to grant their hearts ' desire .
Now the one was full of avarice , and the other eaten up with envy .
So to punish them both , Jupiter granted that each might have whatever he wished for himself , but only on condition that his neighbour had twice as much .
The Avaricious man prayed to have a room full of gold .
No sooner said than done ; but all his joy was turned to grief when he found that his neighbour had two rooms full of the precious metal .
Then came the turn of the Envious man , who could not bear to think that his neighbour had any joy at all .
So he prayed that he might have one of his own eyes put out , by which means his companion would become totally blind .
Vices are their own punishment .
Lebanese officials say Israeli warplanes have again violated Lebanon 's airspace .
Security officials said Thursday , that Israeli fighter jets flew over the southern town of Naqoura and the eastern city of Baalbek .
A large United Nations peacekeeping base is in Naqoura .
The international community has criticized Israel for such overflights .
It says they violate the ceasefire agreement that ended a month-long war between Israel and Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
Earlier , the French Foreign Ministry summoned Israel 's ambassador over a similar incident .
French officials say Israeli warplanes aggressively dove toward French peacekeepers in southern Lebanon .
A spokeswoman for the Israeli embassy in France said the overflights must continue to prevent arms from being smuggled to Hezbollah .
French Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said Wednesday the incident nearly caused a catastrophe .
She said French troops were seconds away from firing anti-aircraft missiles at the warplanes .
The native Taino Amerindians - who inhabited the island of Hispaniola when it was discovered by COLUMBUS in 1492 - were virtually annihilated by Spanish settlers within 25 years .
In the early 17th century , the French established a presence on Hispaniola .
In 1697 , Spain ceded to the French the western third of the island , which later became Haiti .
The French colony , based on forestry and sugar-related industries , became one of the wealthiest in the Caribbean but only through the heavy importation of African slaves and considerable environmental degradation .
In the late 18th century , Haiti 's nearly half million slaves revolted under Toussaint L'OUVERTURE .
After a prolonged struggle , Haiti became the first black republic to declare independence in 1804 .
The poorest country in the Western Hemisphere , Haiti has been plagued by political violence for most of its history .
After an armed rebellion led to the forced resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE in February 2004 , an interim government took office to organize new elections under the auspices of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Continued violence and technical delays prompted repeated postponements , but Haiti finally did inaugurate a democratically elected president and parliament in May of 2006 .
A massive magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck Haiti in January 2010 with an epicenter about 15 km southwest of the capital , Port-au-Prince .
An estimated 2 million people lived within the zone of heavy to moderate structural damage .
The earthquake was assessed as the worst in this region over the last 200 years and massive international assistance will be required to help the country recover .
Despite the global financial crisis , Qatar has prospered in the last several years - in 2010 Qatar had the world 's highest growth rate .
Qatari authorities throughout the crisis sought to protect the local banking sector with direct investments into domestic banks .
GDP rebounded in 2010 largely due to the increase in oil prices .
Economic policy is focused on developing Qatar 's nonassociated natural gas reserves and increasing private and foreign investment in non-energy sectors , but oil and gas still account for more than 50 % of GDP , roughly 85 % of export earnings , and 70 % of government revenues .
Oil and gas likely have made Qatar the highest per-capita income country - ahead of Liechtenstein - and the country with the lowest unemployment .
Proved oil reserves of 25 billion barrels should enable continued output at current levels for 57 years .
Qatar 's proved reserves of natural gas exceed 25 trillion cubic meters , about 14 % of the world total and third largest in the world .
Qatar 's successful 2022 world cup bid will likely accelerate large-scale infrastructure projects such as Qatar 's metro system and the Qatar-Bahrain causeway .
A French investment banker , who invested with disgraced financier Bernard Madoff , took his own life in New York this week .
VOA 's Barry Wood reports that the alleged 50 billion dollar Madoff fraud is only the latest in a string of pyramid schemes that have robbed millions of people of their savings .
The schemes pay old investors with the funds of new contributors .
They collapse when investors rush to get their money out , as happened in the latest New York scandal .
Indian police say they have arrested a key suspect in the July train bombings that killed nearly 200 people and wounded more than 800 others in Mumbai , formerly known as Bombay .
Police say they arrested Asif Khan , who used the alias Junaid , in the Indian city of Belgaum in Karnataka state Tuesday .
They say he is one of the organizers of the attack .
He is the 16th person to be arrested in connection with the Mumbai blasts , and was scheduled to appear in court Wednesday .
A Vatican spokesman says Pope Benedict is willing to meet with victims of pedophile priests .
Reverend Federico Lombardi made the statement to Vatican Radio on Friday .
Lombardi said the church must also cooperate with police and judicial authorities because it is the only way to regain trust .
The pope and the Vatican have been heavily criticized in Europe following newly revealed cases of sex abuse by priests .
Church officials in Belgium , Germany and Ireland also have openly criticized the Vatican for failing to come to terms with the crisis and for failing to help its victims .
Despite the criticism , a top cleric defended Pope Benedict 's handling of the scandal during Easter Sunday services .
Cardinal Angelo Sodano said the church should not be influenced by what he called " petty gossip . "
The West Indies cricket team has scored 281-4 by the close of play on the first day of its first test match against South Africa at St. George 's Park in Port Elizabeth .
Marlon Samuels led the visitors with 94 runs while captain Chris Gayle scored 66 runs on the easy-paced pitch .
Gayle , the opening batsman , had 13 fours and scored his runs off 49 balls in his first innings since injuring a right leg muscle against Zimbabwe nearly a month ago .
Samuels scored his runs in 267 minutes , facing 195 balls with 12 fours .
Bad light forced play to close six overs early .
The two sides will play three tests and five one-day internationals during the Caribbean squad 's tour .
The second test starts in Cape Town January second .
The third test begins January 10th in Durban .
A deadly explosion has hit a convoy escorting Somalia 's prime minister in the capital of Mogadishu , but he escaped unhurt and later appeared in public .
At least five people were killed Sunday when the explosion ripped through a vehicle carrying bodyguards , just moments after the prime minister had passed by .
News reports said the blast might have been from a land mine , remote-controlled bomb or rocket-launched grenade .
Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi was visiting the capital , an opposition stronghold , from his base in the town of Jowhar .
He later took part in a planned meeting .
Mr. Gedi escaped unharmed from another deadly blast in Mogadishu when he visited in May .
Somalia has had no effective central government since 1991 and has been ruled by warring factions .
Haiti 's top appeals court has ruled that a businessman with dual U.S. and Haitian citizenship should be allowed to run for president .
In a ruling published Thursday , the court rejected a petition from Haiti 's Provisional Election Board , which argued against allowing businessman Dumarsais Simeus to run for president because he held U.S. citizenship .
The board was appealing a court decision in October to allow Mr. Simeus to run .
Last week , Prime Minister Gerard Latortue told VOA that after the elections , he would support a constitutional amendment allowing Haitians with dual citizenship to vote and run for all offices .
The first presidential and legislative elections in Haiti since former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was ousted in a revolt early last year are scheduled for January 8 with possible runoffs one week later .
U.S. Secretary of State is in India for the start of a six-nation tour of Asia .
Her New Delhi talks with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh are expected to focus on India and Pakistan 's relations .
Ms. Rice says those nations ' strong ties with the United States have helped them ease tensions with each other .
After her talks in New Delhi , Ms. Rice heads to Pakistan and Afghanistan before traveling to Japan , South Korea and China .
She says that China 's new law authorizing military action against Taiwan could make Europe re-examine its decision to resume weapons sales to China .
North Korea 's nuclear weapons program is expected to be the focus of her meetings in Tokyo , Seoul and Beijing .
Ms. Rice stressed that the United States believes the six-party framework is the best way to deal with the issue .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says he will try to form a governing coalition with the opposition Labor Party .
Mr. Sharon was speaking a day after dismissing his main coalition partner , the Shinui Party , over its opposition to the 2005 state budget .
The move left Mr. Sharon in control of only 40 of the 120 seats in parliament .
Mr. Sharon said he intends to press ahead with plans to withdraw from the Gaza Strip next year , a plan that could run into trouble if he is forced to call early national elections .
He also said Palestinian militant Marwan Barghouti will remain in jail despite his plans to run in the Palestinian Authority presidential election on January 9 .
The U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency says he is " fairly confident " the IAEA board will report Iran to the United Nations Security Council next month .
Ambassador Greg Schulte told VOA 's Persian service Tuesday that in recent talks about the Iranian nuclear standoff , U.S. , European , Russian and Chinese envoys have discussed gradually increasing diplomatic pressure on Tehran if it fails to suspend its uranium enrichment activities .
Russia and China oppose U.N. sanctions on Iran , and they have urged Europe and the United States to first use diplomacy .
But Mr. Schulte said Moscow and Beijing also are growing increasingly frustrated with Iran 's recent actions .
Iran broke the seals on its uranium enrichment facilities earlier this month , effectively ending a two-year moratorium on its nuclear fuel research .
Tehran insists its nuclear program is peaceful .
Islamic clerics in Afghanistan are warning the country 's president to stop foreign aid groups from doing missionary work in the country .
Members of the Afghanistan Islamic Council say they are concerned about the activities of some international non-governmental groups that are trying to convert Afghan Muslims to Christianity .
The group made the statement after meeting with Afghan President Hamid Karzai on Friday .
The clerics warned of what they called " catastrophe " if the activities were not prevented .
Taliban militants took some 23 South Korean Christian missionaries hostage in July 2007 , killing two and releasing the remainder .
Afghanistan 's Islamic Council also urged President Karzai to crack down on certain television programming that it says is spreading immorality and non-Islamic culture in the country .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 282-4 - a lead of 213 runs - on a rain-interrupted fourth day of the second test against India in Sydney .
Mike Hussey was on 87 and Andrew Symonds was on 14 at stumps after officials rejected Anil Kumble 's appeal for Symonds to be out lbw .
Earlier , Kumble dismissed Matthew Hayden and Michael Clarke on consecutive balls .
Hayden scored 123 runs in Australia 's second innings before he was caught out .
Clarke was out for no runs .
Australia is hoping to win a record-tying 16th test match in a row after taking the first test of this tour by 337 runs in Melbourne .
Nine workers are still reported missing in a flooded railroad tunnel in central China .
The official Xinhua news agency said 52 people were at work building the tunnel early Sunday when water began pouring in .
43 of the workers were rescued .
Officials are using pumps and boats to try to locate the missing workers .
The 14-kilometer-long tunnel is part of a rail line linking Yichang City in Hubei Province with Wanzhou in southwest China .
Heavy rains in recent weeks have triggered flooding and mudslides across central China .
Xinhua says 78 people died and 18 are missing after three days of downpours set off flash floods last week in Henan province .
Floods in China have killed more than 700 people this year .
Millions of people face shortages of drinking water in other parts of the country because of high temperatures and record droughts .
The United States ' director of national intelligence , John Negroponte , has created a new position to lead U.S. intelligence efforts regarding Cuba and Venezuela .
Negroponte 's office announced the move on Friday .
The United States also has special missions for intelligence on Iran and North Korea .
The statement said intelligence officer Patrick Maher will serve as Cuba-Venezuela mission manager until a permanent manager is named .
The manager will be responsible for overseeing data collection and analysis , filling intelligence gaps , and putting intelligence strategies into place .
U.S. focus on Cuba policy has increased since last month , when leader Fidel Castro announced he was temporarily handing power to his brother and chosen successor while undergoing health care .
Venezuela 's president Hugo Chavez is an outspoken critic of U.S. leadership .
International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge has rejected accusations that British Prime Minister Tony Blair broke the rules in his attempts to help London win the bid to host the 2012 Summer Games .
Paris mayor Bertrand Delanoe said Blair and London bid chief Sebastian Coe " crossed over the line " by criticizing other bid candidates .
Paris officials were also reportedly upset that the British prime minister met privately with IOC members in his hotel suite in Singapore in an effort to persuade them to vote for London .
IOC president Jacques Rogge has already said none of the cities broke rules designed to stamp out corruption in the bidding process .
In his words , " There is nothing wrong with having a conversation with a major politician from a bid city . "
Rogge also made it clear that he sees no reason to move the Games from London in the wake of terrorist bombings there .
The U.S. Secretary of State says World AIDS Day Thursday , is an opportunity for people to rededicate themselves to action in the fight against the disease .
In a videotaped message discussing this year 's theme of " Keeping the Promise , " Condoleezza Rice said that America is leading the battle against AIDS in more than 100 countries .
Ms. Rice noted that President Bush 's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief is the largest international initiative ever undertaken by a single nation to combat a disease .
That plan , announced nearly three years ago , is a five-year , $ 15 billion effort focusing on the 15 hardest-hit nations in Africa , Asia and the Caribbean .
World AIDS Day is being commemorated in cities and towns across America with special musical and literary events , moments of silence and fundraisers .
President Bush spoke Thursday morning in Washington to commemorate World AIDS Day .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is introducing a series of measures aimed at fighting inflation and boosting the nation 's economy .
In announcing an economic stimulus package , President Chavez said Wednesday that he will create a $ 1 billion fund to encourage joint public-private projects in sectors such as food and manufacturing .
The president also said a 1.5 percent tax on financial transactions for businesses would be eliminated on the grounds it was causing inflation .
Inflation has been accelerating while economic growth dropped to 4.8 percent in the first quarter of this year .
The South American oil-exporting country 's inflation rate is the highest in the region , climbing to 31.4 percent last month .
In April , Venezuela said it planned to sell $ 3 billion worth of government bonds on local markets , in a bid to slow inflation and strengthen the currency , known as the strong bolivar .
Iraqi authorites say at least 10 people were killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a police academy south of Baghdad .
The attack in the town of Hilla Wednesday occured as Iraq 's interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi insisted that the country 's January 30 elections would take place as scheduled .
Mr. Allawi told reporters in Baghdad that " violence , terrorists and the outlaws will not be allowed to stop the political process and destroy the country . "
Hours earlier , a car bomb explosion in Baghdad 's Amiriyah neighborhood killed two civilians and wounded four others .
Tuesday , insurgents shot dead Ali al-Haidari , the Baghdad provincial governor , and also carried out a suicide truck bombing at a security checkpoint that killed 10 people .
Palestinian militant Marwan Barghouti , imprisoned in Israel , has reversed himself and decided to seek the presidency of the Palestinian Authority .
Late last week , Barghouti , who is serving five life sentences for planning suicide attacks on Israeli civilians , said he would not run .
But Wednesday his wife filed registration papers for the January 9 poll on behalf of her husband , a Fatah movement leader .
Analysts have warned that Barghouti 's candidacy could split the Fatah organization and undermine its chosen candidate , interim leader Mahmoud Abbas .
Mr. Abbas began his campaign for the presidency today , hours before the Barghouti announcement .
Earlier Wednesday , the radical Palestinian group Hamas said it will boycott the polls .
The group said it will not nominate a presidential candidate because it rejects the 1993 treaty with Israel that created the Palestinian Authority .
Georgian officials say an explosion killed the mayor of a small town and one other person Saturday near the breakaway region of Abkhazia .
The Interior Ministry said it suspects the explosives were detonated by remote control , and blames the attack on Abkhaz separatists .
The blast hit as officials in the town of Mujhava inspected a house that was damaged in an earlier grenade attack .
Tensions have been high in Abkhazia and in another breakaway region , South Ossetia .
Russian forces swept into Georgia in August after Georgian troops tried to regain control of South Ossetia .
Russian soldiers withdrew from most of Georgia earlier this month , but remain in the breakaway regions .
Costa Rican elections officials have formally declared Nobel Peace laureate Oscar Arias the country 's president-elect .
Tuesday 's announcement came more than a month after the election .
Arias won the original vote by a very narrow margin , and a dispute over the results forced a manual recount .
After weeks of feuding , Arias ' main rival - Otton Solis of the Citizens ' Action Party - conceded defeat on Friday .
Mr. Arias supports free trade with the United States .
Costa Rica , however , is the only country within the Central American Free Trade Agreement , or CAFTA , that has not yet ratified the agreement .
CAFTA also comprises El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras , Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic .
A reformist candidate in Iran 's upcoming presidential race is vowing to reverse current President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's policies if elected .
Moderate cleric Mahdi Karroubi said Tuesday that Mr. Ahmadinejad has pushed Iran into international isolation .
He said he would favor more diplomatic policies that would engage with world powers .
The former parliament speaker said Mr. Ahmadinejad needlessly antagonizes the West by claiming the Holocaust is a myth , calling the president 's comments " uncalculated " and " harmful " to Iran 's interests .
Karroubi is one of four candidates running in Iran 's presidential elections on June 12 .
Reformist candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi is considered to be the leading challenger to Mr. Ahmadinejad .
Hadson Corp. said it expects to report a third-quarter net loss of $ 17 million to $ 19 million because of special reserves and continued low natural-gas prices .
The Oklahoma City energy and defense concern said it will record a $ 7.5 million reserve for its defense group , including a $ 4.7 million charge related to problems under a fixed-price development contract and $ 2.8 million in overhead costs that wo n't be reimbursed .
In addition , Hadson said it will write off about $ 3.5 million in costs related to international exploration leases where exploration efforts have been unsuccessful .
The company also cited interest costs and amortization of goodwill as factors in the loss .
A year earlier , net income was $ 2.1 million , or six cents a share , on revenue of $ 169.9 million .
U.S. intelligence analysts say the voice on an audiotape purportedly from al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden is indeed that of the terrorist leader .
The tape - first broadcast Thursday by Arab broadcaster Al-Jazeera - says there are plans for a new attack in the United States , but offers a " long-term " truce if American forces pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan .
The White House flatly rejected the offer , with a spokesman saying the United States does not negotiate with terrorists .
The message says heightened security in the United States has not prevented attacks .
It says the delay is simply due to preparations for new operations .
There has been no specific information on when the tape was recorded , but the voice makes reference to sinking public opinion polls for President Bush .
This is Osama bin Laden 's first message since December , 2004 .
Ghana 's leading opposition party has protested the government 's plans for disbursing $ 500 million of U.S. funding .
The National Democratic Congress ( NDC ) said it will send a letter to the U.S. Congress contesting the Ghanaian government 's exclusion of two poor regions from its spending plans for Millenium Challenge Account money .
A spokesman for the NDC , Haruna Idrissu , said the Upper East and Upper West regions of Ghana are among the country 's poorest and should meet the criteria for receiving aid .
A smaller opposition party , the People 's National Convention , has joined the protest and says it will also send a letter to the U.S. Congress .
Ghana is one of 13 African countries eligible to receive funds from the Millenium Challenge Account .
The United States established the program to help countries fight poverty and encourage good governance .
The Organization of American States has agreed to oversee Venezuela 's upcoming Congressional elections on December 4 .
Ruben Perina , the OAS mission chief in Venezuela , said election authorities have agreed to give his organization free access to all necessary information and to the technology that will be used for voting .
Several opposition groups had called for outside observers , arguing that the Venezuelan electoral commission is biased in favor of President Hugo Chavez 's ruling party .
Several other opposition parties have called for a boycott of the vote .
Mr. Chavez 's party hopes to expand its slim majority in the Congress to two-thirds of the seats .
Such an increase would make it easier to pass constitutional reforms .
European Union peacekeepers in Bosnia-Herzegovina have raided the homes of relatives of most wanted Balkan war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic .
Soldiers and police simultaneously searched the homes of Karadzic 's wife , son and daughter in the former Bosnian Serb stronghold of Pale , 16 kilometers southeast of Sarajevo .
EU troops conducted similar raids in Pale on Monday .
Officials say the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague ordered the searches to find clues about Karadzic 's whereabouts .
The former Bosnian Serb political leader has been in hiding for more than 12 years since the Hague-based court indicted him .
Karadzic is charged with war crimes , genocide , crimes against humanity and severe breaches of the Geneva Conventions during the 1990s ethnic conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Karadzic 's military commander , General Ratko Mladic - the second most wanted Bosnian war crimes suspect - also remains in hiding .
Liberia 's government has announced that electricity will be restored to parts of the capital , Monrovia , by the end of July .
The director of the Liberia Electricity Corporation , Harry Yuan , told VOA that his company will turn on the lights July 26 .
The day marks Liberia 's 159th anniversary of independence .
The public utility has not operated since the civil war broke out in the west African country 14 years ago .
Yuan says Britain has supplied two generators to help power the system , and Ghana provided electric poles .
He said two sections of the capital , either the Paynesville or Congotown neighborhoods and areas near the John F. Kennedy Hospital , will be the first to receive electricity .
Liberia 's new electrical system will be compatible with 220 volt European systems .
The country 's previous system was compatible with the 110 volt U.S. system .
Lebanese Prime Minister-designate Omar Karami resigned Wednesday after failing to form a government to lead the country to elections in May .
Mr. Karami says he " reached a dead end " in consultations to form a cabinet .
The pro-Syrian politician first stepped down on February 28 following a wave of anti-Syrian demonstrations .
He was re-appointed in March , but could not form a government including members of Lebanon 's anti-Syrian opposition .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice welcomed his latest resignation as an opportunity for Lebanon to move forward and determine its own future , free of outside interference .
She says there is no reason for further delays in Lebanon 's political process .
Wednesday 's events come as Lebanese observed the 1975 outbreak of the country 's 15-year civil war with a day of reconciliation , celebrating Muslim-Christian unity .
Colombian police have deactivated two explosive devices found on a highway in northern Bogota .
Authorities discovered the devices Saturday , following a tip from someone who noticed a suspicious bag and suitcase lying by a street light .
They say the devices each contained three kilograms of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil , known as anfo .
Police secured the area in order to deactivate the devices , triggering traffic backups .
Canada 's foreign ministry says seven Canadian citizens have been killed by Israeli air strikes in Lebanon and three other Canadians have been wounded .
On Sunday , Israeli forces hit the house where the Canadians were staying in southern Lebanon , near the Israeli border .
Earlier , Canadian foreign minister Peter MacKay said eight Canadians had died in Lebanon , but a spokesperson , citing updated information , late Sunday revised the number to seven .
Lebanese police said at least five of the Canadians were from the same family .
News reports said the family was vacationing in Lebanon .
The Israeli Army issued a statement saying it had warned civilians to get out of the area because it was used by Hezbollah to fire missiles into Israel .
The statement said responsibility for the deaths rests entirely with Hezbollah .
U.S. and Iraqi troops have carried out airstrikes in the Euphrates River Valley , killing 37 insurgents .
The U.S. military says coalition air strikes hit five targets in a small western town near the Syrian border .
Officials say 25 insurgents were captured .
Monday 's airstrikes were part of Operation Steel Curtain , which began last week to stem the flow of insurgents and supplies from across the border , ahead of next month 's parliamentary elections .
In central Baghdad , authorities say two South African security guards were killed in a car bomb explosion near the heavily fortified Green Zone , where the headquarters of the Iraqi government , U.S. forces and most foreign missions are located .
Three others were wounded .
Separately in the western town of Ramadi , police say a roadside bomb exploded shortly after a US convoy passed , killing five people and wounding at least 20 others .
The International Monetary Fund says the U.S. economy is poised for a gradual , if sluggish , recovery .
The IMF issued its revised forecast Friday , predicting flat economic growth for the U.S. this year , and two percent growth in 2009 .
In April , the Fund 's economists had predicted the U.S. economy would contract slightly and warned the U.S. credit crisis was threatening to cause a global recession .
But Friday 's report said the U.S. slowdown had been " less than feared . "
The IMF praised the Federal Reserve 's handling of the financial crisis and urged the U.S. central bank to keep interest rates low .
However , the IMF also said the Federal Reserve may need to act quickly and raise interest rates to counter the threat of inflation .
An IMF official , First Deputy Managing Director John Lipsky , also said the U.S. may face further fallout from rising fuel and commodity prices .
Venezuela 's National Assembly has voted to approve a request by President Hugo Chavez to allow him to enact laws by decree for one year .
Lawmakers voted in President Chavez 's favor Tuesday following the first discussion on the proposal .
Reports say a final vote on the controversial measure is expected later this week .
Vice President Elias Jaua made the request earlier in the day on behalf of the president .
The measure was presented to the outgoing National Assembly , which is dominated by President Chavez 's allies .
In 1993 , 14 imprisoned Buddhist nuns secretly recorded protest songs and smuggled the tape out of Drapchi Prison in Tibet .
When word of the recording got out , the nuns say Chinese authorities added five to nine years to their sentences .
Seven nuns eventually were released , but remain in Tibet .
One died in custody and six others now live in exile .
Four are currently visiting London to help raise awareness of the Tibetan struggle for independence and religious freedom .
Catherine Drew has more .
European football 's governing body UEFA has barred Israel from hosting international matches until further notice because of the violence in the region .
In a letter sent to the Israel Football Association Monday , UEFA said all games scheduled to be played in Israel " shall be played outside of Israeli territory . "
The ban applies to international and club games .
That means Israel 's Maccabi Haifa will need to find an alternate venue for its August 23 second leg of the Champions League third qualifying-round series against Liverpool of England .
Also affected is the second-leg UEFA Cup game between Israeli club Betar Jerusalem and Dinamo Bucharest of Romania , which was scheduled to be held in Jerusalem on August 24 .
The decision could also impact Israel 's home qualifying matches for the Euro 2008 tournament .
World Health Organization officials are meeting in Geneva to consider the possibility of a global human bird flu pandemic as the deadly H5N1 strain continues to spread rapidly in birds .
Top influenza official Margaret Chan said the outbreak in poultry is historically unprecedented .
She said the deadly virus presents a greater challenge to the world than any other emerging infectious disease .
The meeting was called to plan a response in case the bird flu virus mutates into a widespread human flu virus .
So far , the virus has killed 94 people , mostly in Asia .
It has infected birds in 30 countries , and it has appeared in cats in Austria and Germany .
French officials confirmed a new case in a dead swan .
Russian news agencies reported Monday mass deaths of birds in the south in Stavropol Territory , and Serbia confirmed it in dead swans in several areas .
The International Court of Justice has dismissed a case filed by Serbia and Montenegro that accused eight NATO countries of genocide for the 1999 airstrike campaign against Yugoslavia .
The court in the Hague , which is the top legal body of the United Nations , ruled Wednesday it has no jurisdiction in the case .
It said that at the time of the airstrikes , the jurisdiction of Serbia and Montenegro was not a U.N. member and thus not a party to the court 's statute .
The unanimous court decision involved Belgrade 's complaint against Belgium , Britain , Canada , France , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands and Portugal .
NATO initiated the airstrike campaign in response to the Kosovo crisis , forcing Serbian and Yugoslav troops out of the Serbian province .
A top member of the Obama administration begins a visit to the Middle East Sunday to discuss global security .
U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano will travel to Saudi Arabia to meet with top security officials about counter-terrorism , counter-radicalization and infrastructure protection .
She will also talk to businesswomen about the importance of education and public service .
Napolitano will travel on Monday to the United Arab Emirates .
There she will discuss ways to bolster global aviation security with her Middle Eastern counterparts and officials of the International Civil Aviation Organization .
French oil group Total says it has not made any new acquisitions or investments in Burma since 1998 , after French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday urged the company to freeze investments in the southeast Asian country .
Total defended its business in Burma , saying companies that would take their place in the country may be less ethical .
The French oil giant directly employs at least 240 people in Burma , and operates the Yadana offshore gas field , selling the majority of its product to Thailand .
Chevron , a U.S. oil company , also has a stake in the Yadana project .
Critics say the money brought in by foreign investors like Total keeps the current military regime in power .
Burma is thought to have substantial supplies of natural gas and oil that have attracted energy companies from China , India , and Malaysia .
Cuban state television says Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has made a surprise visit to Cuba to meet with his friend and ally , Cuban leader Fidel Castro .
The media report Tuesday said Mr. Chavez also is to meet with acting Cuban President Raul Castro , who has been head of the Cuban government since Fidel Castro temporarily transferred power to him last July after undergoing intestinal surgery .
Last week , Bolivian President Evo Morales was on the island for meetings with Fidel and Raul Castro .
He said Fidel appears to have recovered well from the surgery .
Cuban television recently broadcast Fidel Castro 's first television interview since the surgery .
In the pre-recorded piece , Fidel spoke slowly and did not say whether he plans to resume the day-to-day duties as president .
The 80-year-old Cuban leader has not appeared in public since the transfer of power last year .
Russian news reports say two people were killed and several others wounded in a bomb blast in Abkhazia during Wednesday 's visit by Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin .
Mr. Putin 's one-day trip to the Georgian breakaway territory was the first by a top Russian official since Moscow last year recognized Abkhazia 's independence after the five-day Russian-Georgian war .
The reports quote authorities as saying the blast in the resort town of Gagra killed a 52-year-old woman and wounded four others .
A second victim died later in a hospital .
Authorities say no one was hurt in the second blast , which occurred in the Abkhaz capital , Sukhumi , shortly after Mr. Putin departed the city and returned to the Russian Black Sea resort of Sochi .
A school teacher injured his back and had to wear a plaster cast around the upper part of his body .
It fit under his shirt and was not noticeable at all .
On the first day of the term , still with the cast under his shirt , he found himself assigned to the toughest students in school .
Walking confidently into the rowdy classroom , he opened the window as wide as possible and then busied himself with desk work .
When a strong breeze made his tie flap , he took the desk stapler and stapled the tie to his chest .
He had no trouble with discipline that term .
Cambodia has criticized a report from a top U.N. official that the Southeast Asian country could become a breeding ground for terrorists .
The chairman of the U.N. Security Council committee on al-Qaida , Heraldo Munoz , said Cambodia needed to tighten up its defense measures to protect itself from terrorist networks .
He said Phnom Penh lacks the resources to do so .
But Cambodian government officials dismissed the report , saying Phnom Penh is doing what it can to prevent terrorists from using the country as a base .
Cambodia is currently holding an Egyptian and two Thai nationals on suspicion of having links to terror groups .
Spain - which first brought tobacco back from America more than 500 years ago - has started off 2006 with new restrictions on smoking in public places .
Starting New Year 's Day , smoking is banned in Spain in offices , bus and subway stations , and other public places such as stores .
Bars and restaurants with more than 1,100 square meters must have separate non-smoking areas .
Spain has Europe 's second highest rate of smoking after Greece .
Government health officials say cigarettes kill 50,000 Spaniards a year , Despite complaints from some smokers and business owners , one poll says more than 70 percent of Spaniards approve of the new restrictions .
New anti-smoking laws also took effect New Year 's Day in Belgium .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says he expects to withdraw his troops from Lebanon in a matter of months .
In a Time magazine interview published Tuesday , Mr. Assad did not give a timetable for pulling out the 14,000 Syrian troops , but said it should be " very soon . "
Meanwhile , in Beirut , thousands of protesters vowed to keep up demonstrations until Syria gets its troops out of Lebanon .
Earlier this week , Lebanon 's pro-Syrian government resigned as the protesters packed Beirut streets over the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The killing has increased pressure on Syria to end its long involvement in its neighbor 's affairs .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , in London for a Palestinian conference , issued a joint statement with French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier Tuesday , calling for an immediate Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon .
China is criticizing U.S. moves aimed at protecting the domestic textile industry .
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang says Washington 's actions are unreasonable and protectionist .
Monday the U.S. Commerce Department said it has begun an investigation into whether a recent surge in Chinese textile imports is disrupting the U.S. market .
The review is the first step in a process that could lead to the re-imposition of quotas on certain products .
The investigation will cover imports of trousers , knit shirts , and underwear .
Imports of trousers rose 1,500 percent in the first quarter of this year over the same period last year .
Imports of knit shirts were up 1,250 percent .
A global quota system on textile imports expired at the end of 2004 .
Indian authorities Tuesday seized more than $ 2 million in cash from a Nigerian diplomat on his way out of the country .
Investigators in New Delhi released the Nigerian diplomat , G.A .
Ojedokun , Tuesday .
He was detained at an airport in the capital on Monday after security screeners found $ 2.3 million in cash in his baggage .
Authorities who interrogated the diplomat refused to allow him to board his flight to Lagos , Nigeria .
They say he failed to adequately explain why he was traveling with so much cash .
Officials released the man Tuesday after he demanded diplomatic immunity , but they refused to return the cash .
They add they have informed Nigerian authorities about the incident .
The diplomat has been stationed in New Delhi since early this year .
There was no immediate comment from the Nigerian government .
Hundreds of Afghans have staged a protest in central Afghanistan denouncing a spate of suicide bombings that many demonstrators are blaming on Pakistan .
Protesters gathered in the city of Ghazni Saturday , 120 kilometers southwest of the capital , Kabul .
At least 13 suicide bombings have struck Afghanistan in the last several months , including last Monday when more than 20 people were killed in a town near the border with Pakistan .
Afghan protesters accuse officials in neighboring Pakistan of aiding suspected terrorists behind such bombings .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has expressed concern over the increase of suicide bombings , saying Afghanistan and the international community are in a joint struggle against terrorism .
He says if Western countries do not fight terrorism in Afghanistan , they will have to deal with it in their own capitals .
Iran 's official media are reporting that a high-ranking Iranian naval commander attended a meeting on regional piracy where U.S. Navy commanders were present .
The dispatch Thursday in Iran is the first public word that navy officers of both countries were present in Sri Lanka earlier this month in discussions on fighting piracy in the Gulf of Aden .
The report says representatives of 22 countries , including the U.S. , Britain , France and Russia , attended the meeting .
Iran says the discussions were part of a multi-national celebration of the 60th anniversary of Sri Lanka 's navy .
Iran opposes the presence of the U.S. Navy fleet in the Persian Gulf , and the two countries have had no diplomatic ties since 1979 .
The president of the International Committee of the Red Cross says his organization is in intense dialogue with U.S. authorities to gain access to all detainees held under the struggle against terrorism .
Jakob Kallenberger told reporters in Geneva the Red Cross has visited many detainees at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba , in Afghanistan and in Iraq .
He says his group has been pressing for two years to gain access to detainees in undisclosed locations .
U.S. State Department legal advisor John Bellinger acknowledged to reporters Thursday that the United States has not granted the Red Cross access to all detainees .
He did not elaborate .
U.S news reports last month said the United States has held detainees at secret locations in Europe .
A spokesman for the group Human Rights Watch told a Warsaw newspaper Poland was the main center for detaining such suspects .
A CONVENTION of female writers , which for two days had been stuffing Woman 's couch with goose-quills and hailing the down of a new era , adjourned with unabated enthusiasm , shouting , " Place aux dames ! "
And Echo wearily replied , " Oh , damn . "
A committee of the U.S. congress has voted to create a new federal agency to regulate the financial industry .
The House Financial Services Committee voted mostly along party lines ( 39-29 ) Thursday to establish the Consumer Financial Protection Agency .
This is a step in congressional efforts to enact President Barack Obama 's plan to improve regulation in the wake of the economic crisis .
Supporters say the agency would protect consumers from lenders who mislead customers , banks that charge large fees for overdrafts , or raise interest rates in unreasonable ways .
Opponents say the agency would be unwarranted government intrusion in business .
The next step for the bill would be a vote before the full House .
A joint force of U.N. and Congolese troops has attacked Ugandan rebels in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
U.N. sources say the attacks in North Kivu province Sunday were against the Allied Democratic Forces , a Ugandan rebel group that maintains bases in the DRC .
This is the second U.N.-Congolese offensive against militias in the region since the DRC 's constitutional referendum a week ago .
The troops hope to assert government control in areas dominated for years by foreign-backed rebels or local militias .
The U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo says U.N. and Congolese troops captured the town of Nioka from ethnic Lendu rebels on Saturday .
Partial returns from last week 's vote show DRC voters approving the new constitution 83 to 17 percent .
The charter is designed to pave the way for national elections and help end decades of chaos and war .
NATO-led peacekeeping troops in Afghanistan have reached the wreckage of an Afghan airliner that crashed into a mountain during a snowstorm last week , apparently killing everyone on board .
Coalition spokesman Major Joseph Bowman told reporters in Kabul that a small team of medics and other experts reached the site Monday as weather cleared .
NATO helicopters spotted the wreckage Saturday , but could not take the recovery team to site because of fog , subzero temperatures and up to two meters of snow .
The Kam Air flight , which originated in the western Afghan city of Herat , had 104 people on board .
The Boeing 737 jet crashed Thursday while approaching Kabul .
The proposed U.S. budget for fiscal year 2008 includes money for fighting malaria and HIV and to support democratic programs abroad .
The White House says the budget provides more than $ 4 billion for treatment and prevention of HIV in the world 's hardest hit countries , and more than $ 1 billion for HIV-AIDS programs worldwide .
Three hundred million dollars is for fighting malaria worldwide .
The White House says the budget also includes support for humanitarian and peacekeeping efforts in Sudan , as well as for Lebanon to help it strengthen government capacity , promote economic reform , and support its security forces .
The budget calls for $ 3 billion for the Millennium Challenge to promote sustainable economic growth in the poorest countries in the world .
The budget also allots $ 80 million to the private , nonprofit National Endowment for Democracy to promote democratic programs and institutions .
Afghan officials say suspected Taleban militants have killed five Afghan security men in separate attacks in the south of the country .
In one incident , a roadside bomb killed three Afghan troops Thursday in Ghazni province .
In the other attack , officials say Taleban rebels shot dead two Afghan policemen in Kandahar province late Wednesday .
Another roadside bomb blast wounded four coalition troops Wednesday in the southern province of Zabul .
A coalition official says the four soldiers were not seriously wounded and were likely to be released from a hospital .
But , Afghan officials say they prevented a bomb attack Thursday in southern province of Zabul , where police caught a donkey laden with explosives .
They say a man was detained after he walked the donkey into the town of Qalat from the surrounding countryside .
U.S. media reports say a severe snowstorm that has battered the central United States in recent days has contributed to at least four deaths .
The deaths were blamed on slippery roads in the Plains states of South Dakota , Nebraska and Kansas .
Blizzard-like conditions and high winds in the region have forced the closure of schools and government buildings , and have left many people without electricity .
Highways have been shut down because of impassable conditions and poor visibility , forcing travelers trying to get home after last week 's Thanksgiving holiday to head to shelters , motels and churches .
This is the season 's first major snowstorm to hit the region .
In another weather-related death , a person was killed when a tornado picked up a car and flipped it in the southern state of Arkansas .
A Tony Award-winning musical " Spring Awakening " explores the stage in adolescence when the discovery of sexuality brings sudden changes .
Based on a 19th century German play , the musical is set to a rock and roll score and examines the tortured inner lives of a group of adolescents .
VOA 's Zhang Zheng and Joseph Mok have this report from Broadway , narrated by Elaine Lu .
Spider-Man 3 spun a solid gold web in Asia , setting box-office records in Japan , South Korea , and Hong Kong .
The special effects-laden thriller took in an estimated $ 3.5 million in its first day of Japanese release , while grossing $ 3.4 million in South Korea .
Both figures top opening day tallies for the first two entries in the series .
It also enjoyed the largest opening-day performance for any film in Hong Kong and South Korean history .
Turkish authorities say a large explosion in Ankara has killed four people .
Ankara 's mayor , Melih Gokcek , says the blast wounded more than 50 others in a busy shopping area of the capital city .
Police say they believe a bomb caused the explosion .
A European Union adviser says the Palestinian Authority will ask international donors for $ 187 million in aid to support security in the Palestinian territories .
The head of the EU police training mission in Palestinian territories , Colin Smith , says the aid will go towards police training as well as the construction of police stations , prisons , courts and a forensics laboratory .
Smith says the bulk of the money will come from the more than $ 7 billion already pledged to the Palestinian Authority .
The request will be presented next week at an international security conference in Berlin , Germany .
Kyrgyzstan 's interim government says it has formally asked Belarus to extradite ousted President Kurmanbek Bakiyev .
The deputy leader of the interim government , Azimbek Beknazarov , said Friday that the request has been sent to Belarus , where Mr. Bakiyev took refuge last month .
Mr. Bakiyev fled Kyrgyzstan after he was toppled on April 7 during massive protests that killed 85 people .
The opposition took power after the president was ousted amid allegations of corruption and nepotism .
The interim government has charged Mr. Bakiyev with mass killing , accusing him of ordering security forces to open fire on anti-government protesters during the uprising .
On Thursday , the international police agency Interpol said it has issued an arrest warrant for one of Mr. Bakiyev 's sons , Maksim , on fraud charges .
The Kyrgyz interim government this week offered cash rewards for information leading to fugitive relatives and colleagues of the deposed leader , including Maksim Bakiyev .
An advisor to chief United Nations war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte says she will criticize Serbia 's lack of cooperation with the Hague war crimes tribunal when she reports to the Security Council Thursday .
Anton Nikiforov made his comments in The Hague as Ms. del Ponte prepared to deliver her assessment to the council .
Anxious to display cooperation , authorities in Serbia and Montenegro last week gave the prosecutors a secret file on top fugitive war crimes suspect General Ratko Mladic , including a number of pages they earlier had withheld .
But Mr. Nikiforov said the file still lacked such important information as the general 's promotion record during the mid-1990s in the midst of the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The Hague tribunal indicted the general in 1995 on charges involving his role in attacks on civilians during the Bosnian conflict .
Landslides and flash floods triggered by Typhoon Muifa have killed at least 33 people in Vietnam 's Central Highlands .
Torrential rains hit Vietnam 's central region last week , and floods submerged more than 10,000 houses while paralyzing rail traffic .
Four provinces , Quang Ngai , Quang Nam , Thua Thien Hue and Quang Tri were hardest-hit .
Authorities in the region are continuing to evacuate people from flooded areas and provide victims with food , medicine and shelter .
Despite the flooding elsewhere , little rain has been reported over the past few days in the nearby province of Daklak , the country 's largest coffee growing region , and there have been no reports of damaged crops .
Forecasters predict only light rain from Muifa , now downgraded to a tropical storm , at it moves into the Gulf of Thailand .
Japan is calling on the United States to take thorough measures to prevent any further beef shipments containing banned animal matter that could cause " mad-cow " disease .
Agriculture Minister Shoichi Nakagawa made the demand Sunday during a meeting with a senior American official who is visiting Japan .
Robert Zoellick , the State Department 's second highest-ranking official deputy secretary of state , says an accidental shipment to Japan of veal containing prohibited bone material was an unacceptable mistake , and he expressed sincere regret on behalf of the United States .
Japan reimposed a total ban on U.S. beef imports Friday , after finding spinal material in a shipment of veal from New York .
The ban had been partially lifted just weeks ago .
The American Embassy in Tokyo says a high-level delegation led by Agriculture Undersecretary J. B. Penn will arrive in Japan Monday to discuss the situation .
Officials in Haiti say several days of heavy rains have killed at least 11 people , with nearly half the deaths occurring in the northern Artibonite area .
Authorities said Thursday that hundreds of homes have been flooded or destroyed by the torrential rains pounding Haiti ahead of the Atlantic hurricane season , which starts June 1 .
Last year , four storms devastated Haiti , killing hundreds of people and wiping out 15 percent of the country 's economic output .
Haiti is the Western Hemisphere 's poorest country .
It is vulnerable to floods in part because of massive deforestation and poorly constructed houses .
In April , Haiti received $ 324 million in new aid commitments from international donors .
Earlier this week , United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon named former U.S. President Bill Clinton as his special envoy to Haiti .
Both men visited Haiti in March to refocus international attention on restoring economic security to the Caribbean country .
Colombia has extradited 13 alleged drug traffickers to stand trial in U.S. courts in the states of Florida and New York .
Officials say the Colombian suspects were flown Wednesday to the United States , where they have been charged with cocaine trafficking and money laundering .
Colombian authorities say they have extradited at least 63 drug suspects to the United States this year .
In 1997 , Colombia restored a law to extradite nationals charged with drug offenses , which had been suspended amid a campaign of violence by Colombian drug cartels .
The prime minister of Nepal plans to give the U.S. president a Mount Everest rock as a symbol of concern about climate change .
Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal is scheduled to attend a United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York during the coming week .
He plans to present President Barack Obama with a stone from the summit of Mount Everest .
Everest is the world 's tallest mountain , at nearly 8,900 meters .
The World Wildlife Fund says Mr. Nepal will bring the memento to Mr. Obama as a " symbol of the melting Himalayas . "
Back in May , a Nepalese Sherpa climbed Everest for a record 19th time .
At the top , he unfurled a banner that read : " Stop Climate Change . "
Opposition supporters armed with sticks speed past a sign for ruling-party candidate Faure Gnassingbe
Togo 's interim leader , Abbas Bonfoh , says Sunday 's presidential elections will take place as scheduled , and he fired a powerful minister who called for a delay .
Interior Minister Francois Boko was fired Friday after calling for a transitional government , saying that holding the April 24 poll would be " suicidal " amid rising political tensions .
Hours later , the Togolese government announced Mr. Boko had been replaced .
Opposition leaders have held protests - during which several people were killed - saying that Togo is not ready to hold a free and fair election .
The country was thrown into chaos after the government installed the son of longtime leader Gnassingbe Eyadema after he died in February .
West African leaders pressured Togo to hold fresh elections .
The International Atomic Energy Agency 's 35-nation board is expected to vote Saturday on a motion that could eventually see Iran referred to the United Nations Security Council for its controversial nuclear activities .
The European Union proposed the motion Friday .
It puts off immediate referral to the Security Council , but leaves that option open .
It also condemns Iran for past violations of nuclear safeguards .
EU negotiators softened the draft resolution in an apparent effort to gain support from Russia and China , which both oppose referral to the Security Council .
Diplomats say Iran is threatening to resume sensitive uranium enrichment and to limit inspections if the IAEA adopts the resolution .
Tehran denies western accusations that it is secretly pursuing nuclear weapons .
The president of Venezuela , Hugo Chavez , is visiting Honduras and Nicaragua to discuss regional cooperation and energy deals .
Mr. Chavez was meeting Tuesday , with his Honduran counterpart , Manuel Zelaya , at the presidential residence in the capital , Tegucigalpa .
Mr. Chavez was previously in Guatemala , where he attended the presidential inauguration Monday of Alvaro Colom .
News reports say Mr. Chavez and his Honduran counterpart were to discuss a possible contract between Honduras and Petrocaribe , a Venezuelan initiative that allows the purchase of Venezuelan oil at preferential rates .
Mr. Chavez travels on to Nicaragua , where he is to meet with President Daniel Ortega .
Reports say the two will lay plans for the activities of the regional trade area called the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas , which includes Nicaragua , Bolivia , Venezuela and Cuba .
The top United Nations humanitarian official is demanding that Ivory Coast authorities punish those responsible for attacks on U.N. facilities last month .
On a visit to Abidjan Wednesday , Jan Egeland said the government has assured him that violence against civilian aid workers will not be repeated .
But Egeland of the U.N. undersecretary for Humanitarian Affairs , said such violence is criminal , and that the perpetrators should be arrested .
He added that the U.N. wants to continue helping the Ivorian people .
The U.N. has 7,000 peacekeepers in Ivory Coast and thousands more staff providing humanitarian assistance .
Protesters attacked U.N. buildings in January after international mediators called for parliament to be dissolved as part of the divided country 's peace process .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has sent Ivory Coast a bill for $ 3.5 million to pay for damages .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has postponed a planned visit to Canada , after rioting that began outside Paris last week spread through the city 's largely Muslim-inhabited suburbs .
Mr. de Villepin told lawmakers Wednesday the government is fully mobilized and that he is indefinitely postponing his planned trip .
Interior Minister Nikolas Sarkozy also canceled scheduled visits to Afghanistan and Pakistan next week .
Earlier , President Jacques Chirac called for calm and measures to bring the riots under control .
French police today said they detained 34 people in the sixth consecutive night of rioting .
Rioters torched cars and clashed with police who fired rubber bullets to disperse the crowds .
The violence began Thursday in the Parisian suburb of Clichy-sous-Bois , after two teenagers said to be of North African descent were electrocuted while hiding from police inside a power station .
Carib Indians occupied the islands for hundreds of years before the British began settlement in 1623 .
The islands became an associated state of the UK with full internal autonomy in 1967 .
The island of Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in 1971 .
Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved independence in 1983 .
In 1998 , a vote in Nevis on a referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell short of the two-thirds majority needed .
Nevis continues in its efforts to separate from Saint Kitts .
The European Union plans to re-impose sanctions on as much as $ 4 billion worth of U.S. goods after the World Trade Organization ruled that Washington has not ended illegal tax breaks for U.S. exporters .
A WTO panel issued the ruling Monday .
It gives Washington three months to bring its laws into compliance with treaty agreements or face retaliatory tariffs .
Washington had repealed the offending law , but the WTO says a replacement law is still unfair .
A suspected suicide bomb attack in Southern Afghanistan has killed at least 17 people and injured more than 40 others .
Officials say the bomb went off Monday in the middle of a crowded market area in Lashkar Gah , capital of Helmand province .
Interior Ministry spokesman Yousef Stanizai blamed the attack on " enemies of the state , " a phrase typically used to refer to Taleban insurgents .
" This is a terrorist act which has killed defenseless civilians and children , " he said .
Afghanistan 's insurgents are increasingly borrowing tactics from their counterparts in Iraq .
This was one of the bloodiest suicide attacks in Afghanistan to date , in what has already been the country 's deadliest year since U.S. forces ousted the Taleban regime in 2001 .
More than two thousand people , mostly militants , have killed since January .
Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the late 15th century , the islands ' sugar-based economy gave way to coffee and cocoa in the 19th century - all grown with plantation slave labor , a form of which lingered into the 20th century .
While independence was achieved in 1975 , democratic reforms were not instituted until the late 1980s .
The country held its first free elections in 1991 , but frequent internal wrangling between the various political parties precipitated repeated changes in leadership and two failed coup attempts in 1995 and 2003 .
The recent discovery of oil in the Gulf of Guinea promises to attract increased attention to the small island nation .
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper has arrived in Kandahar , Afghanistan , for an unannounced visit to Canadian troops stationed there .
Mr. Harper arrived at Kandahar air base Sunday in a Canadian military aircraft .
Journalists traveling with him had to agree not to break news of the trip until his visit was underway .
He said the trip is a way to show the Canadian troops their government and their country is behind them .
Mr. Harper said Canada 's mission in Afghanistan is its most significant international undertaking in decades .
He is expected to spend Monday visiting troops on the base and eating with them in the dining facilities .
Canada has about 2,300 members of its military in Afghanistan .
Ten Canadian soldiers and a diplomat have died there since early 2002 .
Wrestler Luo Meng has become the second Chinese Olympic hopeful to be banned for life after testing positive for a banned substance .
The state-run Xinhua news agency made the announcement Wednesday .
Luo tested positive for a banned diuretic that can be used to purge by-products of performance-enhancing drugs .
The wrestler 's coach , Zhang Hua , also received a permanent ban .
First-time offenders usually receive a two-year ban .
But Chinese officials have cracked down on doping ahead of the Beijing Games next month .
In March , China 's sports ministry said any national athlete who tested positive would be banned for life with their coach .
Luo followed top swimmer Ouyang Kunpeng , whose positive test for a banned steroid was confirmed last week with a lifetime ban .
The international police organization Interpol has issued a wanted notice for Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the leader of the al Qaida in Iraq terrorist network .
Interpol says Algerian officials requested a so-called Red Notice on the Jordanian-born terrorist in connection with the kidnapping and murder of two Algerian diplomats in Iraq last July .
Interpol officials said the notice will be distributed to its 184 member nations and will decrease the likelihood the suspect will be able to escape detection .
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is already the most wanted man in Iraq , with the United States offering a $ 25 million bounty for his capture .
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is also wanted in Jordan .
He claimed responsibility for organizing suicide attacks that killed 59 people at two luxury hotels in Amman last month .
A bomb blast late Tuesday in India 's northeastern state of Manipur killed at least 17 people and wounded more than 30 others .
Local police say the bomb was concealed in a motorcycle outside a police training center in the city of Imphal , the state capital .
Authorities say several people are in critical condition and the death toll is likely to rise .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack , but there are more than a dozen rebel groups operating in the region .
On Sunday , a grenade exploded outside the fortified home of Manipur 's chief minister , Okram Ibobi Singh .
No one was hurt .
Separatist violence in northeastern India has killed some 20,000 people since 1979 .
Health ministers from the Group of Eight nations have met in Moscow to discuss global cooperation in fighting infectious diseases such as bird flu and AIDS .
The meeting comes ahead of the G-8 summit that Russia will host in July , where health issues are expected to be high on the agenda .
The G-8 consists of the world 's seven leading industrialized nations , plus Russia .
U.S. Embassy officials in Ankara say two U.S. warplanes accidentally violated Turkish airspace last week near the Iraq border .
U.S. and Turkish officials said they are investigating the incident .
The Turkish military said on its Web site that two F-16s briefly crossed into Turkish airspace on May 24 .
Officials said the incursion lasted about four minutes .
The incursion happened in an area of southeast Turkey near where thousands of Turkish troops are reported to be gathering .
The airspace violation comes as speculation grows over whether Turkish troops will launch a cross-border operation against Kurdish militants in Iraq .
Last week , Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul said no plans were underway for such a raid .
The U.S. military said Thursday that four more American military personnel have been killed in Iraq .
Three American soldiers were killed Wednesday night in a roadside bomb blast in Baghdad .
A U.S. Marine was also killed Wednesday during combat operations in the volatile western city of Ramadi .
The latest casualties came on the same day as the deaths of 14 U.S. Marines and their civilian translator in a bomb blast near the town of Haditha , northwest of Baghdad .
In total , 25 American troops have been killed since Monday .
Violence Thursday also claimed at least eight Iraqis in reported attacks across the country .
Against this bloody backdrop , Iraq 's constitutional committee continued working to meet the August 15 deadline for drafting the country 's permanent constitution .
Members of the Palestinian 's Fatah party say they have agreed on a cabinet for Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia after days of negotiations and delays .
Mr. Qureia has been trying all week to get a new cabinet approved in the Palestinian parliament .
The prime minister abandoned his original cabinet list Monday after several legislators charged it had many corrupt officials , and threatened to vote it down .
Palestinian officials say the vote is now rescheduled for Thursday .
Mr. Qureia must step down if he fails to get his cabinet approved .
Two major U.S. airlines have won approval to merge .
United Airlines is to purchase Continental Airlines to create the world 's largest air carrier .
In order for the merger to overcome anti-trust concerns , rival Southwest Airlines had to be given take-off and landing rights at the international airport in Newark , New Jersey - just outside New York City .
The airport is a key Continental Airlines hub .
Shareholders are scheduled to meet September 17 to approve the deal .
This is the first major airline merger in the United States since 2008 when Delta Airlines acquired Northwest .
Government approval followed an antitrust review by the U.S. Justice Department .
The merger is expected to be completed by October 1 .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels say their meeting with Norway 's peace envoy has failed to reach a deal on a controversial government proposal to share the distribution of tsunami aid with them .
The head of the rebels ' political wing , S.P. Thamilselvan , made the remark after talks Wednesday with Norway 's Deputy Foreign Minister Vidar Helgesen in the northern town of Kilinochchi .
Mr. Helgesen met with President Chandrika Kumaratunga Tuesday .
The envoy said he will return to Colombo to clear up remaining obstacles , including a request from Sri Lanka 's Muslim minority to be included in the aid plan .
Last week , the ruling party 's main coalition partner quit the government over the joint aid plan .
The country 's influential Buddhist monks said such an agreement would help the rebels ' cause for a separate state .
Police in Iraq have found 14 bodies in northern Baghdad , including some that were blindfolded and shot execution-style .
Reports say the victims all appeared to be Iraqis .
Separately , at least seven Iraqi policemen were killed Friday and several others wounded in a bomb attack in the northern town of Tikrit .
An Iraqi Defense Ministry official said the attack occurred at a checkpoint in the city , about 130 kilometers north of Baghdad .
The blast , which targeted a minibus carrying police , is the latest attack in a wave of insurgent violence that followed last week 's announcement of a partial cabinet list .
On Thursday , at least 27 people were killed in a series of attacks against the country 's military and police forces .
The South African government has increased its offer to more than one million public service workers who are threatening to strike .
Following negotiations with union representatives Thursday , the government increased its monthly housing allowance offer to $ 95 from about $ 87 .
But the government did not change its pay raise offer of 7 percent .
The unions are demanding a pay raise of 8.6 percent , more than twice the rate of inflation , in addition to a higher housing allowance .
On Tuesday , civil service workers staged a one-day strike and held marches in Cape Town and Pretoria .
Officials say the strike affected schools and public offices , although essential services such as police and hospitals ran on reduced staffing .
Three years ago , public workers staged a crippling strike that shut down many schools and forced some hospitals to operate with minimal staff for several weeks .
Iraqi officials say a double suicide bombing south of Baghdad has killed at least 27 people and wounded more than 100 others .
Al-Qaida in Iraq has claimed responsibility for the attack , which occurred Monday in the town of Hillah .
Officials say two suicide bombers blew themselves up in a crowd of former police commandos who were protesting a decision to disband their unit .
Earlier , the terrorist group said it has launched an offensive to counter a joint U.S.-Iraqi operation aimed at rooting out insurgents from Baghdad .
Iraqi officials have said 40,000 Iraqi troops will take part in the operation , dubbed Operation Lightning .
The troops began setting up checkpoints and searching houses around Baghdad on Sunday .
Meanwhile , U.S. forces have released the head of Iraq 's top Sunni political party after a brief detention today .
The U.S.-led coalition says Mohsen Abdul-Hamid was detained by mistake .
Salma Hayek gave birth to a baby girl , Valentina Paloma Pinault , on September 21 .
" Mother and child are doing well , " said publicist Carl Ross in a statement .
No further details are released .
It is the first child for the 41-year-old actress , who is engaged to French businessman Francois-Henri Pinault .
Hayek , who has appeared in more than thirty films , is currently enjoying success as an executive producer of the hit U.S. TV series Ugly Betty .
She is also chief executive of Ventanazul , a production company she formed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer , Inc.
Pinault , 45 , is the chief executive officer for luxury goods company PPR SA , which owns such high end labels as Gucci , Yves Saint Laurent , Balenciaga , and Puma .
He has two children from a previous marriage which ended in divorce in 2004 .
Leaders of the Iraq Study Group have called on President Bush to implement all their recommendations about changing U.S. policy in Iraq .
The group 's co-chairman , former Congressman Lee Hamilton , told U.S. lawmakers Thursday that the proposals must be taken as a whole in order to be effective .
The bipartisan panel issued the report Wednesday , saying the situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating .
It called for enhanced diplomacy and the withdrawal of most U.S. combat troops in Iraq by early 2008 .
President Bush has said he will consider the report , as well as separate studies by other government agencies before making a decision .
Speaking to lawmakers Thursday , the group 's other co-chairman , former Secretary of State James Baker , called on both political parties and the American people to come together to support the proposals .
A series of internal e-mails reveals the government agency charged with responding to Hurricane Katrina was in a state of chaos before and after the storm devastated the U.S. Gulf Coast .
The e-mails among several high-ranking officials of the Federal Emergency Management Agency , including then-director Michael Brown , were released to U.S. Congressional investigators and copies were obtained by news organizations .
The messages show FEMA was overwhelmed by a host of issues , including communications failures and bureaucratic fights between the agency and the White House .
Mr. Brown resigned as FEMA director after he was roundly criticized for the agency 's slow response to the disaster .
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff is expected to be asked about the e-mails when he testifies before a congressional committee on Wednesday .
The Homeland Security department oversees FEMA .
Mexico City 's former mayor has officially registered as a candidate in next year 's presidential election .
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador signed up as a candidate for the Democratic Revolution Party 's nomination Saturday , making him the first person to register with the party .
Mr. Lopez Obrador addressed hundreds of supporters outside party offices , just one day after he stepped down as the capital city 's mayor .
The popular 51-year-old leads public opinion polls ahead of the 2006 presidential race .
President Vicente Fox is not eligible to run for re-election because Mexican law allows just one six-year term .
As an affluent , high-tech industrial society in the trillion-dollar class , Canada resembles the US in its market-oriented economic system , pattern of production , and affluent living standards .
Since World War II , the impressive growth of the manufacturing , mining , and service sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural economy into one primarily industrial and urban .
The 1989 US-Canada Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) and the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) ( which includes Mexico ) touched off a dramatic increase in trade and economic integration with the US , its principal trading partner .
Canada enjoys a substantial trade surplus with the US , which absorbs about three-fourths of Canadian exports each year .
Canada is the US 's largest foreign supplier of energy , including oil , gas , uranium , and electric power .
Given its great natural resources , skilled labor force , and modern capital plant , Canada enjoyed solid economic growth from 1993 through 2007 .
Buffeted by the global economic crisis , the economy dropped into a sharp recession in the final months of 2008 , and Ottawa posted its first fiscal deficit in 2009 after 12 years of surplus .
Canada 's major banks , however , emerged from the financial crisis of 2008 - 09 among the strongest in the world , owing to the financial sector 's tradition of conservative lending practices and strong capitalization .
During 2010 , Canada 's economy grew only 3 % , due to decreased global demand and a highly valued Canadian dollar .
Iraqi officials say a series of bombings at a sports facility in the predominately Shi'ite Turkmen town of Tal Afar killed at least 10 people Friday .
Investigators say the blasts took place at a field where a crowd had gathered to watch a football match .
Police say an attacker drove a vehicle near the crowd and detonated explosives .
They say two other suicide bombers then detonated explosives near spectators .
Authorities say more than 100 people were wounded .
Tal Afar is located in northern Iraq , near the city of Mosul .
European Union lawmakers say they hope to question two U.S. senators and the CIA director about reports of the agency 's use of secret prisons in Europe to house accused terrorists .
The head of a European Parliament committee , Italian lawmaker Giovanni Claudio Fava said the testimony would be part of a probe into the alleged prisons in eastern Europe .
He said European lawmakes will ask Senators John Kerry and John McCain , as well as CIA director Porter Goss , and his predecessor , George Tenet , to speak to the panel .
Officials say the interviews would be voluntary , because the panel has no legal authority to subpoena witnesses .
Testimony would also be sought from human rights groups that may have information about the reports of prisons used for terrorism suspects .
European lawmakers have raised concerns that the alleged action led to human rights violations .
Friends and family members of imprisoned opposition activists in Belarus have sent an open letter to G-8 leaders , calling on them to press for the release of the activists .
They also appealed to G-8 member countries to press Russian President Vladimir Putin to withdraw his support for Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko .
Mr. Lukashenko was elected to a third term in March in an election Western governments call fraudulent .
The open letter comes ahead of a summit in St. Petersburg of the world 's seven leading industrialized democracies plus Russia .
It also comes on the heels of the start of a trial of former opposition presidential candidate Alexander Kozulin .
Kozulin faces up to six years in prison if convicted on charges of hooliganism and incitement to mass disorder .
The charges are tied to the protests that followed the election .
Authorities declared the vote an overwhelming victory for President Lukashenko .
Israel 's opposition Labor Party is due to meet later Saturday to decide whether to join the ruling Likud Party in a coalition government .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon invited the Labor Party to join his government Friday , after his Likud party approved a move to reshape his ruling coalition .
Two religious parties were also asked to join the government .
Negotiations among the parties are expected to begin early next week .
Political observers say broadening the government will ease pressure on Mr. Sharon to call new elections , and bolster his plans to evacuate all 21 Jewish settlements in Gaza and four in the West Bank by next year .
The U.S. military says Iraqi authorities have foiled a suicide chemical bomb attack in the western city of Ramadi .
A statement issued Sunday says Iraqi police detained a suicide bomber Friday , before he could detonate two tons of explosives aboard his truck that was also loaded with nearly 20,000 liters of chlorine .
U.S. officials say the truck was stopped near a police station about 150 meters from a water treatment plant in the predominantly Sunni city .
Insurgents have carried out seven chlorine bomb attacks in Iraq this year .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police said Sunday gunmen attacked a Sunni mosque south of Baghdad .
Officials say at least two people were wounded .
Mosques are frequent targets of attack in Iraq were sectarian violence between Sunni and Shi'ite muslims has become commonplace .
On Saturday , a series of suicide bombings in Iraq killed at least 47 people , many of them Iraqi policemen .
Guinea has had a history of authoritarian rule since gaining its independence from France in 1958 .
Lansana CONTE came to power in 1984 when the military seized the government after the death of the first president , Sekou TOURE .
Guinea did not hold democratic elections until 1993 when Gen. CONTE ( head of the military government ) was elected president of the civilian government .
He was reelected in 1998 and again in 2003 , though all the polls were marred by irregularities .
History repeated itself in December 2008 when following President CONTE 's death , Capt. Moussa Dadis CAMARA led a military coup , seizing power and suspending the constitution .
His unwillingness to yield to domestic and international pressure to step down led to heightened political tensions that culminated in September 2009 when presidential guards opened fire on an opposition rally killing more than 150 people , and in early December 2009 when CAMARA was wounded in an assassination attempt and evacuated to Morocco and subsequently to Burkina Faso .
A transitional government led by General Sekouba KONATE held democratic elections in 2010 and Alpha CONDE was elected president in the country 's first free and fair elections since independence .
Sri Lankan officials say a bomb blast killed six soldiers and wounded several others Saturday in the northern Jaffna peninsula .
The improvised device exploded as soldiers cleaned up the area after a failed attempt by Tamil Tiger rebels to capture the peninsula .
In the capital of Colombo , police say they found a major weapons cache and arrested at least 17 people , including two women .
Authorities say the suspects were planning a major attack .
Police say they seized hand grenades and mines in the raid .
Meanwhile , Tamil Tigers released a policeman Saturday , who had been held for nearly a year after he strayed into rebel territory while pursuing a pedophile .
The release followed a request from Ulf Henricsson , the outgoing head of the team monitoring the 2002 ceasefire between the government and rebels .
Two lawyers are in a bank , when armed robbers suddenly burst in .
While several of the robbers take the money from the tellers , others line the customers , including the lawyers , up against a wall , and proceed to take their wallets , watches , etc .
While this is going on lawyer number one jams something in lawyer number two 's hand .
Without looking down , lawyer number two whispers , " What is this ? "
To which lawyer number one replies , " It 's that $ 50 I owe you . "
Exact details for the lavish opening ceremonies at the Beijing Olympics this August are still secret , but some information on what audiences can expect to see has been released .
Chinese state media reported Wednesday that the ceremony , designed by famous film director Zhang Yimou , will include a huge fireworks display , colorful ethnic dancing , dragons , pandas and a cast of thousands highlighting 5,000 years of Chinese history .
The extravagant three-and-one-half hour opening ceremony will represent China 's culture from ancient to modern times under the theme of " Civilization and Harmony . "
Organizers say the process for lighting the Olympic flame has been set .
But the name of the torchbearer who will light the Olympic cauldron at the end of the ceremony has not yet been announced .
Ten people believed to be North Koreans seeking asylum have entered a South Korean school in China .
South Korean officials say the people entered the school Tuesday in the city of Qingdao , along China 's eastern coast .
Earlier this month , South Korean diplomats took custody of another group of people believed to be North Koreans who entered the same school asking to be sent to South Korea .
No decision on their status has been announced .
Beijing has an agreement with Pyongyang to return asylum seekers , but has allowed many to travel to South Korea through third countries .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into embassies and foreign schools in China in recent years seeking asylum .
Venezuela has placed advertisements in U.S. newspapers highlighting its offer of low-cost fuel to America 's poor .
Full-page ads in the New York Times and the Washington Post say that Venezuela 's state-owned oil company is giving the discounted fuel because the United States always helps others in times of disaster .
Noting the high cost of fuel , Venezuela says it wants to reciprocate with a humanitarian gesture .
The ad copy says the program " is n't about politics . "
The low-cost oil comes as Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is at odds with the White House over Iraq , Cuba and regional trade policies .
The low-cost fuel program , aimed at low-income families , hospitals and schools in Massachusetts , is expected to expand to New York state and other cold-weather areas .
Officials in Taiwan say President Chen Shui-bian is expected to travel to Central America and the Caribbean next week .
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Nicaragua and Guatemala are among the nations on his itinerary .
The Taipei Times Wednesday quotes a government spokesman as saying the trip is aimed at strengthening friendship between Taiwan and its allies .
Taipei 's participation in diplomatic affairs has been a controversial issue since 1949 , when Taiwan and China split at the end of a civil war .
China continues to claim sovereignty over Taiwan .
Only 26 countries , mostly small nations in Africa , Central America and the Caribbean , recognize Taiwan 's government .
The United States recognizes the People 's Republic of China as China 's sole legal government , and acknowledges Beijing 's position that there is but one China and Taiwan is part of it .
European and Asian leaders have pledged to continue working to reduce carbon dioxide emissions , blamed by many scientists for global warming .
Top officials from 38 Asian and European nations concluded their Asia-Europe Meeting in Helsinki Monday .
They released a final statement promising to continue working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after the Kyoto Protocol on climate change expires in 2012 .
But no firm targets were set .
In their final statement , the 38 leaders agreed to share cleaner and climate-friendly technology with developing nations .
Enacted in 2005 , the Kyoto Protocol establishes goals for 35 industrialized nations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by about five percent below 1990 levels by 2012 .
The agreement does not require developing nations like India and China to restrict their emissions .
Citing economic reasons , the United States has not signed the protocol .
Floods in northern Venezuela have killed at least 13 people and forced more than 5,000 to leave their homes .
Heavy rains have caused floods and landslides , forcing authorities to declare a state of emergency in the capital city of Caracas and the country 's northern provinces .
Flooding rivers and landslides have blocked traffic in northern Venezuela 's coastal areas .
Minister of Education Aristolbulo Isturiz announced Wednesday that classes across the country have been canceled to allow flood victims to seek refuge in the schools .
Weather forecasts say more rain is likely to hit northern Venezuela over the next three days .
The U.S. Geological Survey says a strong earthquake has hit eastern Indonesia .
The service said Tuesday the quake had a magnitude of 6.3 and was centered in the Molucca Sea about 135 kilometers northwest of Ternate .
An Indonesian website , vivanews.com , said the quake struck at 9:08 pm local time and there appeared to be little risk of a tsunami .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
An earthquake of that magnitude can cause damage in populated areas within a radius of about 160 kilometers .
Indonesia sits on fault lines that make the region prone to earthquakes .
A tsunami triggered by a massive undersea quake in December 2004 killed nearly 230,000 people , half of them in Indonesia 's Aceh province .
Chinese authorities say 254 people were killed in a massive mudslide that buried a northern Chinese village .
The death toll rose sharply Saturday after the discovery of more than 70 additional bodies in Shanxi province .
The official Xinhua news agency reported a wall of waste and mud from an illegal mine plowed into a village of about 1,000 people on Monday .
The slide buried an outdoor market said to have been packed with people .
Officials stated hundreds could have been killed .
More than 1,000 people are involved in rescue and recovery operations .
Chinese work safety officials blamed the illegal mine for the disaster .
Police have detained 12 people associated with the mine , including its boss .
Officials from the International Security Assistance Force say a NATO soldier was killed Saturday during fighting in southern Afghanistan .
NATO officials say four others were wounded in the clash .
Earlier today , the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan said several al-Qaida and Taleban fighters were killed in a gunbattle also in the country 's south .
Officials say coalition and Afghan troops came under attack as they approached two compounds in Zabul province where militants were thought to live .
The military says several militant fighters were killed and five were detained in the battle .
Officials said a cache of weapons was discovered and destroyed .
Elsewhere , a local official in Laghman province said a roadside bomb killed a policeman and wounded three others Friday evening .
Violence has increased in recent weeks in southern and eastern Afghanistan , where Taleban insurgents are particularly active .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says his government will only support proposals on the future of Serbia 's Kosovo province if they are acceptable to both Serbia and ethnic Albanians living in the province .
Mr. Putin spoke Sunday , in the Black Sea resort of Sochi , after talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel .
His comments came as U.N. envoys prepare to give the U.N. Security Council recommendations on the future of the province .
Ethnic Albanians , who comprise 90 percent of Kosovo 's population , are seeking independence - a push strongly opposed by Belgrade .
Negotiators are expected to present a compromise offering some form of provincial autonomy .
As a member of the Security Council , Russia - a historically close ally of Serbia - is likely to play a key role in Kosovo 's future , because it can use its Council veto to block any deal that does not satisfy Belgrade .
THE MONKEY , it is said , has two young ones at each birth .
The Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection and care , but hates and neglects the other .
It happened once that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by the too great affection of the Mother , while the despised one was nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was exposed .
The best intentions will not always ensure success .
The annual Smithsonian Kite Festival celebrated the art and history of Chinese kites at this year 's event .
Kites large and small ; kite fliers professional and amateur ; Washingtonians as well as visitors from around the world gathered around the Washington Monument to welcome the colorful designs .
For producer Joseph Mok , Elaine Lu has more .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he is optimistic a deal with Iran on its controversial nuclear program can be reached .
During a visit to Hungary Tuesday , Mr. Putin said it is quite possible to reach agreement on Moscow 's proposal to enrich uranium on Russian soil for Iran 's nuclear energy needs .
Iran has said it agrees in principle to the deal .
But it is unclear if it would also agree to stop domestic uranium enrichment - a demand of Russia and the West .
A Japanese official Tuesday quoted Iran 's visiting Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying that the Russian plan would be a bridge between Iran 's right to peaceful nuclear energy and global trust in Tehran .
The United States and European Union say Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons - a charge it denies .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has produced a gas needed for uranium enrichment .
A former U.N. weapons inspector says Iran has produced enough of this nuclear material to fuel an atomic weapon .
The agency 's findings are part of a confidential report obtained by news agencies Friday .
The U.N. nuclear watchdog said Iran 's nuclear plant in Isfahan has processed about seven tons of uranium hexaflouride gas since resuming work in early August .
That gas can be turned into the key ingredient for a nuclear bomb .
The report said even after two years of U.N. investigation , Iran failed to answer important questions about its secret nuclear activity .
Iran says its nuclear program is a peaceful effort to generate electricity , but critics fear Tehran is secretly working on nuclear weapons .
Delegates from many of south Asian nations affected by December 's deadly tsunami are in Tokyo to study Japan 's advanced tsunami warning system .
A three-day conference sponsored by the United Nations opened Tuesday as part of an effort to establish an early tsunami warning system for the Indian Ocean by mid-2006 .
The representatives from Indonesia , Sri Lanka , Thailand and other nations in the region also will visit Japanese coastal communities to see how they respond to earthquake and tsunami warnings .
Japan , which is prone to earthquakes and tsunamis , has offered to share its tsunami-warning technology to build the new Indian Ocean system .
The Sudanese government and the main southern rebel group say they are continuing peace talks through Christmas to try to fulfill a promise to reach a final deal before the end of the year .
The two sides have promised the United Nations Security Council they will sign an agreement by December 31st to formally end 21 years of civil war .
However , a Sudanese presidential political adviser Qutbi al-Mahdi is quoted by the official Sudan Media Center Saturday as saying a final deal will not be signed until January 10 .
The Sudanese government and the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Army have already signed several key accords at peace talks in Kenya , including power-sharing and security deals .
The southern conflict is separate from the one in Sudan 's western Darfur region , where rebels took up arms last year .
Courtney Love plans to sell most of the items which once belonged to her husband , former Nirvana leader Kurt Cobain .
Comparing her house to a " mausoleum , " the 42-year-old rock singer says she plans to hold a charity auction .
Love and Cobain wed in 1992 and later that year had a daughter , Frances Bean .
Kurt Cobain committed suicide in 1994 .
Speaking to AOL Music , Love says " My daughter does n't need to inherit a giant ... bag full of flannel ... shirts . "
She says Frances will get one of Cobain 's sweaters , a guitar , and the lyrics to Nirvana 's biggest hit , " Smells Like Teen Spirit . "
AOL publicist Kurt Patat gave no date for the auction .
Vietnamese officials say floods have killed at least 77 people in central Vietnam since late last month , and now a new typhoon is approaching .
Typhoon Peipah is working its way across the South China Sea and is expected to dump heavy rains on Vietnam 's central provinces as early as Friday .
Since late October , heavy rains have ravaged parts of central Vietnam , damaging rice crops and forcing schools to close .
State media say at least one million people in the region are facing shortages of clean water and food .
In early October , Typhoon Lekima killed nearly 100 people in the same region .
Peipah passed over the northern tip of the Philippines on Monday , flooding towns and killing at least five people .
Floods and storms kill hundreds of people each year in Vietnam .
Iran says the only solution to its nuclear dispute with the West is negotiations , and not referral of its atomic energy program to the U.N. Security Council .
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi made that assertion Sunday at his weekly news conference in Tehran .
Asefi cautioned the West against acting in haste against Iran , saying a referral to the Security Council would solve nothing .
The Iranian spokesman 's comments came as representatives of Britain , Germany , France , the United States and the European Union prepared for a meeting Monday in London to discuss whether to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The Europeans say the impasse should be resolved through diplomacy , but Washington says a military option should be retained as a last resort .
The leader of Hezbollah in Lebanon has rejected President Bush 's call for the militant group to disarm .
Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah says his organization needs to be armed to protect Lebanon and deter Israeli aggression .
He spoke Wednesday in response to Mr. Bush , who said Hezbollah could play a political role in Lebanon if it disarmed and supported the Israeli-Palestinian peace process .
Mr. Bush says Hezbollah will remain designated a terrorist organization .
Mr. Bush met Wednesday at the White House with the Lebanese Patriarch of the Maronite Church , Nasrallah Sfeir .
The patriarch says he looks forward to an end to the " suffocating political conditions " in Syrian-dominated Lebanon .
Meanwhile , witnesses say Syrian intelligence agents left Beirut following U.S. , European and Lebanese opposition calls to do so .
The European Union has welcomed the election of Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat as the new leader of the Turkish community on Cyprus .
A European Commission statement expressed hope the results will create favorable conditions for resumption of United Nations-sponsored talks on reuniting Cyprus .
Earlier , Mr. Talat called for renewed talks with the island 's Greek Community on Cyprus .
His comments followed his victory in Sunday 's presidential elections in Cyprus 's Turkish northern enclave .
The Mediterranean Island has been divided into two communities since 1974 .
Turkish Cypriots voted last year in favor of a United Nations reunification plan , but Greek Cypriots rejected it .
Mr. Talat will replace Rauf Denktash , who has led the Turkish Cypriot community for decades , but did not seek another term .
Russia has extradited a Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect who was hiding in Siberia until authorities detained him last year .
The Bosnian State Court said Dragan Zelenovic was handed over late Thursday .
He is expected to appear before a judge later Friday .
The former policeman is wanted by the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague for atrocities committed against Bosnian Muslims in the eastern Foca region during Bosnia-Herzegovina 's 1992 - 95 war .
Zelenovic had lived in Khanty-Mansiisk , some 2,000 kilometers east of Moscow , for several years under an assumed name and had worked in the construction industry .
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko says she will not seek a coalition with the pro-Russian Party of Regions after Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Tymoshenko Tuesday ruled out any partnership with the party led by former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
Opinion polls show the Regions Party is favored to win the largest number of seats in the vote .
But no single party is expected to have enough seats to form a government .
A top official for President Viktor Yushchenko 's Our Ukraine party also rejected forming a coalition with the Party of Regions .
Mr. Yushchenko 's campaign manager , Roman Bezsmertniy , says the party hopes to form a coalition with the bloc led by Tymoshenko .
The two groups were the key forces behind the so-called " Orange Revolution " that helped bring Mr. Yushchenko to power last year .
Chinese worker sews clothing at a garment factory in Beijing China is criticizing the European Union 's decision to investigate surging imports of Chinese textile products .
In a statement on its web site , the Chinese Commerce Ministry says the EU move runs counter to the spirit of free trade , and could have a negative impact on bilateral relations .
The EU is looking at Chinese textiles flooding into European markets since a worldwide quota system expired January 1 .
The EU says imports of some Chinese textile have risen as much as 500 percent since then .
The probe could lead the EU to impose limits those products .
The United States is also looking into the impact that increased Chinese textile imports is having on its textile producers .
Security in Nepal 's capital remained tight Sunday , as police searched an area south of Kathmandu for rebels who launched a deadly pre-dawn attack on government troops .
The military says 17 rebels and at least six security personnel were killed in the fighting , which came as opponents of King Gyanendra 's direct rule continued to defy a government crackdown .
Elsewhere , authorities say suspected rebels shot dead a candidate for local office in the southern town of Janakpur .
The victim was identified as the local leader of a party that supports King Gyanendra .
Authorities say at least 30 protesters were arrested in the capital Sunday .
However , the royal government released former Prime Minister Gijira Prasad Koirala and several other leaders placed under house arrest last week .
Nepal 's main political parties vowed to continue the protests and called for a nationwide strike on Thursday .
President Bush says federal officials have " deep concern " about Tropical Storm Rita causing more flooding in New Orleans .
In remarks at the White House Monday , Mr. Bush said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers fears that heavy rain could cause the city 's recently-repaired levees to break again .
Much of New Orleans sits below sea level , and the levees ' failure during Hurricane Katrina put 80 percent of the city underwater .
Weather forecasters say Tropical Storm Rita could become a hurricane and move into the Gulf of Mexico south of New Orleans later this week .
The president said New Orleans officials must be " realistic " about bringing people back to the city before it is safe .
Ukrainian opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko says the United States understands the problems Ukraine faces in its democratic development , and its need for energy security .
Tymoshenko met in Washington Thursday with Vice President Dick Cheney and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley .
The former Ukrainian prime minister is scheduled to meet with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice Friday .
After her meetings Thursday , Tymoshenko said Ukraine faces a real threat of losing its political sovereignty , independence and integration with the European community for the first time in 15 years .
Ukraine is struggling with a political stalemate between supporters of West-leaning reformer President Viktor Yushchenko , and those of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who wants stronger ties with Russia .
President Yushchenko and Tymoshenko were once allies , but their relationship deteriorated because of bitter political infighting a year after the 2004 Orange Revolution that swept Mr. Yushchenko to power .
Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko says his nation is obliged to prevent crimes against humanity .
President Yushchenko told the United Nations General Assembly Thursday that Ukraine lost 10 million lives during the era of Soviet dictator Josef Stalin .
He said he wanted the world to be aware of such brutality .
Mr. Yushchenko said Ukraine is an active member in the fight against terrorism and is committed to controlling nuclear proliferation .
He said the country has developed what he called a road map to bring Ukraine closer to a united Europe and integration into the international economy .
The Israeli military says Israeli and Palestinian officials have agreed to meet for a second time Wednesday to resolve a standoff on handing over security of the West Bank town of Jericho .
Talks earlier Wednesday on transferring control of the towns of Jericho and Tulkarem broke down without an agreement .
Palestinian officials said the biggest obstacle is whether Israel will agree to remove the main checkpoint at the entrance of Jericho .
The Israeli pullback was agreed to at a Palestinian-Israeli summit last month in Egypt , but has been delayed because of a Palestinian suicide bombing 12 days ago in Tel Aviv that killed four people .
The transfer would be the first of several planned Israeli pullouts from five towns in the West Bank , including Qalqilya , Bethlehem and Ramallah .
Suspected U.S. drones fired missiles at several suspected militant hideouts in Pakistan 's North Waziristan tribal region Tuesday , killing at least 16 people .
North Waziristan is known as a base for the Taliban-allied Haqqani group , which is blamed for cross-border attacks against U.S. , NATO and Afghan troops in Afghanistan .
U.S. officials do not publicly comment on the drone strikes , which have raised tensions between Pakistan and the United States in the past .
Meanwhile , the death toll from four days of violence in Pakistan 's southern port city of Karachi has reached at least 26 , after at least six more people were killed Tuesday .
The clashes appeared to be between activists from rival political parties - the Muttahida Qaumi Movement and the Awami National Party - which traditionally gather support from different ethnic groups .
Pakistan says it would welcome India 's participation in a proposed gas pipeline with Iran worth $ 4 billion dollars , but says that the project will go ahead even if New Delhi does not join it .
Pakistani Foreign Minister Khurshid Kasuri made the comment after Tuesday 's meeting with his Iranian counterpart , Kamal Kharrazi , in Islamabad .
Iran proposed the pipeline in 1996 .
But New Delhi 's response has been lukewarm given its troubled relations with Islamabad and concerns about the safety of the pipeline carrying its energy supplies through Pakistani territory .
Mr. Kharrazi 's visit came as India and Pakistan concluded another round of slow-moving peace talks .
The Iranian foreign minister met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf late Monday .
Before leaving Pakistan , Mr. Kharrazi held talks with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz .
Iraqi officials say Jan. 30 has been set as the new date for the war-torn country 's first national elections since a U.S.-led military coalition toppled Saddam Hussein 's regime .
An Iraqi election commission spokesman , Farid Ayar , who spoke to reporters Sunday did not give a reason for the election date change , which postpones by three days an earlier voting plan drawn up by the interim government in Baghdad .
Iraqis will choose a new national assembly , provincial councils across the country and a Kurdish regional parliament .
Continuing attacks on coalition forces by Iraqi insurgents have been a growing source of concern for Iraqi and U.S. officials as election day approaches .
U.S. military officials said today that nine men found dead Saturday in the northern city of Mosul were all Iraqi soldiers who had been shot in the back of the head .
Spain is holding a national day of mourning and commemoration Friday , to mark the one year anniversary of the Madrid train bombings which killed 191 people .
Church bells rang out at 7:37 a.m. local time ( 0637 UTC ) to mark the first of 10 explosions that occurred aboard four commuter trains one year ago .
The coordinated attacks produced the worst death toll ever from terrorism in Spain .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Morocco 's King Mohamed , will join Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero - and the entire Spanish nation - for five minutes of silence at midday .
Islamic militants , predominantly from Morocco and sympathetic to al-Qaeda , claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Authorities in Haiti say gunmen shot and killed two police officers and a civilian Monday in an apparent ambush in Port-au-Prince .
Police say gunman attacked the car the officers and civilian were driving in .
The shooting follows several weeks of attacks that officials say are aimed at destabilizing the country ahead of elections scheduled for later this year .
The United Nations mission and Haitian police have struggled to restore order to Haiti for more than a year , after an armed uprising ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
The U.S. government says BP has agreed to pay a record fine of more than $ 50 million for failing to correct problems at a Texas oil refinery that exploded and killed 15 workers in 2005 .
The company is still contesting about $ 30 million in other fines in connection with the fiery blast that injured 170 people .
U.S. regulators say they found hundreds of safety violations at the BP refinery when they inspected it in 2009 .
They also say the company failed to make promised changes and repairs at the refinery near Houston , Texas .
The 2005 refinery explosion is separate from this year 's environmental disaster that grew out of an explosion and fire on a BP oil drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico .
Bangladesh 's government is again deploying troops to stop fighting between ethnic groups in the Chittagong Hill Tracts .
Bangladeshi troops were sent to the town of Khagrachhari after 30 people were injured in Tuesday 's clashes involving Bengali Muslim settlers and Buddhist tribespeople .
Officials say about 100 houses were set ablaze in the fighting .
Bangladeshi authorities have imposed a ban on public gatherings in Khagrachhari to restore order .
The violence erupted after tribal activists from the United People 's Democratic Front blocked roads to protest the killing of two tribal people in clashes with Bengali settlers on Saturday .
Earlier clashes in the neighboring town of Baghaichhari also resulted in around 100 homes being torched and prompted the government to deploy troops .
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been overturned in a housekeeper 's room , and placing their feet in it , ate greedily .
Their feet , however , became so smeared with the honey that they could not use their wings , nor release themselves , and were suffocated .
Just as they were expiring , they exclaimed , " O foolish creatures that we are , for the sake of a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves . "
Pleasure bought with pains , hurts .
The White House has yet to comment on a published report that the National Security Agency conducted broader surveillance of e-mails and telephone conversations without court orders than the administration has acknowledged .
Current and former government officials told The New York Times the NSA accessed domestic and international communications with help from telecommunication companies .
The newspaper says the companies have been storing information on calling patterns since the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States .
NSA officials were reported to have been studying the information in hope of finding terrorists .
The Bush administration has been under increased scrutiny from the public and many lawmakers for authorizing without court orders the surveillance of what the government says are only international calls and e-mails to and from the United States .
The Lower House of Russia 's Parliament ( the State Duma ) has voted to give President Vladimir Putin the right to use a special armed forces unit in fighting terrorism abroad .
Tuesday , Mr. Putin sought authorization from the upper house ( the Federation Council ) for similar powers .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency quotes the State Duma Security Committee as saying Mr. Putin will have to notify the Federation Council in order to use the special forces unit .
According to the bill , the special forces unit would be required to defend the human rights of Russian citizens .
The bill also authorizes the confiscation of funds , valuables and other property accumulated through terrorism .
Last week , Mr. Putin ordered the special forces to hunt down and destroy those responsible for killing four employees of Russia 's embassy in Baghdad .
They were killed several days after insurgents took them hostage .
The United Nations says 2007 was one of the deadliest years on record for U.N. staffers .
The United Nations said Wednesday that 42 civilian staffers and peacekeepers were killed in acts of violence worldwide last year , compared to 32 in 2006 and about half that in 2005 .
The U.N. said the worst incident this year was in a bombing in Algiers on December 11 , when 17 U.N. staff members were among dozens who died in two car bomb attacks , an incident Secretary Ban Ki-Moon called " despicable . "
Six staffers lost their lives in a bomb attack in Lebanon June 24 , and another died the following month .
Six other U.N. workers died in Sudanese violence in several different incidents .
Afghanistan was also the scene of six U.N. deaths over the course of the year .
Other U.N. staffers were detained in Darfur , Somalia , and Burma .
French authorities are holding five men on suspicion of links to the al-Qaida affiliated terrorist group behind the deadly bombings in Algeria last week .
Officials say the five are part of a group of eight detained in Paris and the northwestern region of Rouen Tuesday .
Three of the group were released after questioning .
Authorities say the five are suspected of providing computers and telecommunications help to al-Qaida 's North African wing , which claimed responsibility for the car bomb attacks .
The officials said there was no indication of any direct links between those detained and the attacks and no sign that the five were planning any attacks in France .
The bombings outside United Nations offices and a government building in Algiers killed at least 37 people , including 17 U.N. employees .
Former Haitian president Rene Preval has been declared the winner of the Caribbean nation 's presidential election .
Haiti 's Provisional Electoral Council said Thursday , Mr. Preval received 51 percent of the votes cast last week .
His total was raised after a last minute decision to discount 85,000 blank ballots .
Haitian Prime Minister Gerard Latortue told the Associated Press the government acknowledged the final decision of the electoral council and saluted Mr. Preval 's election .
The announcement follows five days of protests by Preval supporters who alleged massive voter fraud .
Mr. Preval urged his supporters to demonstrate peacefully .
Haitian officials stopped the vote count Wednesday after thousands of ballots were found burning in a trash heap outside the capital , Port-au-Prince .
England 's Alistair Cook has hit a century in his test debut while Kevin Pietersen added another 87 runs to lift their team on the fourth day of its opening test match against India in Nagpur .
Cook , a 21-year-old left-handed opener , scored 104 not out , while Pietersen was more aggressive at the crease and reached 87 before being dismissed by Rahul Dravid .
The English reached 297-for three at stumps for an overall lead of 367 runs .
India was all out for 323 in its first innings .
English bowler Matthew Hoggard took six wickets while allowing 57 runs in 30.5 overs .
England 's India tour includes three tests and seven one-day international matches , through mid-April .
There 's nothing I like better than the sound of a banjo , unless of course it 's the sound of a chicken caught in a vacuum cleaner .
U.S. consumer prices posted their sharpest drop in half a century in November .
Thursday 's report from the Labor Department says falling energy costs brought prices down a steep six-tenths of a percent for the month .
Economists say energy and food costs can swing widely from month to month , so setting aside those volatile prices may give a clearer picture of inflation in the overall economy .
By that measure , prices rose a modest two-tenths of a percent .
Energy prices soared earlier this year because of hurricane damage .
A separate report says the number of people who lost jobs because of Hurricanes Katrina , Rita , and Wilma now exceeds $ 600,000 .
The report also shows the number of people applying for unemployment insurance rose slightly last week .
A pro-Kurdish news agency says Kurdish rebels have extended their unilateral ceasefire with Turkey for two more weeks .
Their original 30-day truce expired on Tuesday .
The notice was published Wednesday by the Mesopotamia news agency , which frequently carries rebel statements .
This ceasefire extension by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , known as the PKK , appears timed to coincide with the October 3 start of Turkey 's membership talks with the European Union .
The Associated Press quotes rebels who urged the Turkish government to correctly assess the historic opportunity for peace .
Turkey has repeatedly said it will not enter into direct talks with the PKK .
In announcing the ceasefire last month , the PKK said it would not conduct any operations beyond self-defense .
But Western news reports say rebels clashed twice last week with Turkish soldiers in southeastern Turkey .
Five soldiers were reported killed in the fighting .
Chinese health officials have confirmed a new case of bird flu in a man hospitalized in critical condition in Guangdong province , near Hong Kong .
The case has caused Hong Kong to declare a three-week ban on live poultry from the mainland .
Chinese state media say the infection brings the country 's total of human cases of bird flu to 19 .
Reports say the 31-year-old patient in the town of Shenzhen developed fever and pneumonia-like symptoms June 3 .
Earlier Thursday , the World Health Organization confirmed that a seven-year-old Indonesian girl who died last month was infected with bird flu .
That means 38 people in Indonesia have now died of bird flu .
Avian flu has killed more than 125 people around the world since late 2003 .
Most of the victims have been in Asia .
The U.S. government has proposed a new , high-tech passport card for Americans who travel internationally within the Western Hemisphere .
The State Department and the Department of Homeland Security have submitted Tuesday a proposal for public comment .
The plan calls for a card that is small enough to fit into a person 's wallet .
It would meet the same standards as a traditional passport book , but would only be used by U.S. citizens traveling from the U.S. to Canada , Mexico , the Caribbean and Bermuda .
The proposed card would use radio frequency identification ( RFID ) that links the card to a government database that contains biographical information and a photograph .
The State Department says the passport card could make frequent travel easier for people who live in border communities .
Iran 's intelligence minister says two Americans who were detained for illegally crossing the country 's border should be tried on charges of spying .
Iranian state-run media quotes Heidar Moslehi as saying " documents and evidence " about Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal have been handed over to Iran 's judicial system for a decision .
He also said Friday that a third American who was freed should " return to Iran if necessary . "
Iranian authorities arrested Bauer , Fattal and Sarah Shourd last year on charges of unlawfully crossing into Iranian territory from Iraq .
Iran freed Shourd on $ 500,000 bail last month .
Mosleshi says she was freed " temporarily " and should " return to Iran if necessary . "
The hikers and their family members have said if the trio crossed the border , it was by accident .
Shourd says there were no signs , fences or other indications of a border .
Keith Richards says he once snorted his father 's ashes mixed with cocaine .
Speaking to the British music magazine " NME , " the 63-year-old Rolling Stones guitarist acknowledges ingesting his father 's cremated remains .
" My dad would n't have cared , " he said , " it went down pretty well , and I 'm still alive . "
Richards ' father , Bert , died at age 84 in 2002 .
The famously hard-living Richards told NME that his survival was the result of luck , and he cautioned young musicians not to emulate him .
" I was number one on the ' who 's likely to die ' list for 10 years , " he said .
" I mean , I was really disappointed when I fell off the list . "
Top Israeli and Palestinian security officials are meeting to work out a deal for Israel to hand over security control of several West Bank towns to the Palestinian Authority .
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz and Palestinian Mohammed Dahlan began their talks hours after Palestinians say Israeli military gunfire killed a schoolgirl in the Gaza Strip .
Israel is probing the Monday incident , which triggered Palestinian mortar fire into an Israeli settlement near the school where the girl died .
No Israeli casualties were reported .
A short time later , Hamas and other militant groups said they would stick to their pledge to stop attacks on Israelis if the Israeli army does not launch offensive operations .
Meanwhile , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with Israeli diplomats in Washington Monday ahead of her trip to the Middle East later this week .
Japanese officials say the deaths of hundreds of chickens in eastern Japan earlier this year may have been caused by a fresh outbreak of bird flu .
About 430 chickens died between March and May at a poultry farm in Ibaraki prefecture , north of Tokyo .
The farm keeps 25,000 chickens .
A government laboratory is conducting tests to confirm whether the deaths were caused by the virus .
Officials inspected the farm on Saturday , but found no abnormalities .
Japan suffered several outbreaks of bird flu last year .
No one in Japan has yet been infected by the H5N1 avian flu virus that has killed 38 Vietnamese , 12 Thais and four Cambodians since the latest epidemic began in 2003 .
Wimbledon runner-up Lindsay Davenport has withdrawn from the U.S. Fed Cup tennis team for its semifinal against Russia because of a back injury .
Jill Craybas , who beat Serena Williams at the All England Club last month , has replaced Davenport .
Craybas lost to Venus Williams , who is the Fed Cup team 's top singles player .
The 32-year-old Craybas will play doubles with Corina Morariu , shifting Mashona Washington to the number-two singles slot .
It will be Craybas ' second appearance in the Fed Cup .
The U.S.-Russia match will take place this Saturday and Sunday on an indoor clay court at the Olympic Stadium in Moscow .
The winner faces the winner of this weekend 's other Fed Cup semifinal between France and Spain .
The championship is set for mid-September .
The Islamic militant group Hamas says it has formed its cabinet and will present the choices to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Sunday .
Hamas , which won parliamentary elections in January , failed to get any other Palestinian faction to join the new government .
Hamas had planned to meet with Mr. Abbas Saturday .
There is no word on why the plans were changed .
Mr. Abbas 's Fatah Party has refused to join a Hamas-led government , saying the militant group must first renounce violence and accept past peace accords with Israel .
Mr. Abbas has to approve the cabinet , and his aides say he would accept the choices .
Hamas has claimed dozens of suicide attacks against Israeli targets in recent years .
The United States , Israel and Europe classify the group as a terrorist organization .
Cuban and Chinese military leaders have met in Havana to reaffirm ties between the two communist countries .
In a meeting Saturday at Cuba 's Armed Forces Ministry , the country 's military chief , Raul Castro , stressed the long-standing friendship between the two nations .
He said China 's presence on the island will help strengthen relations between Beijing and Havana .
His Chinese counterpart , General Liang Guanglie , said his visit will help strengthen what he called the " historic " ties between the government , armed forces and people of both countries .
Following the meeting , the high-level Chinese delegation toured a tank base on the outskirts of Havana , where members were given details on the structure , mission and history of the military facility .
The delegation leaves Cuba Sunday .
Pakistan police say a roadside bomb attack on a prison van has wounded at least 10 policemen in the restive northwest .
Officials say Saturday 's explosion was near a jail in the town of Timergarah in Lower Dir district .
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Elsewhere in Pakistan , at least six people have been wounded by an explosion in southwestern Pakistan .
Police say the blast went off in a bakery Saturday in Sibbi in the province of Baluchistan .
Al-Qaida has claimed responsibility for the July 7 London subway and bus bombings that killed 52 people .
The Arabic language television network al-Jazeera Thursday broadcast what it said is a videotape of one of the bombers , Mohammad Sidique Khan , made just before the attack .
On the video , he blames the bombings on British support for the war in Iraq and what he calls atrocities against Muslims .
British officials say four suicide bombers were killed in the July 7 attacks .
An attempted bombing two weeks later failed .
It is still not clear if there is a direct tie between the two attacks .
The videotape also included comments from al-Qaida 's second-in-command , Ayman al-Zawahiri .
He warned that British Prime Minster Tony Blair 's policies would bring more destruction to the British people .
The British Foreign Office said it will not comment on any aspects of the tape .
The U.S. special envoy to Sudan , Andrew Natsios , has warned of what he calls a " poisonous " political atmosphere between Sudan 's government in the north and rebels in the south .
Natsios Saturday said the U.S. is deeply concerned about the health of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed in 2005 .
He made the comments as he wrapped up a 10-day visit to Sudan .
That agreement ended the two decade-long civil war between the government in Khartoum and southern rebels .
Both sides have been critical of each other over missed deadlines for implementing key parts of the accord .
The agreement makes both sides partners in resolving the conflict in Darfur .
But Natsios said implementation has been made difficult , in part , because both parties are facing one another in elections slated for 2009 .
A Nigerian police spokesman says 164 people have been arrested for alleged involvement in violence near the town of Jos earlier this month that killed more than 200 people .
The spokesman said Sunday that 41 of those arrested will be charged with terrorism , which could result in life in prison .
The others , he said , will be charged with illegal possession of firearms , rioting and other offenses .
Witnesses to the March 7 violence said that ethnic Fulani herdsmen , who are mostly Muslim , attacked mainly Christian villages south of Jos , setting homes on fire and slashing people with knives and machetes .
The U.N. special investigator on freedom of religion has said the massacre could have been prevented had authorities addressed deep-seated tensions between Muslims and Christians .
Jos has a history of sectarian violence .
The city sits on the dividing line between Nigeria 's mainly Muslim north and predominantly Christian south .
Iraqi authorities say at least 17 people were killed and dozens wounded Monday in a string of car bombings in Baghdad .
Officials said three parked cars exploded within minutes of each other in the predominantly Shi'ite neighborhood of Karradah .
At least three policemen were killed .
A fourth bomb exploded later in central Baghdad .
The bombings came as Iraqi officials prepare to host a meeting Tuesday between U.S. and Iranian officials to discuss the security situation in Iraq .
Washington has accused Iran of stirring up violence in Iraq by supplying weapons to Shi'ite militias - a charge Iran denies .
The U.S. embassy in Baghdad said Ambassador Ryan Crocker will take part in the talks with his Iranian counterpart .
The United States and Iran held their first high-level talks in nearly 30 years in May .
The U.S. State Department said last week it is ready for more talks .
Russia and Ukraine say they have reached a final agreement on natural gas deliveries for the rest of the year .
Russia 's state-run gas monopoly Gazprom says the deal , announced Thursday , also specifies prices for gas delivered in the first two months of this year .
Additionally , the new agreement streamlines gas trade by eliminating intermediary companies that Ukraine said were complicating gas payment procedures .
Gazprom cut gas deliveries to Ukraine by more than 50 percent earlier this month , because , it said , no payment provisions were in place for gas delivered to Ukraine in January and February .
The Russian company had demanded $ 600 million in back payments , as well as for a payment plan for the rest of the year .
Ukraine threatened to siphon gas meant for Europe from pipelines that cross Ukraine .
A report by the European Union says Muslims across Europe are confronting a rise in discrimination and so-called " Islamophobia " .
The study , released by the European Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia Monday , says manifestations of Islamophobia range from verbal threats to physical attacks on people and property .
The report finds that European Muslims are disproportionally represented in areas with poor housing conditions .
It says their education levels are below average and their unemployment rates are higher than average .
Muslims are also found to be overrepresented in low-paying jobs and those that require few qualifications .
The study says the extent of discrimination and Islamophobic incidents against European Muslims remains underdocumented and underreported .
Muslims constitute about 3.5 percent of the population of the 25-nation bloc .
A U.S. Congressional investigation into Hurricane Katrina blames failures at all levels of government for the suffering and loss of life that resulted from last August 's storm .
U.S. news organizations have published parts of a draft of the final document that is to be presented Wenesday to Congress .
The report says the federal government 's response to Katrina was marked by ineffectiveness and organizational paralysis .
It also faulted local and state officials in Louisiana for delaying mandatory evacuations .
The report notes that problems first noted after the September 11 terrorist attacks - such as the inability of first responders to communicate with each - were again problems during the Katrina response .
Democrats , who wanted an independent probe , boycotted the investigation carried out by Republican members of the House of Representatives .
Nepal 's government says it will push ahead with planned parliamentary elections even if Maoist rebels do not come the negotiating table by January 13 .
Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba told journalists in Kathmandu Thursday it is their last chance to present their demands for ending their decades-long violent campaign .
He said he is determined to set the process for holding parliamentary elections in motion with or without the rebels ' participation .
There was no immediate comment from the guerrillas , who have demanded United Nations or an international human rights group mediate the talks with Kathmandu .
Violence has surged since peace talks failed last year after the Maoists demanded election of a special assembly to decide the future of the monarchy .
The rebels want to replace the constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
Iran is reviewing proposals offered by the European Union aimed at ending a long-running standoff over its nuclear program .
The proposals were delivered Friday by the ambassadors of Britain , France and Germany .
An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said his country would study the proposals for one or two days and issue a response " soon . "
The European plan calls on Iran to end uranium conversion and enrichment , which are suspected to be part of a nuclear weapons program .
In exchange , the EU pledges Iran fuel , trade and investment as well as political and technological cooperation .
Iran insists its nuclear program is used for the peaceful purpose of energy generation and has said it will soon resume uranium processing .
French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Friday he hopes Iran will hear the voice of reason and not resume nuclear activities .
The International Atomic Energy Agency will meet Tuesday to discuss Iran .
NATO allies have raised concerns about a recent deal in Afghanistan to free five Taleban prisoners in exchange for a kidnapped Italian reporter .
U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters in Brussels Tuesday that a majority of member states oppose the exchange of hostages for terrorists .
Members Tuesday discussed adopting a common NATO policy to deal with similar hostage situations .
Early last week , the Afghan government released five Taleban militants in exchange for kidnapped journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo , who had been held for two weeks .
Britain and the United States raised objections to the deal , saying it increases the risk of similar kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops .
Mastrogiacomo was abducted in southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province in early March .
Kidnappers beheaded his Afghan driver .
China has imposed a massive news blackout on the deadly police suppression of a village protest in Dongzhou earlier this month .
China 's state controlled media have been nearly silent about the December 6 incident in which activists say some 20 people were shot dead by police while protesting against a local power plant .
The only official news coverage has alleged that three civilians were killed and several injured after protesters attacked police , forcing officers to respond .
The news blackout extends to the Internet , where reporters say sophisticated filtering has blocked foreign news stories and prevented search engines , such as Google , from looking for keywords associated with the shootings .
But media rights group Reporters without Borders says some Internet users have successfully published messages about the incident in chat rooms by alluding to the shootings without mentioning specifics .
The U.S. banking industry lost more than $ 26 billion in the last three months of 2008 , the first quarterly loss in 18 years .
The number of banks that regulators classify as " troubled " rose nearly 50 percent during the same quarter .
Banks lost money as the recession made it harder for borrowers to repay loans .
Banks were also hurt by losses on their investments in stocks and other areas .
The U.S. government 's Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation says the number of banks that actually fail is growing , with 25 going under last year .
Although the weak economy has resulted in increased losses for banks , the American Bankers Association said Thursday 97 percent of all the country 's banks are still rated " well capitalized " - meaning they have a significant financial buffer against losses .
There are more than 8,000 banks in the United States insured by the FDIC .
Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos has called on the United Nations to move from rhetoric to action when helping developing nations .
Mr. Papadopoulos told the U.N. General Assembly Thursday that the gap between what he calls the haves and the have-nots is widening dramatically .
He said the world body must honor past commitments and work to achieve goals for debt relief , improving access to world markets , and fighting AIDS and other diseases .
Mr. Papadopoulos said detecting the seeds of conflict early and preventing them from blowing up into war should be the cornerstone of U.N. collective security efforts .
Deposed Honduran President Manuel Zelaya says talks on ending the stand-off stemming from his ouster have broken down .
Speaking from the Brazilian Embassy in the capital , Tegucigalpa , where he has taken refuge , Mr. Zelaya told reporters the talks are suspended until the other side presents what he called a " reasonable " stance .
A member of Mr. Zelaya 's negotiating team , Victor Meza , said the proposal offered by interim President Roberto Micheletti is " completely unacceptable . "
That proposal calls for the Honduran Supreme Court to decide whether Mr. Zelaya should be allowed to return to power .
Despite Mr. Zelaya 's statements , envoys from the two sides say negotiations will continue .
Mr. Micheletti has been under intense international pressure to restore Mr. Zelaya .
The deposed president 's opponents say he was ousted because he was trying to illegally change the constitution to extend his term in office .
Several people believed to be North Korean asylum seekers have entered a South Korean school in Dalian in northeast China .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency says the group of nine includes three children .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into diplomatic embassies and foreign schools in China in recent years seeking asylum .
Human rights groups say the defectors are seeking refuge from the hunger and repression in their homeland .
China has an agreement with Pyongyang to send asylum seekers back home , but it has allowed many to travel to South Korea via a third country .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator is in India for talks with senior government officials .
Ali Larijani 's trip comes as the United States , European Union countries and the U.N. nuclear agency are pressing Iran to stop work on nuclear fuel that could also be used to make weapons .
Iran insists it has the right to enrich uranium .
Asked about the dispute Wednesday , Mr. Larijani said it is important for Iran to continue cooperating with the International Atomic Energy Agency , but he said it is up to Iran to decide on the nuclear fuel question .
Mr. Larijani said the focus of his trip to India was on strategic relations , and energy in particular .
India 's foreign minister will travel to Tehran Friday for talks expected to include a proposed gas pipeline between Iran and India .
Israel 's highest court has upheld the government 's plan to withdraw from all of the Gaza Strip and four small West Bank settlements .
An 11-judge High Court panel ruled Thursday the pullout plan is legal and does not violate the human rights of Jewish settlers who opposed the move .
In a 10-1 vote , the justices rejected 12 petitions challenging the withdrawal planned for August .
The sole dissenting justice , Edmund Levy , said the plan should be canceled .
Hours before the ruling , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz and Palestinian Authority Interior Minister Nasser Youssef agreed to closely coordinate the pullout to prevent militants from taking over vacated areas .
Meanwhile , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is in the Gaza Strip for talks with militants to preserve a four-month Israeli-Palestinian ceasefire threatened by two days of violence that has killed five people .
Half the population still depends on agriculture and livestock for a livelihood , even though many of the nomads and subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s .
Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore , which account for nearly 40 % of total exports .
The nation 's coastal waters are among the richest fishing areas in the world but overexploitation by foreigners threatens this key source of revenue .
The country 's first deepwater port opened near Nouakchott in 1986 .
Before 2000 , drought and economic mismanagement resulted in a buildup of foreign debt .
In February 2000 , Mauritania qualified for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) initiative and nearly all of its foreign debt has since been forgiven .
A new investment code approved in December 2001 improved the opportunities for direct foreign investment .
Mauritania and the IMF agreed to a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility ( PRGF ) arrangement in 2006 .
Mauritania made satisfactory progress , but the IMF , World Bank , and other international actors suspended assistance and investment in Mauritania after the August 2008 coup .
Since the presidential election in July 2009 , donors have resumed assistance .
Oil prospects , while initially promising , have largely failed to materialize , and the government has placed a priority on attracting private investment to spur economic growth .
The Government also emphasizes reduction of poverty , improvement of health and education , and privatization of the economy .
The United States has expressed disappointment that an Egyptian court has rejected the appeal of a blogger , convicted for insulting Islam and the Egyptian president .
State Department spokesman , Sean McCormack said Thursday the court 's decision is a setback for human rights in Egypt .
He said the U.S. is deeply concerned that a blogger was sentenced for expressing his opinions .
He said freedom of expression is critical in a democratic society .
On Monday , an Egyptian appeals court upheld a lower court decision last month to sentence blogger Abdel Karim Suleiman to four years in prison - three for insulting Islam and one for insulting President Hosni Mubarak .
Suleiman plans to bring the latest decision to the country 's highest appeals court .
In his blog published in 2004 , Suleiman called Mr. Mubarak a dictator .
He wrote that Al-Azhar University , the seat of Sunni Muslim learning , trains extremists .
Mexican officials say a small plane has crashed in central Mexico state , killing two people and destroying at least one house .
Officials say the twin-engine Aero Commander aircraft was en route from Cancun to the city of Toluca when it went down late Friday in a residential area a few kilometers from of the runway .
Emergency crews say two people from the plane were killed and a third was injured .
No injuries on the ground have been reported .
Officials have yet to say what may have caused the accident .
Several members of four top Italian football teams have been ordered to stand trial in a sports court on charges stemming from the largest football scandal in the country 's history .
At least 26 people from Juventus , AC Milan , Lazio and Fiorentina will face allegations of match-fixing , illegal betting and manipulation of referee assignments .
The trial begins next week at the Olympic Stadium in Rome .
No players are involved .
Juventus has been investigated for sporting fraud on allegations that it tried to manipulate the Serie A by handpicking referees .
Juventus won the first division title for the last two seasons .
But those titles could be stripped along with possible relegation as far down as the third division .
The other teams face lesser demotions .
Concerns about swine flu have been hurting industries as diverse as airlines and pork production , and boosted demand for the dollar and the yen .
Airlines that were already struggling with a recession that slashed demand must now cope with a sharp fall in travel to Mexico , a popular tourist destination .
Falling demand for jet fuel is putting downward pressure on oil prices .
And pork producers , and the farmers who grow grain to feed pigs , have also seen prices for their commodities drop sharply as some nations banned imports of pork from Mexico and some parts of the United States .
The ban , and the falling prices came even though health experts have said repeatedly that properly cooked pork does not transmit the flu .
Worried traders also sold the Mexican peso and some other currencies , and bought U.S. dollars and Japanese yen for their perceived safety in a crisis .
A top opposition leader in Ivory Coast has returned to the west African nation after three years in exile .
Alassane Ouattara arrived in Abidjan Wednesday , greeted by a small group of supporters and dozens of U.N. peacekeepers who will provide him protection .
He issued a call for unity and said he is returning to his country with " a lot of love . "
Ouattara is a former prime minster and heads the Rally of Republicans party .
He fled Ivory Coast for France three years ago after allies of President Laurent Gbagbo accused him of supporting northern-based rebels in the country 's civil war .
Ouattara has said he will run in presidential elections scheduled for October .
Ivory Coast is divided between rebel-held and government-controlled areas .
A peace deal to reunite the country has repeatedly stalled .
Romania says three Romanian journalists and their Iraqi guide , kidnapped nearly two months in Baghdad , have been freed .
Details were not immediately clear .
But a statement Sunday from the Romanian presidency said the reporters are safe and will soon return home .
The reporters and driver were seized March 28 .
The kidnappers threatened to kill them unless Romania withdrew its small military contingent from Iraq by April 27 .
Romanian President Traian Basescu rejected the demand .
Meanwhile , gunmen today killed the director-general of Iraq 's Trade Ministry , Ali Mousa Salman , as he was driving to work in Baghdad .
His driver also was killed
Iraqi officials say the minister of industry escaped unharmed in a roadside bombing - but the blast killed three of his bodyguards .
The minister 's convoy was hit as it traveled near the town of Balad , north of Baghdad .
Elsewhere , the U.S. military is releasing more than 400 Iraqi detainees including five women prisoners Thursday and Friday .
A military statement says a review of their cases determined there was no reason to keep holding them .
Iraqi and U.S. officials have stressed the move has nothing to do with American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped earlier this month .
Her kidnappers threatened to kill her by last Friday unless all Iraqi women detainees were released .
The deadline passed with no word on her fate .
Lebanese officials say rescuers have recovered two bodies from the waters off Lebanon 's northern coast where a cargo ship carrying 83 crew members and livestock sank late Thursday .
The officials say Lebanese navy boats and United Nations vessels participating in the rescue mission also pulled at least 25 people from the rough Mediterranean waters .
Local authorities say the Panamanian-flagged vessel , carrying livestock from Uruguay to the Syrian port of Tartous , capsized some 17 kilometers off the Lebanese port of Tripoli in a heavy rainstorm .
They say the crew sent a distress call but the vessel sank before the rescue ships could reach the area .
Thursday 's accident came less than a week after a Togolese-flagged cargo ship with 12 crew on board sank off the Lebanese coast .
Six crew members were rescued but the rest remain missing .
Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi says that some top Baath Party officials of Iraq 's deposed regime will go on trial next week .
Mr. Allawi made the announcement Tuesday .
He did not specify which officials will appear in court , nor whether former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein will be among them .
Speaking to Iraq 's interim National Council , the Prime Minister said a top aide of wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has been killed and that two others have been captured .
Mr. Allawi also said investigators have discovered a new mass grave that may contain about 500 bodies .
He said the grave was found in a city northeast of Baghdad .
He gave no other details about the gravesite .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says rebels from Western Sahara have freed their last Moroccan prisoners of war .
Rebels from the Polisario Front handed over the 404 soldiers Thursday in the southern Algerian town of Tindouf .
They had held many of the Moroccans for two decades .
The rebels said they hoped the release would help clear the way for a peace settlement for Western Sahara .
They also urged Morocco to release any remaining rebel prisoners .
The Red Cross says Thursday 's release follows U.S. mediation .
A senior U.S. senator , Richard Lugar , arrived in Algeria Thursday to monitor the release .
The Polisario Front captured some 2,000 Moroccan troops in its 16-year war with Morocco over the desert territory .
The conflict began when Spain pulled out of the territory in 1975 .
A cease-fire was reached in 1991 .
Separate attacks in Afghanistan have wounded five U.S. soldiers and left a local government official dead .
The soldiers were wounded Saturday when their armored vehicle was hit by a bomb in eastern Kunar province .
Coalition forces responded with small arms fire .
In a separate attack , a suicide bomber targeted Afghan and coalition forces in Kandahar province .
None of the troops was reported killed or wounded .
However , security forces shot and killed a suspected accomplice to the attack .
A purported Taleban spokesman claimed responsibility for the two bombings .
In northern Tahhar province , Afghan officials say unidentified gunmen killed a local government official .
They say Sayed Sadeq was killed by men who broke into his house early Saturday .
Sadeq was the speaker of the Tahhar provincial assembly .
Iran is promising a mighty response to any aggression from Israel , as political hostilities between the two governments continue to increase .
The latest warning from Tehran came during an interview with Iranian Defense Minister Mostafa Mohammad Najjar Friday by the official Islamic Republic News Agency .
He was responding to questions about escalating troubles with Israel , including speculation of an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear facilities .
The defense minister said Iran 's armed forces would provide a rapid , strong and destructive response to any such attack .
Iran 's foreign relations have been further strained by controversial comments by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The hard-line president has called for Israel to be " wiped off the map . "
He has also cast doubt on the Holocaust , and has suggested that Israel be moved to Europe .
A state-run Chinese newspaper reported Monday that more than 200 people are expected to go on trial this week for their involvement in sectarian riots last month in the western region of Xinjiang .
The official China Daily said the trials will take place in Urumqi , the capital of Xinjiang and the site of China 's worst ethnic violence in decades .
Nearly 200 people were killed and about 1,700 injured .
The paper said the charges include vandalizing public property , organizing crowds to cause bodily harm , robbery , murder and arson , among other crimes .
Beijing blamed the violence on outside forces stirring up separatist sentiments among the mostly Muslim Uighur minority , but Uighurs blame the police for provoking the violence .
Egypt says it will not ratify a key treaty banning nuclear tests unless Israel first signs a separate agreement calling for a halt to the spread of atomic bombs .
In Cairo Friday , Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit linked Egyptian ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to Israeli acceptance of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty , or NPT .
Mr. Gheit said the refusal of Israel to sign the non-proliferation accord is a threat to the stability of the entire Middle East .
All Middle Eastern countries except Israel have signed the NPT , which aims to stop the spread of nuclear weapons .
Israel and Egypt have both signed the other treaty banning nuclear tests , but neither nation has ratified it .
Israel has not officially stated that it has nuclear weapons , but it is widely believed to have about 200 nuclear warheads .
U.S. troops opened fire on a civilian vehicle north of Baghdad Monday , killing at least three Iraqis , including a child , when troops say the vehicle failed to stop as ordered .
But surviving family members say five people , including three children , were killed .
U.S. Major Steve Warren called the deaths a tragedy .
Hours later , a car bomb exploded as a U.S. convoy passed in the same area , killing four Iraqis .
Meanwhile , at a reconciliation conference in Cairo , Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani said he is willing to hold talks with insurgents and members of the ousted government .
Mr. Talabani then traveled to Tehran for the first visit to Iran by an Iraqi head of state in nearly four decades .
He met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for wide-ranging talks on relations and the fight against terrorism .
Vice President Dick Cheney says the Bush administration has all the legal authority it needs to wiretap phone calls and e-mails between U.S. citizens and persons abroad suspected of links to terrorism .
Cheney was asked on a national U.S. television show PBSNewshour Tuesday if the president would be willing to work with Congress to settle some of the disputes about the legality of the secret surveillance program .
He expressed concern that the legislative process could lead to the disclosure of sensitive operational matters .
Meanwhile , a Republican member of Congress has called for a full congressional investigation into the wiretapping program .
Congresswoman Heather Wilson - chairwoman of a House Intelligence Subcommittee - told The New York Times she has " serious concerns " about the program .
On Monday , Attorney General Alberto Gonzales faced tough questions on the program from several members of a Senate panel .
Turkish and European Union officials are meeting Monday in Ankara to discuss Turkey 's progress in making reforms ahead of EU membership talks scheduled for later this year .
EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn is expected to press Turkey to sign a protocol that will amount to a de-facto recognition of Cyprus ' internationally-recognized Greek government .
Turkey must sign the protocol before formal EU membership talks can begin on October third .
Ankara previously refused to recognize the Greek government of Cyprus , which joined the EU last May .
Turkey is the only country in the world that recognizes the government of the Turkish-ruled part of Cyprus .
Mr. Rehn is also expected to push Ankara to continue with efforts to stop torture , improve freedom of expression , and increase the rights of women and the Kurdish minority .
An Australian prosecutor said Thursday a terrorism defendant admitted to police he was recruited by al-Qaida to monitor military bases in the country .
Joseph Terrence Thomas has pleaded not guilty to charges that he received funds from al-Qaida , supported the terrorist group 's activities and held a fake passport .
But prosecutor Nicholas Robinson told the Victoria state Supreme Court that Thomas admitted to Australian police he trained at an al-Qaida camp in Afghanistan in 2001 , and had been told to watch military activities in Australia .
The prosecutor said Thomas also told police he saw al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in close quarters on several occasions .
He said Thomas told police he accepted $ 3,500 and a plane ticket from an al-Qaida agent in Pakistan .
The United States has welcomed the release of 32 Ethiopian opposition members who had been detained in Ethiopia since post-election violence in 2005 .
The State Department said the release of the opposition figures Saturday will promote political dialogue in the country .
It urged the Ethiopian government to continue to encourage national reconciliation and political reform .
The opposition members were the second group of opposition figures released since July .
Another 38 were released last month after receiving life sentences .
None of the 32 freed on Saturday had been charged in court with any crimes .
All the opposition members had been rounded up after protests over the 2005 elections turned violent .
Ethiopian security forces killed at least 193 people while stopping the protests .
The opposition made its largest gains ever in the 2005 elections .
Opposition groups claimed the elections were rigged to keep Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in power .
Reports from China say protests broke out in the eastern province of Zhejiang at a factory suspected of pollution .
Witnesses are quoted Monday as saying several villagers were injured when they clashed with police Saturday outside the Tian Neng Battery Company in Meishan .
The protesters are said to have burned several police cars and damaged factory and government buildings .
There has been no official report of the violence .
Local residents say the battery factory is responsible for high levels of lead that have poisoned their children .
The protest over industrial pollution is the third this year in Zhejiang province .
China has been struck by violent protests in recent months as rural villagers vent anger over industrial pollution and allegations of corruption and unfair land distribution .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has decided against separating the Kosovo section of the trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic from that involving Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The three-judge panel made the decision Tuesday , in an effort to speed up the Milosevic trial .
It previously had suggested a division , amid growing concerns about the former Yugoslav president 's poor health , which has repeatedly delayed the proceedings .
The court also adjourned the trial until January 23 , ahead of a planned Christmas break , giving Mr. Milosevic an additional three weeks to rest .
It rejected Mr. Milosevic 's request for extra time to present his defense , and it criticized him for focusing most of his time on Kosovo in efforts to force the court to give him the extension .
Mr. Milosevic faces more than 60 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role in the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s .
Over the past 20 years the government has transformed New Zealand from an agrarian economy dependent on concessionary British market access to a more industrialized , free market economy that can compete globally .
This dynamic growth has boosted real incomes - but left behind some at the bottom of the ladder - and broadened and deepened the technological capabilities of the industrial sector .
Per capita income rose for ten consecutive years until 2007 in purchasing power parity terms , but fell in 2008 - 09 .
Debt-driven consumer spending drove robust growth in the first half of the decade , helping fuel a large balance of payments deficit that posed a challenge for economic managers .
Inflationary pressures caused the central bank to raise its key rate steadily from January 2004 until it was among the highest in the OECD in 2007 - 08 ; international capital inflows attracted to the high rates further strengthened the currency and housing market , however , aggravating the current account deficit .
The economy fell into recession before the start of the global financial crisis and contracted for five consecutive quarters in 2008 - 09 .
In line with global peers , the central bank cut interest rates aggressively and the government developed fiscal stimulus measures .
The economy posted a 1.7 % decline in 2009 , but pulled out of recession late in the year , and achieved 2.1 % growth in 2010 .
Nevertheless , key trade sectors remain vulnerable to weak external demand .
The government plans to raise productivity growth and develop infrastructure , while reining in government spending .
The European Union is offering to resume development aid to Sudan , now that an agreement has been reached to end the nation 's 21-year civil war .
In a statement Sunday , the EU offered to give Sudan more than $ 540 million to aid development over the next three years .
But the offer requires that the agreement with southern rebels be implemented .
It also requires Sudan to make progress at ending the separate fighting and humanitarian disaster in its Darfur region .
The EU stopped sending development money to Sudan 14 years ago because of the southern civil war .
Poland has pursued a policy of economic liberalization since 1990 and today stands out as a success story among transition economies .
It is the only country in the European Union to maintain positive GDP growth through the 2008 - 2009 economic downturn .
GDP per capita is still much below the EU average , but is similar to that of the three Baltic states .
Since 2004 , EU membership and access to EU structural funds have provided a major boost to the economy .
Unemployment fell rapidly to 6.4 % in October 2008 , but climbed back to 11.8 % for the year 2010 , exceeding the EU average by more than 2 % .
Inflation reached a low of about 2.6 % in 2010 due to the global economic slowdown but has since climbed and is expected to remain around 3 % , and close to the upper limit of the National Bank of Poland 's target rate .
Poland 's economic performance could improve over the longer term if the country addresses some of the remaining deficiencies in its road and rail infrastructure and its business environment .
An inefficient commercial court system , a rigid labor code , bureaucratic red tape , burdensome tax system , and persistent low-level corruption keep the private sector from performing up to its full potential .
Rising demands to fund health care , education , and the state pension system caused the public sector budget deficit to rise to 7.9 % of GDP in 2010 .
The PO/PSL coalition government , which came to power in November 2007 , has planned to reduce the budget deficit in 2011 and has also announced its intention to enact business-friendly reforms , increase workforce participation , reduce public sector spending growth , lower taxes , and accelerate privatization .
The government has moved slowly on most major reforms , but has sped up privatization .
The Iraqi prime minister 's office says the journalist who threw his shoes at U.S. President George Bush has apologized .
A spokesman for Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said Thursday that reporter Muntazer al-Zaidi wrote a letter in which he asked for Mr. Maliki 's pardon , calling his display an " ugly act . "
Relatives of Zaidi immediately cast doubt that he would write such a letter of his own accord .
The reporter has been in custody since the incident Sunday .
He faces up to 15 years in prison , depending on what charges will be made against him and if he is found guilty .
Thousands of Iraqis have protested in the streets , demanding his release .
Zaidi has become somewhat of a folk hero for his action against Mr. Bush , who spearheaded the invasion of Iraq .
The Afghan government has welcomed the extradition of 14 Taleban insurgents from Pakistan to Kabul , but also urged its neighbor to hunt down more suspected militants hiding in Pakistan .
A government spokesman says such moves will strengthen relations between the two countries and will open a new era of cooperation in the war against terrorism .
Among those extradited were purported Taleban spokesmen Latif Hakimi and Mohammad Yasir .
Afghan state television showed Afghan soldiers leading the 14 men , all blindfolded , off a military plane late Wednesday .
Afghan officials say they will be put on trial for their role in violence against government targets , as well as Afghan and coalition forces .
Meanwhile , a bomb attached to a bicycle blew up Thursday , in the southern city of Kandahar , killing a policeman and wounding two civilians .
Scientists are hailing the results of a new study that shows a drug already used to treat advanced cancer has proven extremely effective against an aggressive form of early breast cancer .
In an article published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine , researchers found the drug Herceptin can prevent 50 percent of all breast tumors from recurring in patients with early stages of the disease .
The drug , which targets only diseased cells , only works for the estimated 20-percent of breast cancer cases in which tumors produce too much of a protein known as HER-2 .
Breast cancer is the most common cause of cancer among women in the United States .
More than 200,000 American women will be diagnosed with breast cancer , and about 40,000 women will die of the disease in the United States in 2005 .
Officials say Herceptin will be marketed internationally by the Swiss drugmaker Roche .
North Korea says it will not dismantle its nuclear program before any new talks aimed at eliminating its access to nuclear weapons .
The commentary in the official Rodong Sinmun newspaper also says Pyongyang has neither opposed nor shunned the six-party talks on its nuclear ambitions .
The newspaper comments come amid renewed speculation that a new round of negotiations could begin within the next few weeks .
Three rounds of talks have been held in Beijing , but a fourth session scheduled for June , 2004 failed to take place because North Korea boycotted the process over what it called a hostile U.S. attitude .
But earlier this month , North Korean leader Kim Jong-il said the talks could resume as early as July .
U.S. troops have killed eight insurgents in western Iraq , as military officials dispute claims that militants have kidnapped two U.S. Marines .
About one thousand U.S. troops launched the offensive near the Syrian border , in the latest attempt to drive insurgents from the area .
Residents said the operation appeared to be widening Sunday to several nearby towns .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials said they had no reason to believe an alleged statement from al Qaida in Iraq claiming to have kidnapped two Marines involved in the military offensive .
In a statement , U.S. officials said they were conducting checks to verify that all Marines were accounted for .
An Islamist web site carried the kidnapping claim , which demanded the release of female Sunni Muslim prisoners .
In Baghdad , militants freed the brother of Interior Minister Bayan Jabor , who was kidnapped one day earlier near the Sadr City district .
Independent from France in 1960 , Mauritania annexed the southern third of the former Spanish Sahara ( now Western Sahara ) in 1976 but relinquished it after three years of raids by the Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory .
Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA seized power in a coup in 1984 and ruled Mauritania with a heavy hand for more than two decades .
A series of presidential elections that he held were widely seen as flawed .
A bloodless coup in August 2005 deposed President TAYA and ushered in a military council that oversaw a transition to democratic rule .
Independent candidate Sidi Ould Cheikh ABDALLAHI was inaugurated in April 2007 as Mauritania 's first freely and fairly elected president .
His term ended prematurely in August 2008 when a military junta led by General Mohamed Ould Abdel AZIZ deposed him and ushered in a military council government .
AZIZ was subsequently elected president in July 2009 and sworn in the following month .
The country continues to experience ethnic tensions among its black population ( Afro-Mauritanians ) and white and black Moor ( Arab-Berber ) communities , and is having to confront a growing terrorism threat by al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb ( AQIM ) .
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers says it has finished pumping water out of New Orleans , after the southern city flooded as a result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
A spokeswoman for the Corps made the announcement Tuesday after working for weeks to pump the water out at a rate of about 15 centimeters per day .
The Corps of Engineers is responsible for New Orleans ' levees and flood walls .
Most of the city is below sea level , and some 80 percent of it flooded after Katrina when water overflowed some flood walls and broke through others .
Some neighborhoods were inundated a second time when Rita brought heavy rains last month .
The Corps spokeswoman said the levees will be repaired to a pre-Katrina level of readiness by next June .
An international media group says it is disturbed by the recent arrests of two television broadcasters by Afghan authorities .
Reporters Without Borders says Fahim Kohdamani of Emroz TV and Ajmal Alamzai of Ariana TV were arrested on Monday for airing programs deemed anti-Islamic and for speaking with Taliban representatives .
It says Kohdamani was arrested for broadcasting music and hosting an entertainment program .
In a statement Tuesday , the group says his arrest appeared to be linked to a letter of complaint sent to President Hamid Karzai by Muslim clerics .
Alamzai , the host of Ariana TV 's program " Didadgah , " was detained for speaking with a Taliban member during a program that discussed U.S. efforts to reach out to moderate Islamic insurgents .
The statement says he was released late Monday evening .
Pope Benedict XVI says science has narrowed humanity 's understanding of the origins of life and that the theory of evolution can neither be proven or dismissed .
The pope 's extended views on evolution are appearing in print for the first time as part of a newly published German book called Creation and Evolution .
He writes that evolution can never be known for sure because it is impossible to conduct controlled laboratory experiments into the theory .
But Benedict does not give a 100 percent endorsement of creationism or intelligent design , saying the debate must be philosophical and go beyond science .
Advocates of intelligent design say life on Earth is too complex to have evolved randomly and must be the product of a higher power .
Iraqi authorities have imposed tight security in and around Baghdad and the holy city of Karbala where Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims are converging for a major religious ceremony .
Officials expect two million pilgrims to join the main Ashura observances Thursday , marking the seventh century martyrdom of Imam Hussein , one of Shi'ite Islam 's most revered leaders .
Government troops have sealed off Karbala to vehicles and are body-searching the arriving pilgrims .
Police in Baghdad also imposed tight security in Kadhimiya district - another site of Shi'ite pilgrimage - and set up checkpoints around the city .
Despite the security , Iraq 's higher education minister survived a bomb attack in Baghdad that wounded three people .
In the past , insurgents have attacked pilgrims during Ashura observances .
In 2004 , about 170 people were killed .
Chinese officials are reporting a new outbreak of bird flu in poultry - this time in northern China .
China 's agriculture ministry said Friday that a state lab has confirmed that more than 200 birds died of the H5N1 strain of bird flu in Inner Mongolia .
More than 16,000 birds have been culled in an effort to contain the outbreak .
Earlier Friday , Indonesia said it has received permission from Swiss drug giant Roche to locally produce Tamiflu , the drug thought to be most effective in treating bird flu in humans .
Roche also announced that it would provide Taiwan with an additional 1.3 million treatments of Tamiflu .
The company said it made the decision after determining that local companies could not produce the drug more rapidly or at a lower cost .
Nearly 70 people have died of bird flu in Asia since 2003 .
A newspaper report says the United States has been flying drones over Iran for almost a year , looking for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and weaknesses in air defenses .
In Sunday 's editions , The Washington Post quotes three U.S. officials as saying the U.S. military has been launching the unmanned surveillance flights from Iraq .
There has been no U.S. comment on the report .
An Iranian spokesman Sunday again warned the United States not to attack its nuclear facilities .
He also rejected a European proposal aimed at restricting Tehran 's development of nuclear fuel .
Iran has said in the past it would stop plans to build a heavy water nuclear reactor , which can be used to make nuclear weapons-grade material as well as for nuclear energy .
But Sunday in Tehran , a foreign ministry spokesman said Iran will go forward with the heavy water reactor and will not replace it under any circumstances .
A statement attributed to the militant group al-Qaida In Iraq says four Iraqis carried out the triple suicide bombings in Jordan that killed at least 57 people and wounded more than 100 others .
The statement , which appeared Friday , on an Islamist website associated with the group , says the team included three men and a woman married to one of the attackers .
The statement came as U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan met with officials in Amman to discuss Wednesday 's attacks .
Jordanian King Abdullah has vowed to track down and bring to justice the militants who helped plan the suicide bombings on three hotels .
Government officials said most of the dead are Jordanians , but at least 12 foreigners have been identified , including two Americans .
Unidentified gunmen have fired on a car carrying a Czech diplomat in Afghanistan , injuring his two bodyguards .
Filip Velach , the Czech charge d'affaires , was not hurt in the attack which took place about 100 kilometers outside the capital , Kabul .
The three sought safety in a house and were later rescued by NATO 's International Security Assistance Force .
Last month , the Czech Republic opened a diplomatic office in Kabul , headed by Velach .
More than 150 Czech troops are currently serving in Afghanistan .
Embattled federal emergency management chief Michael Brown has been relieved of his duties managing the massive hurricane relief effort along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff Friday in Baton Rouge said Coast Guard Vice Admiral Thad Allen will take charge of federal operations in the region .
Admiral Allen has been overseeing the rescue and recovery efforts in the devastated city of New Orleans .
Mr. Chertoff said Mr. Brown will return to Washington to oversee the Federal Emergency Management Agency 's operations nationwide .
A number of congressional leaders and Louisiana officials have fiercely criticized the federal government 's initial response to the disaster and have called on President Bush to fire Mr. Brown .
Several Democratic Senators said recalling Mr. Brown to oversee the emergency management agency in Washington is a bad decision .
They say his continued presence in the critical position endangers the success of recovery efforts .
The head of the U.S. central bank says the current housing crisis in the United States demands a " vigorous response . "
In a speech to a banking group in Florida , Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said foreclosures and late payments on mortgages are likely to continue rising " for a while longer . "
He said the current banking industry-backed plan that has seen some lenders lowering interest rates or working out payment plans is a " step in the right direction . "
Bernanke says it is in lenders ' interest to do more to avoid the huge cost of foreclosures .
He says it is good for communities and the nation 's economy to offer more help to more homeowners .
Recent declines in home values have made it difficult for troubled homeowners to solve their problems by refinancing or selling their properties .
One hot summer 's day a Fox was strolling through an orchard till he came to a bunch of Grapes just ripening on a vine which had been trained over a lofty branch .
" Just the thing to quench my thirst , " quoth he .
Drawing back a few paces , he took a run and a jump , and just missed the bunch .
Turning round again with a One , Two , Three , he jumped up , but with no greater success .
Again and again he tried after the tempting morsel , but at last had to give it up , and walked away with his nose in the air , saying : " I am sure they are sour . "
It is easy to despise what you can not get .
Iraqi police say gunmen wearing Iraqi special forces uniforms have kidnapped a wealthy businessman and his son , after killing five of their bodyguards .
Police Friday say Ghalib Abdul Hussein Kubba , director-general of the Basra International Bank , was abducted from his home in western Baghdad late Thursday , along with his son .
Officers say no demands have been made so far .
In northern Baghdad , police say they discovered the bodies of at least three unidentified men who had been shot dead .
Elsewhere , insurgents have blown up an oil pipeline , sabotaging oil delivery .
In other developments , a White House spokesman Friday stressed that Iraqi police forces must adhere to the highest human rights standards .
The comments come as Iraq 's interior ministry investigates allegations that death squads are operating within the police force and targeting Sunni Arabs .
The U.S. military says violence in Iraq has killed three American soldiers near the southern port city of Basra .
A statement released Friday says the troops were killed during an attack on a coalition base .
The statement says the troops were killed by " indirect fire " late Thursday .
The U.S. military often refers to mortar and rocket attacks as " indirect fire " .
Violence in the region has dropped sharply since coalition and Iraqi forces moved to take control of Basra from Shi'ite militias last year .
On Tuesday , the top U.S. military commander in southern Iraq Colonel Butch Kievenaar warned that some of the Shi'ite fighters who fled to Iran have started to return to the area .
Justine Henin-Hardenne says she will not play for Belgium 's Fed Cup tennis team when it takes on Russia in the opening round of the women 's team event next year .
The world number five Henin-Hardenne said Tuesday that injuries and illness have compromised her 2005 season and she wants to avoid further problems in 2006 .
After winning the French Open in June , Henin-Hardenne has been troubled by a thigh injury for much of the season .
The Belgian star says she will concentrate on regaining the world number-one ranking .
The announcement is a big blow to Belgium 's Fed Cup hopes because world number three Kim Clijsters announced that she would also skip the competition if Henin-Hardenne does not play .
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan has praised donor nations for pledging $ 4.5 billion for rebuilding Sudan , but says promises alone are not enough .
In an opinion piece published Wednesday in The New York Times , Mr. Annan again urged the donors to immediately convert their pledges to cash .
He also called for more protection forces in Sudan 's war-torn western Darfur region to prevent " yet more death and suffering . "
Donor nations meeting in Oslo this week pledged $ 4.5 billion to help rebuild southern Sudan after 21 years of civil war .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick said Tuesday that the U.S. pledge of nearly $ 2 billion is contingent upon Khartoum putting an end to atrocities committed in Darfur .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli forces have killed at least four militants during a raid in the southern Gaza Strip .
Israeli troops and tanks entered the Khan Younis refugee camp early Thursday , in an operation the army says is aimed at stopping Palestinian militants ' mortar and rocket attacks on nearby Jewish settlements .
Meanwhile , Israel 's Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told the Jerusalem Post that Israel should follow up next year 's planned pullout from the Gaza Strip with a much larger withdrawal from the West Bank .
Mr. Olmert said he believes such a move would be in Israel 's interest .
On Wednesday , interim Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas called on Israel to dismantle its separation barrier along the West Bank .
Mr. Abbas is running in the January 9 presidential election to succeed the late Yasser Arafat .
A leader of Taiwan 's largest opposition party is traveling to China Monday in a rare visit to the mainland just days after China passed a controversial anti-secession law .
Nationalist Party Vice Chairman Chiang Ping-kun will lead the party 's first official delegation in decades to the southern Chinese city of Ghangzhou to pay homage at the graves of party members who died in an uprising nearly a century ago .
The group will also visit the grave of Nationalist party leader Sun Yat Sen in Nangjing .
The Nationalist party is seen as closer to Beijing than Taiwan 's ruling Democratic Progressive party .
Reports say the trip is aimed at reducing tension over China 's new anti-secession law , which authorizes China use force on Taiwan if it declares independence .
A suicide bombing near a busy shrine in southern Afghanistan has killed at least one policeman .
A local police official said the attacker blew himself up next to police guarding a shrine in Kandahar province filled with people celebrating the traditional new year Friday in Arghandab district .
Several other people were wounded .
Another bombing reported near a shrine in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif injured four people .
And NATO said a soldier was killed on Thursday in an explosion in the south .
The alliance did not release the soldier 's nationality or the exact location of the accident .
But U.S. , NATO and Afghan forces are fighting daily battles against Taliban and other insurgents in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
A man walked into a Circle-K , put a $ 20 bill on the counter and asked for change .
When the clerk opened the cash drawer , the man pulled out a gun and asked for all the cash in the register , which the clerk promptly provided .
The man took the cash from the clerk and fled , leaving the $ 20 bill on the counter .
The total amount of cash he got from the drawer ?
Fifteen dollars .
If someone points a gun at you and gives you money , was a crime committed ?
A senior Central Intelligence Agency officer has resigned so he can speak openly about what he sees as the government 's failure to understand the threat from the al-Qaida terrorist network .
Michael Scheuer , the former chief of the CIA 's Osama bin Laden unit , said he believes there has not been adequate national debate over the nature of the threat posed by bin Laden and the forces he leads and inspires .
The CIA allowed Mr. Scheuer to publish his book " Imperial Hubris " anonymously and to conduct media interviews under the name " Mike . "
But he became a critic of the U.S.-led war in Iraq , saying it has inflamed anti-American sentiment among Muslims , and his name eventually became known .
He is also critical of how CIA resources are being used to go after al-Qaida .
The CIA has declined to comment .
Heritage Media Corp. , New York , said it offered to buy the shares of POP Radio Corp. it does n't already own in a stock swap .
Heritage , which owns 51 % of POP 's 3.6 million shares outstanding , said it will exchange one share of a new preferred stock for each POP common share it does n't already own .
Depending upon how many warrants and options are exercised prior to completion of the transaction , Heritage would issue between 1.8 million and 2.35 million preferred shares , a Heritage spokesman estimated .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , POP plunged $ 4 to $ 14.75 .
The preferred stock , which would have a dividend rate of $ 1.76 a year , would be convertible into Heritage common at a rate of four common shares for each preferred .
New York-based POP Radio provides , through a national , in-store network , a customized music , information and advertising service which simulates live radio .
Heritage owns and operates television and radio stations and in-store advertising and promotion programs .
Turkey has reaffirmed its commitment to meet standards for European Union membership , after critics said momentum toward that goal had slowed .
Following meetings Monday in Ankara with EU diplomats , Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul denied that Turkish commitment to joining the Union is lagging .
Also speaking after the talks , Luxembourg Deputy Foreign Minister Nicolas Schmit , whose country currently holds the rotating EU presidency , said that Turkey must continue to implement reforms .
Turkey has yet to sign a customs pact that it agreed to in December .
The pact includes Cyprus , but does not require Ankara to officially recognize the Greek Cypriot government on the divided island .
The European Union has indicated that Turkish goodwill gestures involving the divided island , which joined the EU last May , could help Ankara when it begins EU membership talks in October .
French President Jacques Chirac has announced he will hold a nationwide referendum on the European Union 's constitution before the middle of next year .
In his televised New Year 's Address Friday the French leader , who supports the EU constitution , told his compatriots they will , in his words , have Europe 's future in their hands .
Mr. Chirac and other European Union leaders signed the constitution at a summit in Rome in late October , but most of the 25 EU member states still have to ratify it .
The document creates new top-level EU positions , such as a permanent EU Council Presidency and a Foreign Ministry .
It also modifies the bloc 's decision-making process .
In France , right-wing critics worry that it enhances EU powers at the expense of the member states , while left-wing opponents say it enshrines the rights of business to the detriment of workers .
The United States has officially ended its peacekeeping presence in Bosnia-Herzegovina , although some American soldiers will remain in the Balkan country to help hunt down war crimes suspects .
U.S. military officials marked the end of the peacekeeping presence Wednesday , with a ceremony at Eagle Base in the Tuzla area .
Some 700 Americans now serve in the NATO-led Stabilization Force , which has fewer than 10,000 soldiers in Bosnia .
NATO troops began peacekeeping in Bosnia after the December 1995 Dayton agreement halted the Bosnian conflict .
Most of the American soldiers will leave when NATO hands over peacekeeping duties next week to a European Union Force that will number 7,000 .
About 150 American soldiers will remain at Eagle Base to focus on hunting for war crimes suspects like fugitive former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic .
A Shi'ite member of Iraq 's parliament says followers of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr will quit the national unity government if Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki meets with President Bush in Jordan next week .
Parliamentarian Qusai Abdul-Wahab issued a statement on behalf of the group Friday .
He said the group would also withdraw if the security situation in Iraq does not improve .
Al-Sadr 's followers hold six cabinet seats and have 30 members in the 275-member parliament .
Mr. Bush and Mr. Maliki are scheduled to meet Wednesday and Thursday in the Jordanian capital , Amman , to discuss the situation in Iraq .
Hungary has become the second country to ratify the European Union 's constitution .
In Budapest Monday , the Hungarian parliament voted overwhelmingly to approve the pact , which aims to streamline the workings of the 25-member bloc .
Hungary , which entered the European Union on May 1 , joins Lithuania as the only countries that have ratified the EU constitution .
The text has been accepted by leaders of all member states , but must still be ratified by each country before it comes into force .
The constitution will create an EU president and foreign minister .
It is aimed at speeding up decision-making by ending national vetoes in certain policy areas , including the economy , the judiciary and education .
Turkish police have detained 23 people suspected of having links with the al-Qaida terrorist network .
Police detained the suspects Wednesday in the northwestern province of Bursa .
In May , police detained 11 suspected al-Qaida militants who were believed to be planning terrorist attacks in Istanbul .
A Turkish al-Qaida cell was blamed in four suicide bombings in 2003 that killed at least 58 people and injured hundreds more .
Those attacks targeted two synagogues , the British consulate and a London-based bank .
Ukraine 's parliament has opened an emergency session to debate the country 's disputed presidential runoff election .
Lawmakers meeting Saturday do not have the power to overturn last Sunday 's vote .
But their evaluation of the situation could influence the Supreme Court when it meets on Monday to consider reports by the opposition and international monitors of widespread election fraud .
Also due to meet Saturday , is a multilateral committee tasked with resolving the political stalemate .
It comprises representatives of both candidates - opposition challenger Viktor Yushchenko , and Moscow-backed Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
Late Friday , Mr. Yushchenko called for fresh elections on December 12 as he addressed thousands of supporters who have been demonstrating in Kiev since Sunday .
Disputed official results indicate the pro-Western politician narrowly lost the runoff .
Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori has been arrested in Chile , just hours after his unexpected arrival there .
Officials in Lima and Santiago say Mr. Fujimori was arrested at his hotel by Chilean police Monday .
He is wanted in Peru on charges of corruption and human rights abuses related to the death squad murders of 25 people .
Mr. Fujimori , who was born in Peru to Japanese immigrants , fled to Japan in 2000 .
Tokyo has refused to extradite him because he holds Japanese nationality .
In a statement issued after his arrival in Chile , Mr. Fujimori said he would reside there temporarily while launching a campaign for the Peruvian presidency in the 2006 elections .
The government of Peru had requested that Chilean authorities arrest Mr. Fujimori .
A senior NATO official says U.S.-led coalition forces plan to increase their use of the US air base in Kyrgyzstan , now that neighboring Uzbekistan has ordered American forces off a base there .
NATO 's special representative for the Caucasus and Central Asia , Robert Simmons , made the announcement on Monday during his visit to the Kyrgyz capital , Bishkek .
Both Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan allowed the United States to set up air bases in 2001 to help anti-terror operations in nearby Afghanistan .
But two months ago , the Uzbek government asked Washington to leave the Karshi-Khanabad base .
The request came just days after Washington criticized the Uzbek government for a violent military crackdown on an opposition rally in eastern Uzbekistan .
Kyrgyz authorities , however , have said U.S. forces can use the Manas air base near Bishkek for as long as required .
China is reporting a new outbreak of bird flu in poultry in the northwest Xinjiang region .
Agriculture ministry officials said Thursday the virus responsible for the 11 dead birds in Turpan city has been confirmed as the highly contagious H5N1 type .
More than 5,000 birds have been culled to contain the new outbreak .
In Indonesia , agriculture officials say hundreds of chickens infected with the most deadly strain of avian influenza have died in three districts in Aceh .
In Vietnam , public health officials say a 15-year-old boy from the northern port city of Haiphong has tested positive for the same H5N1 strain of the flu virus .
The findings have not yet been confirmed by the World Health Organization .
Nearly 70 people have died from bird flu in Asia since 2003 .
All known human cases of avian flu are believed to have resulted from close contact with infected birds .
U.S. President George Bush says the nation 's entire economy is at risk , and Congress needs to approve a $ 700 billion financial rescue plan .
In a nationally televised address Wednesday night , Mr. Bush said his administration is taking decisive action and is working with Congress to address the financial crisis .
Mr. Bush also said action is needed to prevent a long , and painful recession .
He acknowledged that the expensive bailout package is a " tough vote " for many members of Congress , but said failure to act would cause more severe problems later .
Mr. Bush also said he has invited Republican presidential nominee John McCain and Democratic nominee Barack Obama to a meeting with Congressional leaders Thursday in Washington to discuss the issue .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani vowed to fight terrorism as he embarked Saturday , on a visit to Washington to meet with U.S. President George Bush .
Prime Minister Gilani told reporters near Islamabad the fight against extremism is Pakistan 's own cause .
Mr. Gilani 's trip comes as violence continues to rise in the tribal regions of northwest Pakistan .
U.S. and Afghan officials have called on Pakistan to fight militants who launch attacks on Afghan and foreign forces along the Afghan border .
The Pakistani government has repeatedly said it will not allow foreign forces to conduct operations against militants on Pakistani soil .
Mr. Gilani 's visit is the first official trip to Washington since taking office in March .
The Pakistani leader will also meet with U.S. presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain .
Every two years , the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City mounts an exhibition of new art made in the U.S.
The show aims to survey contemporary art 's newest trends and methods .
Not surprisingly , given its influence on young artists and art markets , the result is often controversial .
Some have taken to calling it the show that people love to hate .
The Whitney 's 2008 Biennial , its 74th , continues that tradition .
VOA 's Carolyn Weaver reports .
Mary J. Blige , Jamie Foxx , and Jennifer Hudson were among the winners at the 21st annual Soul Train Music Awards , held March 10 in Pasadena , California .
Mary J. Blige took the Best Female Album award for The Breakthrough , while Jamie Foxx brought home Best Male Album honors for Unpredictable .
Former American Idol castoff Jennifer Hudson continued her Cinderella story , winning the Entertainer Of The Year award for her supporting role in the movie Dreamgirls .
She also received an Academy Award and an NAACP Image Award for her role .
Pope Benedict has declared Sunday a special day of prayer for Middle East peace .
He also renewed an appeal for an immediate ceasefire between Israel and the Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
Benedict issued his plea as he spoke to thousands of pilgrims at his summer retreat in the Italian Alps .
The pontiff reiterated statements supporting Lebanon 's sovereignty and Israel 's right to live in peace .
He expressed a special closeness to what he called the " defenseless civilian populations unjustly hit in a conflict in which they are only victims . "
He said those victims include those in northern Israel forced to live in shelters to avoid Hezbollah rocket attacks , and " the multitudes of Lebanese who once again are seeing their country destroyed . "
The NBA season is so long the players seldom get time to spend at home with their butlers and chauffeurs .
Nine former communist-ruled NATO countries and Canada have urged alliance members to overcome their disagreements and initiate the membership process for Georgia and Ukraine at next month 's summit in Bucharest .
Representatives of Bulgaria , the Czech Republic , Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland , Slovakia , Slovenia and Romania as well as Canada expressed their views in a letter to NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer .
The message says extending a NATO Membership Action Plan to Georgia and Ukraine will increase stability and security in Europe .
It adds failure to do so would create doubts that NATO membership is available to all democratic countries .
Russia strongly opposes further NATO expansion .
Some larger NATO members have expressed doubts that Georgia fully satisfies alliance standards for democracy .
They also note that a large proportion of Ukrainian citizens opposes NATO entry .
Iranians have marked the 22nd anniversary of the U.S. downing of an Iranian passenger jet with a ceremony at the site where the plane crashed .
Family members of the 290 people killed were among those who gathered in Persian Gulf waters Saturday , where they laid flowers in memory of Flight 655 victims .
A statement from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was read at the ceremony .
He called the downing a " tragic human catastrophe " that was " not an understandable incident " but a " declaration of war against humanity . "
The USS Vincennes shot down the passenger plane on July 3 , 1988 , shortly after the aircraft took off from the Iranian city of Bandar Abbas for Dubai in the United Arab Emirates .
The U.S. said it mistook the airliner for a hostile Iranian fighter jet .
The U.S. paid Iran more than $ 100 million in compensation as part of a 1996 settlement .
A Missouri farmer passed away and left 17 mules to his three sons .
The instructions left in the will said that the oldest boy was to get one-half , the second oldest one-third , and the youngest one-ninth .
The three sons , recognizing the difficulty of dividing 17 mules into these fractions , began to argue .
Their uncle heard about the argument , hitched up his mule and drove out to settle the matter .
He added his mule to the 17 , making 18 .
The oldest therefore got one-half , or nine , the second oldest got one-third , or six , and the youngest son got one-ninth , or two .
Adding up 9 , 6 and 2 equals 17 .
The uncle , having settled the argument , hitched up his mule and drove home .
Thousands of college students are returning to New Orleans this week , as the city 's universities open after a semester shut down for recovery from Hurricane Katrina .
City officials say the students ' return will sizably increase the city 's population and bring in new consumer dollars .
While some students changed schools after the city flooded last year , most are returning , including 88 percent of students at Tulane University .
The universities are using hotels and trailers to house students and classes , as repairs on flood-damaged facilities continue .
City and state officials are urging students to help rebuild .
Meanwhile , members of the U.S. Senate committee for Homeland Security are assessing hurricane recovery efforts in Mississippi and Louisiana today .
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other .
When the battle was at its height , a Sprat lifted its head out of the waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they would accept him as an umpire .
One of the Dolphins replied , " We would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than admit any interference from you in our affairs . "
A number of senior diplomats are in Washington Monday to mark the 10th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords , which ended the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Those attending Monday 's conference on the accords include the head of Bosnia 's joint presidency , Ivo Miro Jovic , and U.N. High Representative Paddy Ashdown .
The 1995 agreement ended a brutal ethnic war that killed more than 200,000 people .
The accord split the former Yugoslav republic into a Serb Republic and a Muslim-Croat Federation - each with its own government and army .
Bosnian leaders , working with U.S. and European officials , are negotiating a new constitution aimed at simplifying the current arrangement .
Agreement on the peace accords was reached at a U.S. Air Force base in Dayton , Ohio on November 21 , 1995 .
The accords were signed several weeks later .
The head of the Arab League says discussions with Lebanese political rivals on ending the country 's political crisis have not produced an agreement .
Amr Moussa warned that rival political leaders are not talking to each other and he urged them not to increase tensions .
Moussa had been meeting in Beirut with Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and the pro-Syrian opposition to try to bridge the differences between the two sides .
Moussa said on Saturday that he plans to resume mediation efforts in the new year .
In November , the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah and its pro-Syrian allies left Lebanon 's cabinet , demanding more power in the government .
The groups have since organized massive demonstrations in Beirut against the government .
Prime Minister Siniora has the support of Western nations and Saudi Arabia .
He so far has rejected demands to step down .
Australia 's first woman prime minister was sworn in again Tuesday , less than three months after she deposed her predecessor .
Julia Gillard took office this time at the head of a minority government after she lost her majority in polls August 21 and cobbled together a shaky coalition last week , with two independent lawmakers .
Her center-left Labor Party controls 76 seats in the 150-member House or Representatives , meaning a single defection , resignation or death could bring down her government .
Ms. Gillard 's new Cabinet also took the oath of office Tuesday .
On Saturday , she named former leader Kevin Rudd as her foreign minister , less than three months after she ousted him in a surprise party coup .
The U.S. trade deficit has widened to its highest level in more than a year , as exports fell more than imports .
A new report Thursday from the Commerce Department shows the deficit at $ 40.3 billion in April , a slight increase from the previous month .
Despite an overall fall in U.S. exports of goods and services , the report shows a slight rise in sales of industrial supplies and automobiles .
A separate report shows the number of Americans filing first-time unemployment claims fell slightly last week - a sign of hope for the struggling U.S. jobs market .
The Labor Department says the number of laid-off workers filing claims fell by 3,000 to a total of 456,000 .
The report says the number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits after their first week of aid fell by 255,000 , the largest decline in over a year .
Colombian police have deactivated a parcel bomb delivered to the home of a lawmaker allied with President Alvaro Uribe .
Authorities say the package resembled a book and was sent to Armando Benedetti 's home Thursday night .
Benedetti and his aides called police when they noticed something suspicious about the package , which contained an incendiary substance .
Investigators announced a $ 25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons who sent the package .
The incident happened one day after a similar package was sent to a man with the same name as former Defense Minister Rafael Pardo .
China is defending its decision to collect information on foreign journalists covering the 2008 Beijing Olympics , saying the information will be used to help the media , not to hinder reporting .
A media official for Beijing 's Olympic organizing committee , Li Zhanjun , told reporters Tuesday that the database was not created to monitor or threaten journalists .
Li also said it was not a blacklist and stressed that coverage at the Games would be open and transparent .
Meanwhile , Chinese officials denied state-run media reports Monday that the government had created a database of some 30,000 accredited Olympic Games reporters .
A report on Monday quoted China 's top media official , Liu Binjie the minister of the General Administration of Press and Publication , as saying the list was made to help clamp down on " fake reporters " and unlicensed publications .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Israeli and Palestinian representatives are discussing peace initiatives behind closed doors .
Rice spoke to reporters aboard Air Force One Sunday as she accompanied President Bush home from a trip to the Middle East .
She said divulging the contents of the negotiations would endanger their outcome .
The U.S. secretary of state predicted that the talks will intensify in the coming months .
She said that during his trip , Mr. Bush had extensive discussions with all of the Israeli and Palestinian leaders .
She reaffirmed Mr. Bush 's support for the vision of a Palestinian state living side-by-side with Israel .
Uganda 's President Yoweri Museveni says he is open to new peace talks with northern rebels , but only if the meetings take place outside the country .
Speaking in Gulu district on Sunday , Mr. Museveni said government troops in the meantime will press ahead with attacks on rebels in northern Uganda and parts of Sudan .
Uganda 's government has called on rebels of the Lord 's Resistance Army to surrender , saying they will be forgiven .
A cease-fire between the government and rebels expired Friday , after the two sides failed to advance a peace process .
Officials criticized rebel leaders , who said they needed more time for internal discussions on ending the conflict .
The rebels have been fighting to overthrow the Ugandan government since 1987 .
In the Democratic Republic of Congo , government troops backed by United Nations peacekeepers have begun to drive out Rwandan rebels a month after a deadline for their pullout expired .
A U.N. military spokesman says the aim of the joint operation is to clear out as many as 5,000 Rwandan Hutu rebels who have set up camp in Virunga National Park in North Kivu province .
The rebels promised in March they would disarm and return home by the end of October .
But few have done so , asking the Rwandan government for more guarantees .
An estimated 10,000 Rwandan rebels are believed to be in eastern Congo .
They fled to Congo after helping orchestrate Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
Russian officials say the deadly H5N1 strain of the bird flu virus has killed more than 100,000 birds on a poultry farm in southern Russia .
The governor , Alexander Tkachev , of the Krasnodar region said Tuesday that the farm has been quarantined and other measures have been ordered to stop the spread of the virus .
In Paris , the World Organization for Animal Health warned that the H5N1 virus would likely spread across Europe after being found at a French poultry farm .
Officials were holding a second day of talks in the French capital to discuss mass vaccinations and other efforts to combat the illness .
Meanwhile , Swedish authorities say wild ducks in southern Sweden have been found with the H5 strain of bird flu .
And Pakistani authorities today culled at least 15,000 chickens infected with the H5 strain in North West Frontier province .
Every few seconds , someone somewhere needs blood .
It could be someone who has suffered a traumatic injury , in an accident or a war , or someone who needs a transfusion to help survive an illness .
VOA 's Carol Pearson explains .
The U.S. airline industry is ramping up cost-cutting efforts to deal with skyrocketing fuel prices .
Nearly all the major U.S. carriers have announced major job cuts this year .
But airline representatives say cutting jobs is not enough .
They 're asking lawmakers to do more to reduce fuel costs that now threaten the US airline industry .
VOA 's Mil Arcega has more .
Lebanese authorities have arrested a senior employee of a Lebanese telecommunications agency on suspicion he is a spy for Israel .
The arrest at the state 's largest telecommunications company , Ogero , is the fourth of its kind this year .
Lebanese investigators reportedly intercepted messages between the worker and Israeli contacts .
The man works in the technical department of the international wing of the telecommunications company .
There was no immediate comment from Israel .
Hezbollah and other Lebanese factions have alleged that Israeli spies are entrenched throughout Lebanon 's telecommunications sector .
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah is expected to address the recent espionage findings in a speech Tuesday .
More than 50 Lebanese have been arrested since last year in a broad spying investigation linked to Israel .
The U.S. military has suffered one of its single-worst troop losses in Iraq in a roadside bomb blast near the western city of Fallujah .
In a statement Friday , the military said 10 Marines were killed and 11 wounded Thursday while they patrolled the area on foot .
The device that exploded was built from several large artillery shells .
U.S. troops have been conducting anti-insurgent operations to secure the area ahead of this month 's parliamentary election .
Another Marine was killed in Fallujah earlier this week .
The U.S. military also reported the deaths of four American soldiers .
Three were killed in a road accident near Balad today , and another died Thursday following a rocket attack in Ramadi .
U.S. and Iraqi troops are conducting joint operations in Ramadi to disrupt al-Qaida-in-Iraq terrorists operating in the Euphrates River Valley .
An Israeli human rights group says the West Bank is facing a severe water shortage largely as a result of what it calls " discriminatory " Israeli policies .
The rights group , B'Tselem accused Israel Tuesday of discrimination in the distribution of joint water resources between Jewish settlers and Palestinians .
It warned that a water shortage would have serious repercussions on the economy and health of tens of thousands of Palestinians .
The group said Israel also limits the Palestinian Authority 's ability to drill new wells .
It said the effects of several years of drought will make a water shortage even worse in coming months .
The Israeli water company , Mekorot , denied the allegations .
It said it has provided more water to the West Bank than is required under the 1993 Israel-Palestinian Oslo peace accord .
The death toll from South Asia 's monsoon floods has risen above 2000 , and torrential rains continue to pound several parts of the region .
Floods have affected an estimated 30 million people in India , Bangladesh , Nepal and Pakistan since the start of the monsoon season in June .
At least 10 people were killed Monday in northern Pakistan when heavy rains caused landslides to cover their homes .
In the Indian state of Bihar Sunday , a man died and at least four others were injured during a riot by several hundred flood victims upset by the lack of aid .
The violence came as the state government announced it was scaling back flood relief efforts and ending airdrops of supplies .
Last week , the United Nations warned of disease outbreaks in the region as rescue workers struggled to deliver food and water to millions of people displaced by floods .
Officials in Ivory Coast say at least four people have been killed by a group of armed men attacking a military police post in the country 's main city .
The attack occurred Saturday in Anyama , a suburb of Abidjan .
Reuters news agency quotes an unidentified military policemen saying the four men were all gendarmes .
The small west African nation has been plagued by violence since a 2002 civil war that virtually split the country in two .
Senegal 's President Abdoulaye Wade says the leaders of Chad and Sudan will sign peace accords next week at a summit in Dakar .
Mr. Wade told reporters in Paris Friday that Chadian President Idriss Deby and Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir will agree to stop supporting rebel groups on each other 's territory .
He said the signing will take place March 12 , before the start of a summit of Muslim leaders .
Chad has accused Sudan of backing the rebels who attacked Chad 's capital N'Djamena last month .
Chadian President Deby said earlier Friday that the fighting sparked by that attack killed 700 people .
Sudan , for its part , accuses Chad of aiding rebels in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region .
Mr. Deby and Mr. Bashir signed a peace agreement at the urging of Libya in 2006 but the agreement quickly broke down .
Palestinians in Jerusalem marched through the streets of Bethlehem Monday celebrating the Eve of Christmas , the day before the traditional birth of Jesus Christ .
Robert Berger is in Bethlehem and filed this on-scene report .
Palestinian boy and girl scouts are marched through Manger Square in Bethlehem , kicking off Christmas Eve celebrations .
They marched past the Church of the Nativity , the traditional birthplace of Jesus , playing drums and bagpipes .
It was a festive atmosphere .
Manger Square is decked out with Christmas Trees that light and colorful balloons .
On a cool , sunny day a big crowd is looking on , including some pilgrims , but mostly local Palestinians .
Christmas Eve celebrations will culminate with midnight mass at the Church of the Nativity .
Two days after a shooting killed one person at a science seminar in India 's southern city of Bangalore , a letter threatening bomb blasts has prompted security alerts in the area known for its high-tech businesses .
The letter was signed by someone calling themselves Moinuddin .
It was addressed to police , and published by local newspapers Friday .
It warns that there will be bomb blasts on New Year 's Eve at a five-star hotel and at the home of Karnataka state 's chief minister .
Police say they do not know if the threat is real , but they have stepped up security and say they are taking no chances .
Officials say Wednesday 's attack on the science conference , in which a gunman sprayed bullets indiscriminately at delegates and killed one professor , M.C.
Puri , was likely the work of militants .
Afghan officials say four Taleban guerrillas were killed when the bomb they were planting on a road went off prematurely .
The incident took place on Saturday night in restive Kandahar province in the south .
Local officials say the insurgents ' bodies were blown to pieces .
Taleban fighters have used roadside bombs against U.S. and Afghan government troops , especially in the south and east of the country .
Nearly 60 U.S. soldiers and scores of Afghan troops have been killed in the Taleban insurgency this year , the bloodiest period since 2001 when U.S.-led troops ousted Taleban rulers .
Insurgents have shot down a U.S. helicopter in Iraq , killing the two soldiers on board .
The U.S. military says the helicopter crashed late Thursday near Baqubah , north of Baghdad .
A second helicopter was damaged in the attack , but landed safely at a coalition base .
Recently , the U.S. military said some insurgents have been using increasingly sophisticated tactics .
This has led to intensified anti-insurgent operations in western Iraq and , beginning next week , in Baghdad .
A U.S.-led offensive is in its third day in the Euphrates River city of Haditha , on the road to the Syrian border .
Next week , some 40,000 Iraqi forces will cordon off Baghdad , setting up hundreds of checkpoints and conducting raids in a bid to crackdown on insurgents who have killed more than 600 people in the last month .
A young Egyptian woman died from bird flu Tuesday .
Egypt 's MENA news agency quotes the health ministry as saying the 25-year-old woman from Fayyum died in a Giza hospital south of the capital , Cairo .
Of the 44 bird flu cases confirmed in Egypt , 20 have been fatal .
Most of the fatalities have been women or girls whose families raise poultry , which brings them into daily contact with chickens or turkeys .
Close to five million Egyptian households depend on poultry for food or income .
The government says this makes it unlikely the disease can be eradicated , despite a large-scale poultry vaccination program .
The Basque separatist group ETA says it plans to continue its militant campaign against Spain to further its goals .
In a statement issued Sunday , ETA said a peace process begun by Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero offered no political solutions and sought only the defeat of the separatists .
ETA also claimed responsibility for a small explosion on July 25th as the Tour de France bicycle race went through the northern town of Navarro , a stronger blast against a civil guard barracks in the northern town of Durango in August and two other explosions that month .
ETA declared a cease-fire in March of 2006 but , called it off in June , blaming the government for a breakdown in negotiations .
President Bush will travel to Europe in February for talks with NATO and European Union officials as he starts his second term in office .
A White House spokesman says the visit February 22 will include talks with Alliance heads of state , top European Commission officials and Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt .
The spokesman called the trip an effort to strengthen cooperation in the struggle against terrorism .
In Brussels Secretary of State Colin Powell said the February trip is an attempt to rebuild ties strained by disagreements over the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
During a visit to a military medical clinic , I was sent to the lab to have blood drawn .
The technician there was friendly and mentioned that his mood improved every day because he was due to leave the service in two months .
As he applied the tourniquet on my arm , he told me that taking the blood would n't hurt much .
Then , noticing my Air Force T-shirt , he asked me what my husband did .
When I replied that he was a recruiter , the technician smiled slyly and said , " This might hurt a little more than I thought . "
Economic ministers and senior leaders open a three-day conference in Ghana 's capital of Accra Sunday on the effectiveness of donor aid to developing countries .
The Accra High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness will gauge progress since a similar meeting in Paris in 2005 .
The conference was organized by the World Bank , the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the government of Ghana .
It will look at making aid contributions more transparent and at ways of allowing countries which receive aid to channel the money through their national budgets to better manage it .
Representatives will also address the practice of donor nations providing aid based on economic requirements they expect the recipient nations to follow .
Critics say the conditions often reduce the effectiveness of the aid countries receive .
The lawyer for a group of Pakistani men who say they were kidnapped and tortured by Greek and British agents after the July bomb attacks in London have filed suit against the alleged intelligence officers .
The lawyer , Frangiskos Ragoussis , representing at least 27 men who say they were taken from homes in Greece says the suit is against agents identified in a recent story published by an Athens newspaper .
The governments of Greece , Britain and Pakistan have denied the allegations , but Greek lawmakers have called for an investigation .
The attacks on the London public transportation system killed at least 52 people .
An Iraqi appeals court has upheld the death sentence for Saddam Hussein 's former vice president , Taha Yassin Ramadan , for his role in the killing of 148 Shi'ite Muslims in 1982 .
The court confirmed Thursday that Ramadan will be hanged , which is the method of state execution in Iraq .
The government now has to set a date for the execution .
Ramadan was convicted late last year with Saddam Hussein and six others .
Ramadan initially was sentenced to life in prison .
But an appeals court ruled that sentence was too lenient and asked the lower court to consider the death penalty .
The decision to give Ramadan the maximum sentence ignored appeals from international human rights groups .
Saddam Hussein was hanged in December , and two of his co-defendants were executed in January .
Hamas officials say Egyptian forces have closed the breach in the border between the Gaza Strip and Egypt , nearly two weeks after militants blew up a section of the border wall .
Officials said Sunday that troops are allowing Gazans and Egyptians to cross the border to return to their homes , but are preventing any new cross-border traffic .
Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians have streamed across the Egyptian border since Hamas militants destroyed a barrier wall on January 23 , shattering an Israeli blockade .
Egyptian forces placed metal barriers across several breaches in the Rafah border crossing Friday .
But militants used bulldozers to tear down the barriers , and hundreds of people demonstrated to demand the border remain open .
Pope Benedict has called on wealthy nations to set aside their " narrow interests " to work toward a trade deal that would help poorer countries .
The pope Thursday said he is confident that a sense of responsibility and solidarity with disadvantaged nations will prevail at upcoming world trade talks .
Pope Benedict noted that rural areas and independent farmers suffer greatly because they do not have access to the global marketplace .
The pope made the comments to a delegation from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization .
The World Trade Organization is set to meet in Hong Kong next month to discuss reaching a global trade deal .
Past efforts have been stymied largely because of disputes over how much developed countries are willing to cut agricultural trade barriers .
Bahrain 's foreign minister is calling for Arab countries to form a regional group that includes rivals Iran and Israel .
Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al Khalifa says the organization could get under way even if not all members recognize each other .
Of the Arab states , only Egypt and Jordan recognize Israel .
Non-Arab Iran is particularly opposed to the Jewish state , with its president vowing to see it end .
In an interview in Wednesday 's al-Hayat pan-Arab newspaper , Sheik Khalid says Turkey should also be included in the Middle East grouping .
He argues such a forum is the only way to resolve the region 's problems .
The Bahrainian diplomat notes the countries are all able to sit together in the United Nations .
The tiny Gulf kingdom , whose Shi'ite majority is ruled by a Sunni minority , has close ties with the United States and hosts the U.S. Navy 's Fifth Fleet .
The Bahamas is one of the wealthiest Caribbean countries with an economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking .
Tourism together with tourism-driven construction and manufacturing accounts for approximately 60 % of GDP and directly or indirectly employs half of the archipelago 's labor force .
Prior to 2006 , a steady growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels , resorts , and residences led to solid GDP growth but since then tourism receipts have begun to drop off .
The global recession in 2009 took a sizeable toll on the Bahamas , resulting in a contraction in GDP and a widening budget deficit .
The decline continued in 2010 as tourism from the US and sector investment lagged .
Financial services constitute the second-most important sector of the Bahamian economy and , when combined with business services , account for about 36 % of GDP .
However , the financial sector currently is smaller than it has been in the past because of the enactment of new and stricter financial regulations in 2000 that caused many international businesses to relocate elsewhere .
Manufacturing and agriculture combined contribute approximately a tenth of GDP and show little growth , despite government incentives aimed at those sectors .
Overall growth prospects in the short run rest heavily on the fortunes of the tourism sector .
Indonesia 's attorney general says three Islamic militants have until the end of this month to appeal their death sentences in the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people .
Attorney General Abdul Rahman Saleh says it is fair to give the bombers until the end of December .
But , he said if they do not file an appeal , the execution process will move forward .
Lawyers for the three men have been saying for months that they will file for a case review , but have yet to do so .
If they do file , Indonesian law requires that they produce fresh evidence .
The al-Qaida-linked extremist network Jemaah Islamiyah has been blamed for the 2002 Bali bombings and other attacks in Indonesia .
European Union justice and interior ministers have agreed on a counter-terrorism strategy aimed at preventing recruitment by terrorist groups .
EU top anti-terror official Gijs de Vries says Europe faces a dual threat - from outsiders coming to Europe and from people who live on the continent .
The new strategy 's objectives include protecting potential targets , pursuing and investigating suspects , and improving EU capability to respond to terrorist attacks .
The plan covers everything from Internet sites promoting extremist Islamic ideas to fostering better community relations with Muslim groups .
It also calls for better police cooperation and stepped-up security at ports of entry .
Thursday 's agreement comes as Belgian investigators charged five people with involvement in a network that sent volunteers to Iraq .
The volunteers included a young Belgian woman , Muriel Degauque , who blew herself up in a failed attack on U.S. troops near Baghdad last month .
Iran 's parliament has ordered the resumption of nuclear processing activities .
But Iranian officials say implementation of the order will be delayed to give one last chance to talks with the European Union .
EU foreign ministers and Iran are expected to meet within the coming days .
Iran had previously agreed to suspend its nuclear processing program to avoid sanctions from the United Nations .
Iran says it wants to use the processed nuclear material to produce electricity .
But the EU and the United States worry that Iran could be developing nuclear weapons .
France , Britain , and Germany want Tehran to abandon its enrichment activities in exchange for economic aid and backing for Iran 's efforts to join mainstream international organizations .
North Korea is denying suggestions it may be helping Syria develop a nuclear weapons facility .
The North Korean Foreign Ministry Tuesday dismissed U.S. media reports that Pyongyang has secretly offered nuclear cooperation to Syria .
The Washington Post newspaper reported last week that U.S. intelligence has acquired information , including satellite photos , indicating North Korea may be cooperating with Syria on some sort of nuclear facility .
The information is said to have been provided mostly by Israel .
North Korea tested a nuclear weapon last year , but has since cooperated in six-nation talks aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program .
China announced this week that six-party talks scheduled for Wednesday have been postponed .
It did not give a reason for the change .
A North Korean Foreign Ministry delegation arrived in Beijing Tuesday for talks with government officials .
It is unclear whether the visit is aimed at sorting out a date for the nuclear negotiations .
Pakistani police have arrested two suspected Islamic militants in connection with last week 's deadly suicide attack on a Shi'ite mosque in Karachi that killed five people , including two attackers .
Karachi 's senior police official Fayyaz Khan says authorities captured the pair during a pre-dawn raid on a hide-out in the city 's eastern district .
He says police also recovered explosives , two grenades and a pistol during the raid .
The men belong to an outlawed militant group , Lashkar-e-Jhangvi , which has links with Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terror network .
The May 30 mosque attack sparked riots in Karachi , where an angry mob torched a crowded U.S. fast-food outlet , killing six employees .
The rioters also attacked a hospital and two gas stations , and bombed buses and cars .
The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has concluded that Cuban leader Fidel Castro has Parkinson 's disease , a debilitating condition that affects a person 's physical coordination .
Officials in Washington have confirmed a report about the CIA assessment published in the Miami Herald newspaper on Wednesday .
The officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , say the assessment was based on a variety of material , including Mr. Castro 's public appearances .
Cuban officials have declined to comment on the reports .
According to the Herald , the CIA has warned U.S. policymakers to be ready for trouble in Cuba as the 79-year-old leader 's health declines .
But the Reuters news agency quotes a State Department official as saying Washington does not expect Mr. Castro to lose his grip on Cuba .
Mr. Castro 's communist government has ruled Cuba since 1959 .
Mr. Castro has appointed his 74-year-old brother Raul to be his successor .
Bolivia 's President Evo Morales says he wants to raise natural gas prices by nearly 60 percent for exports to Brazil and Argentina , which rely heavily on Bolivian gas .
Mr. Morales says the price increase will bring in an extra $ 600 million to the Bolivian government .
His remarks come one week after he ordered soldiers to production facilities to forcibly nationalize Bolivia 's energy sector .
In Brazil Monday , President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva reassured Brazilians that Bolivia 's nationalization will not result in gas shortages in his country .
He also said Brazil will not retaliate against Bolivia , but instead will negotiate with its neighbor to reach an agreement on contracts and prices .
After a summit last Thursday , Mr. Morales and the leaders of Argentina , Brazil and Venezuela issued a statement affirming Bolivia 's " sovereign right " to control its natural resources .
Brazil 's foreign minister has said he has seen indications the United States wants to block a sale of Brazilian-made military aircraft to Venezuela .
Foreign Minister Celso Amorim told reporters Wednesday he intends to discuss the matter with U.S. officials and try to convince them not to prevent the sale .
He says he believes Venezuela is a threat to no one and that disagreements over internal policies should not restrict transfers of technology .
Mr. Amorim 's comments came after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Tuesday alleged Washington wanted to veto his deal with Brazilian aircraft-maker Embraer because the planes use U.S. technology .
Reuters news service quotes a U.S. State Department spokesman who declined to comment on the veto allegation , but said the U.S. had let Brazil know it had concerns about Venezuela 's arms acquisitions .
Israeli forces killed three Palestinians and wounded several others Monday in operations against militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
In one incident , Israel 's military says troops shot dead two armed Palestinians who were trying to place explosives near the border fence separating Gaza from Israel .
Earlier , an Israeli air strike killed a Hamas militant and wounded several other people in the northern town of Beit Hanoun .
The Israeli military says the aircraft hit a group of militants who had just fired mortars into southern Israel .
Israel has stepped up air strikes and ground raids in Gaza since Hamas seized control of the territory in June .
John decided life would be much easier if he had a clone .
So he had one made and sent him to work in his place while he stayed home and relaxed .
Soon this backfired when the clone came home and said he 'd been fired for making sexual comments to the women in the office .
John decided , he had to get rid of his clone before things got any worse .
John took his clone to the top of a tall building and pushed him off .
Unfortunately , someone saw John and he was arrested and convicted for making an obscene clone fall .
Kidnappers of four Western peace activists in Iraq have threatened to kill them unless all Iraqi prisoners are released from U.S. and Iraqi prisons .
The kidnappers issued the threat in a videotape broadcast Saturday by the Arab television station al-Jazeera .
The videotape , dated January 21 , apparently shows the two Canadians , one Briton and one American standing against a wall .
The four disappeared on November 26 .
Al-Jazeera said the kidnappers issued a statement with the tape saying it was the " last chance " for U.S. and Iraqi authorities to save the hostages .
The latest development comes a day after al-Jazeera broadcast a video of two Germans kidnapped last Tuesday .
In Iraq Saturday , authorities say a policeman was killed and another wounded in a roadside bomb attack in the western city of Fallujah .
Iraqi officials say four prisoners with links to al-Qaida have escaped from a Baghdad detention center .
Officials say the four broke out of a U.S.-controlled section of Karkh Prison , formerly called Camp Cropper , Wednesday night .
It is not clear how they managed to escape .
U.S. officials confirmed the escape , saying the military is working with Iraqi forces to investigate the incident and recapture the individuals involved .
In July , the U.S. military handed over control of the Camp Cropper detention center to Iraqi authorities .
The facility houses about 1,500 detainees , but about 200 , including those who escaped , remained in a U.S.-controlled section of the prison .
A United Nations investigation team says a powerful truck bomb caused the explosion that killed former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
A German prosecutor , Detlev Mehlis , leading the U.N. team told a news conference in Beirut , Friday the blast occurred above ground .
Some people believed the explosives were buried under the street , suggesting officials were involved in the plot to kill the former prime minister .
Mr. Hariri and 20 others were killed when his motorcade was blown up on February 14 in downtown Beirut .
His assassination was the catalyst for mass anti-Syrian protests and intensified international pressure on Damascus to withdraw its army from Lebanon .
Chinese state-run media say a third of China 's vast land mass has been hurt by acid rain caused by the emissions of factories and power plants .
The official Xinhua news agency cites a parliamentary pollution report released Saturday , which says emissions of sulphur dioxide , the chemical that causes acid rain , are two times higher than safe levels .
Sheng Huaren , the vice chairman of the parliamentary standing committee , says China 's factories discharged some 25 million tons of sulphur dioxide last year , up 27 percent from 2000 .
He says the resulting acid rain is threatening China 's soil and food safety .
China is struggling to balance its booming industrial growth with environmental protection .
A series of chemical spills has cut off drinking water to millions of people over the past couple years , and air pollution is a constant problem in many cities .
Around 2,000 Serbian nationalists marched through the streets of the ethnically-divided Kosovo town of Mitrovica Saturday , on the sixth day of protests against Kosovo 's independence .
The city has been torn by protests since Kosovo declared independence last week .
Most Serbs consider the seceded territory a historic heart of Serbia .
Meanwhile , the European Union 's special representative in Kosovo has confirmed the evacuation of his personnel from Mitrovica .
Peter Feith , the head of the EU 's peacekeeping mission in Kosovo , said Saturday that the pull-out was temporary .
Friday , Serbian President Boris Tadic called for an end to violence after rioters opposed to Kosovo 's declaration of independence Thursday attacked the U.S. and other embassies in Belgrade .
The demonstrators were angered by U.S. support for Kosovo 's independence declaration .
Venezuela and Cuba have asked a United Nations committee to investigate the release on bail of a Cuban militant from a U.S. prison .
The governments in Caracas and Havana sent a letter Wednesday to the U.N. 's Counter-Terrorism Committee , urging it to examine the release of Luis Posada Carriles .
Venezuela and Cuba accuse the U.S. of " flagrantly violating " U.N. Security Council resolutions on counter-terrorism by releasing him .
Venezuela convicted the former U.S. intelligence operative of plotting the 1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner that killed 73 people .
Posada Carriles denies the charge .
He escaped a Venezuelan prison in 1985 .
Posada Carriles has been in U.S. custody since 2005 for alleged immigration offenses .
A U.S. court released him on bail last week ahead of his trial on May 11 .
Posada Carriles was born in Cuba and is a naturalized Venezuelan citizen .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United States is doing everything possible to help countries around the world locate any of their citizens missing in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina .
In a statement released Tuesday , Ms. Rice said Ambassador Joe Sullivan has established an operations center in Baton Rouge , Louisiana .
She said foreigners impacted by the hurricane should contact their consulates or embassies in Washington , or other facilities located throughout the country .
Ms. Rice also said both the American and International Red Cross agencies have established websites to help people get reunited as quickly as possible .
There were about 35 foreign consulates in New Orleans , mostly from Latin America and Europe , before floodwaters from Katrina devastated the entire U.S. city .
All of them have suspended operations or moved elsewhere .
The French consulate has set up a temporary office in the city of Lafayette .
Oil prices continued to break new records this week , trading briefly above $ 126 per barrel on Monday .
American consumers fear prices will go even higher as the summer driving season gets underway .
Some say they are desperate and many are calling on U.S. lawmakers to do something - fast .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Representatives from Iraq 's main Shi'ite and Kurdish political factions are meeting to negotiate a final agreement on a new governing coalition .
News reports say Shi'ites are seeking Kurdish support for a power-sharing deal that also addresses Kurdish claims to oil-rich northern areas .
Details could not be confirmed .
The majority Shi'ite Muslim alliance wants Ibrahim al-Jaafari as prime minister .
Kurdish officials have lobbied for a top role for their leader , Jalal Talabani .
Because no party holds a two-thirds majority in parliament , lawmakers must form a coalition to approve a new government .
Officials say even if they do not agree , parliament will convene March 16th - the 17th anniversary of Saddam Hussein 's notorious chemical weapons attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja .
A published report says donors plan to withhold $ 375 million in aid from Ethiopia in light of the government 's response to recent opposition-led protests .
The Financial Times newspaper quotes the World Bank 's director in Ethiopia Ishac Diwan as saying the World Bank , the European Union , Britain and other donors will consider disbursing funds in other ways to address the country 's massive poverty .
At least 46 people were killed and thousands detained during clashes between security forces and opposition protesters last month .
The violence erupted during anti-government protests against alleged fraud in last May 's parliamentary elections won by Ethiopia 's ruling party .
Wednesday , an Ethiopian judge ordered a group of 131 opposition leaders , journalists and others detained during the protests to remain in custody after most boycotted a bail hearing .
Those detainees have been charged with treason and genocide .
Named after Captain COOK , who sighted them in 1770 , the islands became a British protectorate in 1888 .
By 1900 , administrative control was transferred to New Zealand ; in 1965 , residents chose self-government in free association with New Zealand .
The emigration of skilled workers to New Zealand and government deficits are continuing problems .
First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century , the islands served as an international whaling base during the 17th and 18th centuries .
Norway 's sovereignty was recognized in 1920 ; five years later it officially took over the territory .
Iraqi police in the city of Samarra say an explosion has damaged an ancient Islamic monument .
Police say insurgents caused an explosion Friday in the top section of the six-story Malwiya mosque tower , leaving a jagged hole and debris on the upper part of the structure .
The tower is very important in Islamic architecture .
It is one of only three spiral minarets in the world and was built of brick and clay during the Abbassid dynasty in the 9th century .
In other news , the police chief , Colonel Hatem Rashid Mohammad in Balad Ruz , northeast of Baghdad , was ambushed and killed along with another police officer .
And , Sunni Muslim clerics issued a religious edict ( fatwa ) encouraging Iraqis to join the country 's police and army .
Stronger Iraqi forces could help quell the Sunni-led insurgency .
The economy of Sint Maarten centers around tourism with nearly four-fifths of the labor force engaged in this sector .
Over one million visitors come to the island each year - 1.3 million in 2008 - with most arriving through the Princess Juliana International Airport .
Cruise ships and yachts also call on Sint Maarten 's numerous ports and harbors .
No significant agriculture and limited local fishing means that almost all food must be imported .
Energy resources and manufactured goods are also imported .
Sint Maarten had the highest per capita income among the five islands that formerly comprised the Netherlands Antilles .
View flash slideshow narrated by Sgt. Roche
US Army Sergeant Joe Roche served in Baghdad for 15 months with the 16th Engineer Battalion of the 1st Armored Division .
His unit worked on helping rebuild Iraq 's infrastructure , including schools and sewage systems , while fighting insurgents and terrorists .
His unit also helped train new Iraqi soldiers .
The following are pictures he took during his stay in Iraq .
Another suicide car bomber has struck at an entrance to Baghdad 's heavily guarded Green Zone , a day after nine Iraqis were killed in an attack at the same checkpoint .
Hospital officials say at least two people were killed in Tuesday 's attack , and a dozen others were wounded .
Meanwhile , to the north , in Mosul , the U.S. military says six bodies were found Tuesday , all killed execution-style with a bullet to the head .
Monday , hospital officials said they had received the bodies of eight other men , all killed in the same way .
And in Fallujah , more clashes have been reported in the city that was the target of last month 's massive U.S.-led offensive against insurgents .
Chinese state media says Beijing has established a company to manufacture passenger jumbo jets .
The Xinhua news agency says the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China was established in Shanghai Sunday .
Xinhua said the company will be responsible for researching , developing , manufacturing and marketing large passenger aircraft .
The news agency said the central government and China 's two largest aircraft manufacturing and servicing companies are among the major shareholders .
The company was launched with capital of $ 2.7 billion .
Three Sunni Arab parties in Iraq have announced they are forming a coalition ahead of December 's parliamentary election for a permanent government .
The announcement Wednesday , from the Iraqi Peoples Gathering , the Iraqi Islamic Party and the Iraqi National Dialogue comes a day after referendum results showed 78 percent of Iraqis approved the new constitution .
The document passed despite stiff opposition from Sunni Arabs .
In other developments , an Internet statement attributed to al-Qaida in Iraq claimed it had kidnapped two employees from the Moroccan embassy in Baghdad .
The Moroccan news agency reports that Rabat has had no news about the missing employees since Thursday and has sent a team to Jordan to coordinate efforts to win their release .
Meanwhile , attacks in Baghdad and Ramadi killed three Iraqis .
An American soldier also died in a vehicle accident in southern Iraq .
China says the death toll from an explosion in a northeastern coal mine has risen to 19 , with the confirmation of 18 more deaths .
The official Xinhua news agency said Monday that 18 miners missing since Saturday have been found dead .
Xinhua says the explosion occurred Saturday evening .
One miner was found dead Sunday .
The news agency says an initial investigation found that the operators of the mine illegally resumed production after their license had been revoked .
China 's mines are among the most dangerous in the world , with safety standards often ignored as mine operators push production amid soaring demand for coal .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says about 20 suspected Taleban insurgents and one Afghan policeman were killed in a fierce firefight in southeastern Zabul province .
A military statement issued Wednesday said six American soldiers and five Afghan policemen were wounded in Tuesday 's fighting that involved U.S. warplanes , helicopters as well as ground troops .
It said six insurgents were detained after the clash , described as one of the deadliest in recent weeks .
The military says the battle erupted after gunmen fired on U.S. troops and Afghan police investigating a reported beating of a villager .
Taleban insurgents have stepped up attacks against Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops as harsh winter weather conditions have improved .
Established in 1891 , the British protectorate of Nyasaland became the independent nation of Malawi in 1964 .
After three decades of one-party rule under President Hastings Kamuzu BANDA the country held multiparty elections in 1994 , under a provisional constitution that came into full effect the following year .
Current President Bingu wa MUTHARIKA , elected in May 2004 after a failed attempt by the previous president to amend the constitution to permit another term , struggled to assert his authority against his predecessor and subsequently started his own party , the Democratic Progressive Party ( DPP ) in 2005 .
As president , MUTHARIKA has overseen some economic improvement .
Population growth , increasing pressure on agricultural lands , corruption , and the spread of HIV / AIDS pose major problems for Malawi .
MUTHARIKA was reelected to a second term in May 2009 .
The Sudanese government has arrested at least 14 military and security officials for alleged crimes in Darfur - the first such arrests in the conflict there .
Sudan 's Justice Minister , Ali Mohamed Osman Yassin , said Monday the detainees are accused of crimes that include rape and murder .
The announcement comes as the U.N. Security Council is expected to vote this week on a French proposal to send Darfur suspects to the International Criminal Court .
Sudan is opposed to the draft , saying its courts are competent to prosecute those guilty of crimes .
The United Nations says the two year conflict in Darfur between black rebels and mostly government-backed Arab militias has killed tens of thousands of people and displaced nearly two million people .
The United States calls the violence genocide .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair launches a new bid to advance the Middle East peace process later Tuesday , with visits to Israel and the Palestinian territories .
Mr. Blair , who has made reviving the Middle East peace process a priority , is expected to meet with his Israeli counterpart , Ariel Sharon , before heading to the West Bank for talks with Palestinian leaders .
International diplomacy aimed at bringing Israel and the Palestinians together for peace talks have intensified since the death of Yasser Arafat last month .
Earlier Tuesday , the British leader paid a surprise visit to Iraq , meeting with interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi in Baghdad and visiting British troops in the southern city of Basra .
It was Mr. Blair 's first visit to Baghdad .
He has twice previously visited British troops stationed around Basra .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the West must continue efforts to defeat Taleban insurgents and support democracy in Afghanistan .
In comments Tuesday in Canada , Rice recalled how Afghanistan became a haven for terrorists after the United States withdrew support for the country after Soviet forces withdrew in 1989 .
She warned against leaving Afghanistan too early again .
Rice made the comments during a news conference in Nova Scotia with Canadian Foreign Minister Peter MacKay .
She thanked Canada for its contributions to the NATO force in Afghanistan .
Canada has about 2,200 troops in the country .
More than 20 Canadian troops have died in Afghanistan .
Canadian lawmakers have faced calls to end the country 's involvement in the war .
Teams that have qualified for the upcoming World Cup football finals next month in Germany continue to practice in friendly international games .
Croatia and visiting Iran played to a 2-2 draw Sunday .
Host Ukraine scored a 4-0 win over Costa Rica .
Ukraine is appearing in its first World Cup while Costa Rica will face host Germany in the World Cup opener on June 9 in Munich .
Playing Sunday in Hamburg , Estonia and Turkey played to a 1-1 draw .
In Madrid , Macedonia was a 2-1 winner over Ecuador .
Mali beat Morocco , 1-0 , in a game played in Paris .
The United States hosts Latvia in a game later Sunday as part of a three-match friendly warmup before the U.S. team heads to Germany .
A senior Thai minister says the United States has neither operated a secret jail in Thailand for terror suspects nor used the country as a transfer point for such suspects .
U.S.-based ABC News and The Washington Post have reported that secret U.S. Central Intelligence Agency jails have existed since March 2002 when the first was created in Thailand .
ABC said Tuesday the Thai jail was established following the capture in Pakistan of Abu Zabayda , who was sent to a vacant warehouse on an air base in Thailand .
Thailand 's Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Minister Chitchai Wannasathit Wednesday denied the reports .
He said no prisoner was brought to Thailand from Pakistan in 2002 .
A rights group said Saturday it has received reports that Burma 's army is set to attack a refugee camp near the border with Thailand .
Christian Solidarity Worldwide said more than 1,200 villagers at the Ler Per Her camp just inside Burma 's Karen State have fled across the border into Thailand to avoid possible fighting .
The group said more than 1,000 Burmese government troops and the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army - a pro-government militia - are approaching the area and plan to attack the camp Sunday .
The organization did not reveal the source of the reports .
CSW said it has visited the camp many times , including once earlier this year .
CSW says it received evidence from the camp 's residents about the military government 's policies , which the group says include forced labor , rape , torture , destruction of villages and the use of human minesweepers .
North Korean media say a top official is planning to visit Syria , heightening suspicions that the two countries are cooperating on a secret nuclear program .
In a brief statement Saturday , the official North Korean Central News Agency said the speaker of North Korea 's parliament , Choe Thae Bok , has left for a trip that will take him to Italy and Syria .
The report gave no other details .
In September , U.S. media reports said Pyongyang has secretly offered nuclear cooperation to Syria , and that the two nations are working on some sort of nuclear facility .
Both have denied the allegations .
North Korea conducted a nuclear weapons test last year , but has since been compliant in six-nation talks aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program .
An official in southern Nigeria says two recently kidnapped Philippine oil workers have been freed .
The government spokesman , Emmanuel Okah , in Rivers State said the two workers abducted Tuesday from the troubled Niger Delta region were released Sunday .
He did not say if negotiators paid a ransom , which is frequently demanded by kidnappers in the oil-rich region .
The two workers are employees of the Norway-based oil services company Petroleum Geo-Services .
They were abducted by armed men from an oil rig near the city of Port Harcourt .
Militants targeting Nigeria 's oil industry have kidnapped some 31 foreign workers since January .
All have been released unharmed .
The militants are demanding a greater share of the region 's oil wealth .
Abu Farraj al-Libbi , a top al-Qaida operative and close associate of Osama bin Laden who is wanted for two attempts to assassinate Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf , has been arrested in Pakistan .
Pakistani Information Minister Shiekh Rashid Ahmed confirmed the arrest of Abu Farraj al-Libbi .
" We arrested [ him ] yesterday with four other people , " said Shiekh Rashid Ahmed .
The Libyan native , considered third in charge of al-Qaida , had a $ 1 million bounty on his head .
He is one of the group 's top operational commanders , and is accused of planning two unsuccessful bomb attacks against Pakistan 's president , Pervez Musharraf , in 2003 .
Mr. Rashid would not comment on where the suspect was arrested , but he was thought to have been hiding in Pakistan 's northern tribal areas .
The Netherlands rallied to defeat China , 2-1 , to reach the main draw of the eight-nation Hopman Cup mixed team tennis tournament in Perth , Australia .
Peng Shuai , ranked 36th , gave China a 1-0 lead when she beat 16-year-old Michaella Krajicek in the women 's singles match , 6-3 , 4-6 , 6-3 .
Peter Wessels got the Dutch even by winning his singles match over Sun Peng , 6-2 , 6-2 .
Then Wessels and Krajicek combined to win the mixed doubles match over Peng and Sun , 6-4 , 6-4 .
With the victory , the Dutch will join Australia , Argentina and Germany in Group A .
Germany , with Anna-Lena Groenefeld and Nicolas Kiefer plays on Saturday against the Australian team of Samantha Stosur and Wayne Arthurs .
Group B features the United States , Russia , Sweden and Serbia and Montenegro .
The Americans are represented by Lisa Raymond and Taylor Dent .
An estimated 8,000 landless activists converged on Brazil 's capital this week to demand land reform .
The demonstrators surrounded the central bank in Brasilia Thursday , carrying a list of demands for delivery to a bank official .
The Reuters news agency quoted one activist as saying there could be another fight over the issue in five to six months unless more public money is provided to speed up land reform .
The protest took place just days after hooded gunmen killed five land reform activists on a farm in the southeastern state of Minas Gerais .
Brazil has one of the greatest disparities in land ownership in the world , with a small number of wealthy ranchers owning the vast majority of the land .
A defunct Russian communications satellite has smashed into a U.S. satellite in orbit , creating a possible risk to the International Space Station .
U.S. officials say this is the first time two whole satellites ever crashed into each other in space .
They collided Tuesday about 780 kilometers above Siberia , creating a huge explosion with many pieces of debris .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , said the floating satellite parts create a small risk to the International Space Station , which flies at a lower orbit than where the collision took place .
But NASA says it will be weeks before the full magnitude of the collision is known .
Scientists say there are thousands of pieces of space junk orbiting the Earth , including old satellites and burned-out rocket boosters .
A Rwandan businessman has been found guilty for his role in destroying a church where 2,000 Tutsis had sought shelter during Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda on Monday sentenced Gaspard Kanyarukiga to 30 years in prison .
It was not immediately clear if he will appeal .
Prosecutors argued during his trial that Kanyarukiga ordered the bulldozing of the church with the Tutsis inside .
Kanyarukiga is the second person to be sentenced by the court in connection with the massacre at Nyange church .
The church 's priest was sentenced to life in prison in 2008 .
Hutu extremists killed an estimated 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus during the genocide .
The U.N. tribunal , operating out of the Tanzanian town of Arusha , was set up to prosecute those most responsible for organizing the killings .
Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo says a law approved by parliament to allow an opposition leader to run for president must be put to a referendum , angering rebels who say he is wrecking peace efforts .
The rebels say the reform should be enacted into law immediately .
The law to allow opposition leaders to run for president has been a key demand among those who want former prime minister and opposition leader Alassane Ouattara to make a bid for the presidency .
It is designed to end a ban on Ivorians with foreign parents from running as presidential candidates .
Rescuers in Baghdad have pulled more bodies from the rubble of a house that was destroyed in an apparent suicide attack Christmas Eve , raising the death toll to nine people .
There are unconfirmed reports that the dead were all members of the same family .
Meanwhile , the wounded were being treated at Baghdad hospitals .
Many of them suffered severe burns in the gas tanker explosion .
Friday 's attack further unnerved Christians living in the capital , as many of them did not venture out to subdued Christmas services this Saturday morning .
In the Shi'ite holy city of Najaf , the governor said police have arrested a group of men suspected of having organized Sunday 's attack in Najaf that killed 52 pilgrims .
He said an announcement would be made in Baghdad next week .
Chinese organizers have canceled the international portion of the Beijing Paralympic torch relay , and shortened the domestic legs .
Wednesday 's announcement comes after international legs of the Olympic torch relay were plagued by violent protests against China 's Tibet policy .
However , organizers say the Paralympic relay route was changed because the government is focusing on relief work following a deadly earthquake on May 12 .
It killed 70,000 people and left millions displaced in Sichuan province .
The first-ever international Paralympic torch relay had been scheduled to visit upcoming Olympic host cities London , England , Vancouver , Canada and Sochi , Russia as well as Hong Kong before the September sixth to 17th Paralympics .
Four Chinese cities , Chengdu , Chongqing , Urumqi and Tianjin , were also removed from the original 16-stop schedule for the domestic relay .
South Korea says North Korea has fired three short-range missiles off its west coast .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency said Saturday that the missiles were fired Friday into the Yellow Sea off Jeungsan County , about 40 kilometers west of the North Korean capital of Pyongyang .
Quoting a government source , Yonhap said the testing was part of a military training exercise involving ship-to-ship missiles with a range of 46 kilometers .
The North 's navy fired three ship-to-ship missiles on March 28th in what was then described by the South Korean government as part of a regular military exercise in the waters off the peninsula 's west coast .
A White House spokesman , Gordon Johndroe , described the tests in March as " not constructive , " and urged North Korea to instead focus on dismantling its nuclear facilities .
Brazil has successfully launched its first rocket into space .
The rocket was launched from the Alcantara base in northern Brazil to conduct experiments just outside Earth 's atmosphere .
The launch Saturday came 14 months after a deadly rocket explosion at the Altcantara base killed 21 space agency employees , including key technicians .
The launch pad explosion also damaged the reputation of Brazil 's space program and set back plans to sell up to 15 of its VSV-30 rockets .
Brazil 's Alcantara base is considered an excellent launch site because of its proximity to the equator , where the Earth moves the fastest . .
Scientists say launching a rocket at this point gives it an extra boost and allows it to carry less fuel .
Dozens of Palestinian gunmen took over an office of the Palestinian elections commission near Jerusalem Tuesday , to press for changes in a slate of ruling party candidates for parliament .
The gunmen , from the militant al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , were demanding that the ruling Fatah party slate for January 25 elections include more representatives from neighboring East Jerusalem .
Police were reported negotiating with the gunmen Tuesday afternoon .
In another sign of growing lawlessness in the Palestinian territories , al-Aqsa gunmen Tuesday briefly seized three government buildings in the northern Gaza Strip , to demand jobs with the Palestinian Authority .
Internal unrest has been growing in Gaza since Israel ended its 38-year occupation of the territory earlier this year .
The U.S. military says coalition forces killed about 40 Taleban fighters Friday in an attack on an insurgent camp in southern Afghanistan .
A military spokesman , Lieutenant Colonel Paul Fitzpatrick , said Saturday that the coalition forces waited until about 50 rebels entered the camp for a meeting before attacking .
The spokesman said the compound , in eastern Uruzgan province , was severely damaged and it was anticipated that most of those present were killed .
Another U.S. statement said two coalition troops were killed Friday , when their vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb in eastern Kunar province , bordering Pakistan .
The military did not give the nationalities of the soldiers killed .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan launched an offensive Wednesday involving about 10,000 Afghan and coalition troops .
Xerox Corp. has told employees in its Crum & Forster personal insurance operations that it is laying off about 300 people , or 25 % of the staff .
A spokeswoman for Crum & Forster said employees were told early this week that numerous staff functions for the personal insurance lines were going to be centralized as a cost-cutting move .
She said the move would result in a after-tax charge of less than $ 4 million to be spread over the next three quarters .
By comparison , for the first nine months , Xerox earned $ 492 million , or $ 4.55 a share , on revenue of $ 12.97 billion .
Earnings at Xerox 's financial-services operations actually rose slightly , but that was largely because capital gains at Crum & Forster offset Hurricane Hugo payments and the reserves set up to cover future payments .
Property / casualty insurance has been a tough business in recent quarters , as pricing has been cutthroat and natural disasters such as Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake have resulted in huge payments .
The presidents of Russia and Syria have held talks at the Kremlin amid controversy over a reported weapons sale between their nations .
Russia 's Vladimir Putin and Bashar al-Assad of Syria signed bilateral agreements at Tuesday 's meeting .
Russia also agreed to write-off about $ 10 billion of Syria 's more than $ 13 billion debt to Moscow .
The leaders stressed the importance of building strong relations .
Mr. al-Assad also said he would welcome an increased Russian role in the Middle East .
Earlier , the Syrian leader told university students his country has the right to purchase anti-aircraft missiles for defense .
Reports have said Russia planned to sell shoulder-fired SA-18 missiles and larger Iskander-E missiles to Syria - prompting protests from Israel .
The Iskander-E would be capable of hitting most of Israel .
The Israelis fear the SA-18 could fall into the hands of Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
A South Korean official says Seoul has repatriated three North Korean fishermen rescued from a boat drifting in South Korean waters .
Unification Ministry spokesman Chun Hae-sung told reporters that the fishermen were sent back to the North at the border village of Panmunjom on Friday .
He said the three were rescued last month by a South Korean navy vessel near the disputed western sea border with North Korea .
Chun said the fisherman told investigators they wanted to go back to their homeland .
The two Koreas are still technically at war after the Korean War ended in 1953 with a truce .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton says it will be up to her daughter Chelsea whether to accept a Kenyan man 's offer of livestock in return for Chelsea 's hand in marriage .
The Kenyan man 's offer of 40 goats and 20 cows was first made in 2000 , in a letter to Secretary Clinton 's husband , then-president Bill Clinton .
At a town hall meeting in Nairobi Thursday , the mediator asked for a fresh response to the proposal .
Clinton said her daughter is " very independent , " but added that she will pass along what she called the " very kind offer . "
Secretary Clinton is on an 11-day , seven-nation tour of Africa .
Diplomats say the United States and the European Union are ready to offer Iran a compromise deal that would permit the Tehran government to carry out one of the early stages of making nuclear fuel , but all actual uranium enrichment would take place in Russia .
Enriched uranium can be used to generate energy or to make nuclear weapons .
Iran says it wants to process its own nuclear fuel to produce electricity .
But The United States and Europe accuse Tehran of seeking highly enriched weapons-grade material .
Diplomats say moving the enrichment process to Russia would allow international oversight of the process .
Iran has rejected international demands to renounce its right to enrichment , and restarted its conversion process earlier this year .
The International Atomic Energy Agency ruled Tehran is not in compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty .
The IAEA board meets later this month ( November 24 ) to consider further action .
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of becoming his servant .
Each undertook his proper duty in accordance with his own nature and powers .
The Fox discovered and pointed out the prey ; the Lion sprang on it and seized it .
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion 's share , and said that he would no longer find out the prey , but would capture it on his own account .
The next day he attempted to snatch a lamb from the fold , but he himself fell prey to the huntsmen and hounds .
Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari toured the embattled city of Tal Afar Monday , where Iraqi forces backed by U.S. troops are trying to drive insurgents from their northern stronghold .
The prime minister 's office confirmed the visit , which came despite insurgent threats to counter-attack coalition forces in the city with chemical weapons .
Some insurgent positions were found deserted Sunday , as 5,000 Iraqi soldiers and 3,500 U.S. armored cavalry troops pushed into the near-empty city .
U.S. authorities say they suspect many insurgents escaped the fighting through a network of tunnels found beneath the city on Sunday .
In Baghdad today , the Iraqi Defense Ministry said 157 insurgents have been killed since Sunday .
The U.S. military reported 141 insurgent fatalities in the previous 24 hours .
Reuters news agency quotes a Defense Ministry spokesman as saying the operation should be completed by Thursday .
Bisphenol A is a chemical used in making plastic bottles and most other plastic products we use every day .
Until now , the only indication that bisphenol A , or BPA , might be harmful came from studies using laboratory animals .
Now , a study involving humans indicates exposure to the chemical may increase the risk of developing heart disease , diabetes and liver problems .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
Authorities in Nepal say one policeman has been killed and four wounded by a bomb that exploded as they were clearing a roadblock set by suspected Maoist rebels .
Authorities say the blast struck Monday on the Mahendranagar highway , about 600 kilometers west of the capital , Kathmandu .
The explosion comes on the second day of a week-long strike called by Maoist rebels to disrupt Wednesday 's local elections to be held across the country .
The rebels have threatened to harm anyone who participates in the municipal elections .
More than 600 candidates have already dropped out .
The rebels and opposition parties oppose the elections , calling them a sham aimed at legitimizing King Gyanendra 's seizure of power a year ago in the constitutional monarchy .
The king says he took absolute rule because the government failed to stop the nearly decade-long Maoist insurgency .
Thousands of Egyptians demonstrated in central Cairo Wednesday to demand democratic reform .
The protest brought together members of the banned Islamist group the Muslim Brotherhood and several leftist groups .
It was one of the largest and the latest in a series of demonstrations held ahead of Egypt 's first multi-candidate presidential elections scheduled for September .
Egyptians approved an amendment to allow more than one presidential candidate earlier this year .
But opposition officials say the amendment includes restrictive measures that will prevent a credible challenge to President Hosni Mubarak if he decides to seek another term .
Egypt has banned the Muslim Brotherhood so members of the group will not be able to take part in the election .
Burma 's military government appears to have resumed its promised release of prisoners after a delay of several days .
Journalists in Rangoon Thursday said they saw inmates being freed from the country 's largest jail , Insein prison .
They apparently were the first to be let go since a few hundred were granted freedom last Friday .
The government announced last week that it would free some 4,000 prisoners it said were wrongly detained by the recently disbanded security apparatus , the National lntelligence Bureau .
Of those freed last week , only a handful were said to be political dissidents .
Sources in the Burmese capital tell VOA one of those expected to be released is Win Tin , a former top aide to opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
Win Tin has been jailed since 1989 and is 74 years old .
Aung San Suu Kyi remains under house arrest .
Pakistani security officials say they have detained a suspected Taliban commander and killed at least five other militants during an operation in the country 's northwest .
Officials say security forces clashed with the insurgents Thursday in the Mohmand tribal region , bordering Bajaur , where Pakistani troops have been fighting Taliban and al-Qaida militants for months .
Authorities say the security forces captured a suspected explosives expert and Pakistani Taliban commander , known as Imran or Mansoor , during the clash today .
They say the commander helped prepare suicide bomb materials and maintained links with insurgents across the border in Afghanistan .
Two brawny men came to my house to install some new floor covering in the kitchen .
Once they had moved the stove and refrigerator out of the way , it was not long before the job was done .
As they were getting ready to leave , I asked them to put the heavy appliances back in place .
The two men demanded $ 45 for this service , stating it was not in their contract .
I really had no choice but to pay them .
As soon as they left , however , the doorbell rang .
It was the two men .
They asked me to move my car , which was blocking their van .
I told them my fee : $ 45 .
The top U.S. military commander in Iraq has told troops they must refrain from torturing or mistreating Iraqis .
Army General David Petraeus reminded American forces in an open letter dated Thursday they had to convince Iraqis that " we - not our enemies - occupy the high moral ground . "
General Petraeus was responding to a recent survey of U.S. ground troops in Iraq , which found more than one-third of all Marines and Army soldiers support torture if it leads to information about insurgents , or saves the lives of U.S. troops .
Many also said they would not report a fellow serviceman for killing or injuring an Iraqi civilian .
The general says that while seeing a fellow trooper killed can lead to anger and a need for revenge , torture is " neither useful nor necessary . "
The Libyan government has given its first-ever donation to the World Food Program to assist with relief efforts in the Darfur region .
The U.N. agency says it will use the $ 4.5 million contribution to cover the increased costs of jet fuel for food airlifts into the troubled area .
In a statement , the agency says it has been airlifting food from southern Libya into Darfur for nearly a year .
It says Libya has provided a ground transportation corridor for relief convoys from the port of Benghazi , Libya , into eastern Chad since 2004 .
The World Food Program says it aims to help two-point-seven million people in the Darfur region of western Sudan , and more than 200,000 Sudanese refugees in eastern Chad .
A U.S. group measuring governments ' Internet censorship says Burma has one of the world 's most restrictive policies and may be increasing control through sophisticated filtering software .
The " Open Net Initiative " group , supported by several rights groups and U.S. universities , says Burma 's regulating system has both broad , vaguely worded policies governing Internet behavior and harsh penalties for lawbreakers .
It says the state focuses on blocking politically sensitive information such as pro-democracy Web sites , and has the capability to monitor e-mail communication .
The group says even some mainstream Internet sites , like Yahoo and Hotmail , are barred because they thwart state monitoring .
It says the government uses Internet filtering software purchased from a U.S. company , Fortinet .
The independent Irawaddy newspaper quotes officials with the company denying the charge .
Palestinian officials and witnesses say Hamas militiamen detained at least 10 members of the rival Fatah movement after breaking up a wedding and beating guests .
The witnesses said the arrests occurred during overnight marriage celebrations in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanun .
Hamas authorities say the wedding guests were singing Fatah nationalist songs in support of Palestinian President and Fatah leader Mahmoud Abbas , and firing guns into the air .
Hospital workers said at least 10 people were hurt in the confrontation .
Witnesses said that after the incident , about 150 relatives of those arrested staged protests outside Hamas offices in the town .
Most of the protesters were women and children .
Hamas militants took control of the Gaza Strip nearly two months ago after a week of deadly street battles with Fatah .
The state-run China Daily newspaper has reported the 2008 Olympics will create more than 1.8 million jobs in Beijing and boost the Chinese capital 's overall economic growth .
The newspaper cited a new economic outlook by two statisticians for the city government that says Beijing 's economy will grow 9.8 percent annually between now and 2008 .
That is an increase of almost one percentage point ( 0.8 ) from the annual average between 2001 and 2005 .
The report says more than 50 sectors of the economy will benefit from the Games , with construction leading the way with more than 20 percent of the growth .
The 2008 Games have spurred Beijing to launch numerous infrastructure development projects , including expanded highway and subway systems , an Olympic sports and culture zone and 17 new gymnasiums .
Jordanian officials say King Abdullah has ordered his ambassador to return to Iraq one day after the envoy was recalled .
On Sunday , in a diplomatic tit-for-tat Iraq and Jordan both recalled their top diplomats .
Jordan called its ambassador to Iraq home for consultations after Iraqis , protesting a deadly bombing south of Baghdad , raised the Iraqi flag over the Jordanian embassy .
The protesters gathered at the embassy after news reports said the suicide bomber was a Jordanian national .
Hours after the Jordanian recall Iraqi brought home its ambassador to Jordan for consultations .
Meanwhile , a car bomb attack in Samarra wounded 10 people Monday and a U.S. soldier was killed in an insurgent attack in Kirkuk .
On Sunday , coalition soldiers killed 24 insurgents who attacked a coalition convoy outside Baghdad .
French football star Zinedine Zidane has announced that he will retire from the sport after this summer 's World Cup tournament in Germany .
Zidane told French television , Canal Plus , Tuesday that he has made a " definitive " decision that the World Cup is his last goal .
The inspirational Real Madrid playmaker said the World Cup is the only thing he wants to focus on .
Zidane was awarded FIFA World Player of the Year honors in 1998 , 2000 and 2003 and has won 99 caps for France , including 17 as captain .
He scored two goals against Brazil in the final to secure the 1998 World Cup .
Zidane became the world 's most expensive player in 2001 when he moved from Juventus of Italy to Real Madrid for $ 66 million .
France is grouped with Switzerland , South Korea and Togo at this year 's World Cup .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani is in the United States for weeks of medical care , including weight-loss treatment .
Mr. Talabani , a Kurd , arrived at the Mayo Clinic in the northern U.S. state of Minnesota on Sunday .
The Iraqi president , who is in his early 70s , has said he has no health problems except for his weight .
Earlier this year , he underwent more than two weeks of treatment in Jordan for exhaustion and dehydration .
Mr. Talabani 's role as president is largely ceremonial , but he has been influential in political efforts to try to heal Iraq 's sectarian divisions .
China says it will accept bids next week from three international firms to design and build four nuclear reactors .
U.S.-based Westinghouse , along with companies from France and Russia , will submit bids to build the reactors in China 's eastern province of Zhejiang and the southern province of Guangdong .
Westinghouse 's efforts got a boost last week when the U.S. Export-Import Bank approved nearly five billion dollars to help finance the project .
This is the first time a U.S. firm has competed for a nuclear project in China .
China is seeking to boost its nuclear power program as part of an overall effort to meet its growing energy demands .
It already has nine nuclear power plants in operation .
The Chinese state news agency says 21 miners were killed in a mine explosion in southwestern China last week .
The accident happened Thursday at a small mine in Panzhihua , in Sichuan province .
Xinhua news agency says 10 miners survived the disaster .
It says a preliminary investigation found the blast was caused by poor management practices .
It did not explain the delay in reporting the blast .
China has the deadliest mines in the world , despite government efforts to improve safety .
More than 1,000 miners have been killed this year .
Mine producers ignore safety regulations to fulfill soaring energy demands brought on by China 's booming economy .
The teen years are often a difficult time for girls and boys as they make the transition from children to young adults .
One group is using the written word to help ease the transition for girls who come from difficult environments in New York .
‘ Girls Write Now ’ pairs teenage girls with professional women writers , who serve as writing coaches .
Paige Kollock reports .
Daughter of journalist Dharmeratnam Sivaram , grieves by his body in Talangama , near Colombo Sri Lanka 's government has ordered a full-scale investigation into the murder of a prominent Tamil journalist who was abducted outside a restaurant Thursday night .
Dharmeratnam Sivaram , a 46-year-old senior editor of a pro-Tamil rebel website , was out with friends when four unidentified men grabbed him .
He was shot after being bound and gagged , and his body dumped near the Sri Lankan parliamentary complex .
Mr. Sivaram , also a columnist with an English language daily , was the country 's best-known Tamil Internet journalist .
The website was popular for its reporting on the Sri Lankan civil war and the peace process after the 2002 cease-fire .
The Paris-based media watch dog Reporters Without Borders had expressed fears for Mr. Sivaram 's safety after police searched his home in Colombo last year .
It is difficult to trust anyone whose instrument changes shape as he plays it !
Thai police say at least 18 bombs have exploded at banks in the restive southern province of Yala , killing at least one person and wounding several others .
Officials suspect militants detonated the bombs , which exploded Thursday at or near commercial banks in Yala 's provincial capital and nearby districts .
Islamist insurgents have staged a lengthy series of attacks in Yala and two other Muslim-majority provinces in southern Thailand , Narathiwat and Pattani , since January 2004 .
The provinces were a Malay sultanate until Buddhist Thailand annexed them a century ago .
More than 1,400 people have been killed since the insurgency erupted .
Austrian prosecutors say the three-year prison term of a British historian convicted of denying the Nazi Holocaust is too light and have appealed the ruling .
A spokesman for the Vienna prosecutor 's office , Walter Geyer , announced the appeal of the sentence of David Irving .
The historian Monday pleaded guilty to charges of denying the Holocaust following his arrest in November over comments he made in 1989 .
He told the judge that he had abandoned those views after finding documents by the chief planner of the Jewish genocide , Adolf Eichmann .
The chief judge , however , said he did not believe Irving was sincere .
The British historian also has said he plans to appeal the sentence .
Irving has written books calling Nazi concentration camp gas chambers a hoax , and he has said that Nazi forces killed far fewer than the estimated six million Jews .
Mexico 's Zapatista rebels have emerged from their jungle hideout to begin a six-month nationwide tour in a bid to influence this year 's presidential elections .
Rebel leader Subcomandante Marcos led the Zapatistas into the city of San Cristobal de las Casas on Sunday riding a motorcycle to the cheers of thousands of supporters .
The rebels plan to visit every Mexican state to build support for the country 's indigenous people and the poor ahead of the July vote .
The ski mask-wearing rebel leader - who now wants to be called " Delegate Zero " - says the rebels will avoid big rallies and concentrate on building ties with ordinary workers .
The tour began on the 12th anniversary of the Zapatista 's bloody uprising demanding greater rights for Indians , and autonomy for the Chiapas region .
Acting Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert says Iran is obsessed with hatred of Israel and the Jewish people and must be stopped from developing nuclear weapons .
Speaking late Tuesday , the Israeli leader called for concrete , joint action by the international community to stop Iran 's alleged push to develop a nuclear arsenal .
Hours earlier , the leaders of Russia and France joined the chorus of world leaders calling on Tehran to stop all uranium enrichment .
China called for continued diplomatic efforts to ease growing international tensions .
Iran insists its nuclear program is aimed at developing electricity .
Iran resumed small-scale uranium enrichment Monday -- an initial step in the process of producing fuel for nuclear reactors or atomic weapons .
Iran had threatened to resume enrichment after the International Atomic Energy Agency referred it to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions earlier this month .
Gunmen have raided a hospital in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk , freeing a wounded man who was detained for plotting to kill a judge involved in Saddam Hussein 's trial .
A police official says three police guards were killed and six others were wounded in the early morning attack Wednesday .
Elsewhere , an American soldier was killed Tuesday near the western town of Habbaniya when his vehicle hit a mine .
Meanwhile , in London , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Britain can not meet the demands of kidnappers holding a British peace activist and three other Westerners hostage in Iraq .
Mr. Straw said no government could meet their demands .
The kidnappers have threatened to kill the hostages unless Iraqi detainees are released from American and Iraqi jails by Thursday .
Syria and Iraq have re-opened embassies in each other 's capitals for the first time in more than two decades .
They agreed last month to resume diplomatic relations that were severed because of Syria 's support for Iran during the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s .
Meanwhile , in violence Monday , bombings killed two people in Baghdad .
And gunmen wearing Iraqi army uniforms stole one million dollars and kidnapped four security guards from a vehicle transporting the money to the central bank in Baghdad .
In western Baghdad , U.S. and Iraqi troops found and freed 23 kidnapped Iraqis and arrested six men suspected of abducting them .
The U.S. military also says a Marine helicopter made an emergency landing in Anbar province , injuring 18 people on board .
But officials do not believe the helicopter was forced to land because of enemy action .
Roadside bombs killed four American soldiers in Baghdad on Sunday .
A former Australian soldier is suspected of appearing in a videotaped terror message released this week , threatening attacks against the West .
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Friday , that former army private Mathew Stewart is suspected of joining al-Qaida , although he has not been identified as the masked spokesman in the video .
Mr. Downer says the government has reason to believe Mr. Stewart is one of a number of Australians who have turned to al-Qaida .
Federal police have questioned Mr. Stewart 's family , and his mother says he is not the man in the video .
Mr. Stewart served with the U.N. peacekeeping force in East Timor before he was discharged in 2001 and traveled to Afghanistan the next year .
He has not been seen since .
A bomb exploded near a busy bus terminal south of the Pakistani capital Islamabad late Monday , killing at least nine people and injuring around 17 others .
Local police say the explosion in Rawalpindi appears to be a suicide attack .
Some news reports say the bomber was inside a car or on a motorcycle when the explosives went off .
Emergency personnel are at the scene .
No other information is immediately available .
The attack came on the same day the government gave in to opposition demands to reinstate a popular Supreme Court justice .
The concession prompted supporters of opposition leader Nawaz Sharif to call off his so-called " long march " to Islamabad .
Pakistan has been facing a wave of militant attacks over the past few years .
The government has recently signed separate peace agreements with Islamic militants in the Swat Valley , and in the neighboring Bajaur region .
Thousands of people have marched in two Colombian cities to protest a planned free trade agreement with the United States .
The marchers massed in Bogota and Cartagena Thursday , saying the accord would worsen unemployment in the Andean nation .
The demonstration took place as trade negotiators from Colombia , Ecuador , Peru and the United States met for a new round of talks in Cartagena .
The negotiations for the free trade deal began in May of last year and are supposed to conclude next month .
The Andean countries want to extend existing trade accords that allow them to export items such as fresh cut flowers without tariffs .
The agreements , set to expire in 2006 , were put in place to help countries on the front lines in the fight against the illegal drug trade .
The Treasury Department has frozen the U.S. assets of five people and four groups for alleged connections to an organization with ties to the al-Qaida terrorist network .
The suspects , companies - Sara Properties , Meadowbrook Investments and Ozlam Properties - and charity - Sanabel Relief Agency - are reported to be based in Britain .
A statement from the Treasury Department accuses them of financing the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group .
That group is alleged to be affiliated with al-Qaida and allegedly has engaged in terrorist activities including the attempted assassination of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
The order against the individuals and groups also bars Americans from doing business with them .
Italian prosecutors say police have arrested two foreigners suspected of plotting terror attacks on targets near Milan .
Italy 's ANSA news agency says the suspects are Moroccan nationals with suspected links to al-Qaida .
The report says the two , identified as Rachid Ilhami and Gafir Abdelkader , were planning attacks on a supermarket and a nightclub parking lot outside Milan .
Authorities say additional attacks were planned on police stations in the area .
The report says wiretaps showed the suspects initially planned to use a van packed with explosives , but later decided to use oxygen canisters .
ANSA says police also seized a cultural center near Milan , where one of the suspects worked as a preacher .
Both suspects are thought to have lived in Italy for several years .
A sleek , black and chrome French train with oversized wheels has broken a world speed record for conventional rail , reaching a top velocity of nearly 575 kilometers per hour .
French television Tuesday showed sparks flying and a long tail of dust , as the specially built ( V-150 ) train streaked through the French countryside .
The train easily surpassed the old French record of 515 kilometers per hour set in 1990 , and just missed the Japanese record ( 581 kph ) for a train that levitates over magnetic track .
French manufacturer Alstom equipped the train with two 25,000 horsepower engines and three double-decker cars .
It set the record on a newly-built track linking Paris with Strasbourg .
A modified version of the prototype train is set to begin passenger service between Paris and Strasbourg in June .
American actor Dennis Weaver , who was famous for his role as Chester in the television show Gunsmoke , has died at the age of 81 .
Weaver 's publicist said Monday that he died at his home in Colorado from complications caused by cancer .
As a young man , Weaver served in the Navy during World War II and took part in qualifications for the 1948 U.S. Olympic decathlon team .
He later pursued acting , and won an Emmy award in the 1950s for his role as the tall , limping Chester on the Western Gunsmoke .
Dennis Weaver also starred in a television series during the 1970s called McCloud and appeared in several major movies .
Seismologists say a 7.1 magnitude earthquake has struck about 100 kilometers south of the coast of Taiwan .
Japanese seismologists have issued a tsunami warning for the region , saying a one-meter-tall tsunami is now heading for the Philippines .
Taiwanese scientists say the earthquake was followed by a magnitude 6.4 aftershock that struck off of southwestern Taiwan .
There have been no immediate reports of damage or casualties .
Pakistani officials say the latest crackdown has resulted in the arrest of up to 600 suspected militants , clerics and Islamist activists across the country .
Those detained include members of outlawed militant organizations , clerics accused of delivering " provocative " speeches , and Islamists accused of publishing or distributing hate material .
At least 295 of the detainees belong to militant groups outlawed over the past three years .
President Pervez Musharraf ordered the crackdown after revelations that some of the suspected suicide bombers in the July 7 attacks on London were Britons of Pakistani descent who had visited Pakistan .
But Pakistani officials say the arrests had nothing to do with the London Bombings .
The officials say some of those detained will be tried under Pakistan 's Anti-Terrorism Law , which allows authorities to hold a suspect up to a year without laying charges .
Iraqi search and rescue crews are pulling bodies Friday from destroyed buildings after a barrage of rocket and bomb attacks on Baghdad killed at least 64 people Thursday .
The attack , which officials say included explosives planted in apartments , wounded more than 250 people .
The series of blasts went off for a half hour in mainly Shi'ite areas of the capital .
The coordinated attacks occurred during the intensified U.S.-Iraqi security clampdown across the capital aimed at stopping sectarian violence .
Earlier Thursday , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said he hoped Iraqi forces would be able to take responsibility for security for most of the country by the end of the year .
He said the province of Dhi Qar will be handed over to Iraqi forces next month .
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe told the U.N. General Assembly Sunday that claims of a humanitarian crisis in his country are unfounded .
Mr. Mugabe said those who criticized Zimbabwe 's recent program to demolish illegal dwellings and street stalls were trying to tarnish the image of Zimbabwe and depict it as a failed state .
A recent U.N. report called Mr. Mugabe 's so-called urban cleanup campaign a disastrous policy that left 700,000 people without homes or jobs .
President Mugabe told the General Assembly that what he calls " Operation Restore Order " cleared the way for a vast reconstruction program that would lead to new factories and homes .
He also criticized what he called Zimbabwe 's " detractors and ill-wishers " for reporting starvation in the country .
He said those reports were not true .
U.S. lawmakers have approved an addition $ 2 billion to fund an immensely popular car trade-in program known as " cash for clunkers . "
The House of Representatives rushed a bill forward Friday to replenish funding for the program , which nearly exhausted its initial $ 1 billion funding limit within a matter of days .
President Barack Obama praised lawmakers for working quickly to pass the bill .
His administration had promised to extend the initiative .
The legislation still has to be approved by the Senate , which is likely to vote next week .
" Cash for clunkers " gives car owners up to $ 4,500 in rebates to trade in older vehicles for more fuel-efficient models .
The government launched the program one week ago to boost U.S. auto sales and to improve the fuel economy of vehicles on the road .
It was scheduled to run through November 1 .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz is in Islamabad , where he met with President Pervez Musharraf and praised Pakistan 's economic and banking sector reforms .
General Musharraf thanked the World Bank for its support to Pakistan , which includes poverty alleviation , water , power , energy and infrastructure projects .
Pakistan is the World Bank 's fifth-largest borrower .
Earlier , Mr. Wolfowitz met with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , a former Citibank executive who is credited with turning around Pakistan 's economy over the past few years .
The government has said that Pakistan 's economy grew 8.4 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June .
Mr. Wolfowitz also met with people from poor rural areas to learn how World Bank-funded projects have helped them .
The World Bank president is scheduled to leave on Wednesday for India .
A published report says between $ 5 million and $ 15 million worth of oil a day is missing in Iraq , and could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling .
Citing a draft report from the U.S. Government Accountability office , The New York Times said Saturday the losses amount to between 100,000 and 300,000 barrels a day of Iraq 's declared oil production over the past four years .
The Times quotes an unnamed State Department official who offered some possible explanations for the losses , including pipeline sabotage , and inaccurate reporting of oil production .
The newspaper says the report did not make a final conclusion on what happened to the missing oil .
The Times said the report is expected to be released next week .
Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the British and settled in 1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions .
Pitcairn was the first Pacific island to become a British colony ( in 1838 ) and today remains the last vestige of that empire in the South Pacific .
Outmigration , primarily to New Zealand , has thinned the population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to less than 50 today .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says he hopes to bring the United States back into global warming talks .
Mr. Blair said Wednesday - the day the Kyoto pact took effect - that global warming could become a catastrophe and that getting the United States back into a dialogue is one solution .
President Bush pulled out of Kyoto in 2001 , saying it would hurt the U.S. economy .
He has called for new technology as one way to cut greenhouse gases .
Some European leaders have criticized the United States for pulling out of the Kyoto treaty .
They say they expect Mr. Bush to address the matter when he visits Europe next week .
U.S. military officials in Afghanistan say four American soldiers were killed Saturday when their vehicle hit a mine and exploded .
The military says the blast occurred Saturday in the southeastern province of Logar , where U.S. and Afghan soldiers were surveying a potential site for a weapons range .
Officials say they are not certain if the mine had been planted recently or was old unexploded ordnance .
Afghanistan is littered with old mines after a quarter century of war .
The deaths came a day after a U.S. Defense Department spokesman , Paul Swiergosz , said American troops will provide transportation and planning support to U.S. and Afghan agencies conducting counter drug operations .
The 17,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan were previously instructed only to seize or destroy drugs discovered during military operations .
In 1979 the Federated States of Micronesia , a UN Trust Territory under US administration , adopted a constitution .
In 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with the US , which was amended and renewed in 2004 .
Present concerns include large-scale unemployment , overfishing , and overdependence on US aid .
Argentinean authorities say they have arrested a Colombian model accused of leading a drug-trafficking ring .
Authorities say they detained Angie Sanclemente Valenica on Wednesday in Argentina 's capital Buenos Aires .
Valencia , a former beauty queen , had been accused of heading a group of attractive young women that smuggled cocaine to Mexico .
Valencia has denied the charges .
Her native Colombia is the world 's largest cocaine producer .
Somalia 's parliament has approved Mohammed Ali Gedi as the country 's new prime minister , nearly two weeks after rejecting his nomination .
More than 80 percent of lawmakers voted to approve Mr. Gedi Thursday .
He was later sworn in during a ceremony in Nairobi , Kenya , where the new government has been meeting due to security concerns at home .
Earlier this month , lawmakers passed a vote of no confidence in Mr. Gedi , saying Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed failed to seek parliament 's approval for the nomination .
The president re-appointed Mr. Gedi two days later , satisfying lawmakers demands that the process comply with rules governing the newly created power-sharing government .
Parliament had also rejected the prime minister 's formation of a cabinet of nearly 80 ministers .
Mr. Gedi is expected to appoint a new cabinet in the coming weeks .
The U.S. military in Iraq says three coalition soldiers have been killed in Iraq in separate incidents in the past 24 hours .
Officials say one soldier was killed and four others injured when their patrol was attacked by an explosive and small arms fire near Ashraf .
And two American soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in eastern Baghdad .
The casualties Wednesday came as U.S. officials announced troops had killed two members of al-Qaida in Iraq during separate operations .
The security situation in Iraq was cited by defense lawyers for Saddam Hussein , who demanded bodyguards and other security measures following the kidnapping and murder of a lawyer representing one of Saddam 's co-defendants .
And in Washington , U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad , said military officials could begin reducing the size of American forces in Iraq next year .
The U.S. Senate is expected to take up a measure Wednesday designed to make sweeping reforms to the nation 's intelligence agencies .
Lawmakers in the House of Representatives approved the bill Tuesday night by a vote of 336 to 75 .
The bill calls for the creation of a national intelligence director and a National Counterterrorism Center to coordinate all intelligence on terrorist activity .
The bill enacts many of the reforms advocated by the panel that investigated the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
A White House spokesman said President Bush was very pleased with the bill 's passage in the House and that the president believes it will make America safer .
Congressional leaders said earlier Tuesday they were able to resolve key differences in the bill that had delayed its final passage .
Iraqi police say at least 28 people , including seven policemen , were killed in a powerful explosion in a Baghdad house overnight .
Officials describe the incident as an ambush , saying " massive amounts of explosives " were detonated as police raided the building .
Police had earlier received an anonymous tip that the house was a suspected base for foreign militants .
Officials say several nearby houses also collapsed , and they fear a number of residents might be trapped under the rubble .
Tuesday , at least 23 Iraqi police and national guards were killed in a series of insurgent attacks in the so-called Sunni Triangle region north of Baghdad - in and near the towns of Tikrit , Samarra , Balad and Baquba .
Top U.S. military officials in Iraq say they expect an escalation of attacks and assassination attempts ahead of the January 30th elections .
Pakistan has re-opened a route critical to transporting supplies to NATO and U.S.-led forces in neighboring Afghanistan .
Local officials say Pakistani security forces escorted a convoy of about 30 food trucks and oil tankers through the Khyber Pass Monday .
Pakistan closed the route last week after gunmen hijacked about 15 supply trucks destined for Afghanistan .
Security along the countries ' mountainous border is a major concern for U.S.-led troops fighting Taliban and al-Qaida militants in Afghanistan .
The U.S. military says 23 of the terror suspects being held at the U.S. detention camp at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , tried to hang or strangle themselves in a coordinated , mass disruption in 2003 .
A military spokesman , Lieutenant Commander Chris Lounderma , told VOA two of the protesters attempted suicide , during the disruption from August 18 to August 26 of 2003 .
The spokesman said those two protesters required hospital treatment before they were eventually transferred to a psychiatric ward .
Officials say the demonstration was an attempt to disrupt operations at Guantanamo and unnerve new security guards .
The U.S. military released details on the disruption in response to questions from U.S. media .
There are some 550 prisoners held at the camp .
Busta Rhymes will face trial on two assault charges after being caught driving with a suspended license .
A Manhattan judge Monday , March 26 , withdrew a plea offer which included probation , community service , and a series of lectures to troubled youth .
The trial is tentatively set to start May 8 .
The 34-year-old rapper - real name Trevor Smith , Jr. - is accused of beating his former driver last December in a dispute over back pay .
The other case involves an August , 2006 attack on a fan , who allegedly spit on the rapper 's car .
New York City police also want to question Busta Rhymes in connection with the February , 2006 shooting death of his bodyguard , Israel Ramirez .
They claim he has been uncooperative .
Chinese journalists covering the recent collapse of a bridge in central China , which killed at least 41 people , have been harassed while trying to interview grieving families of the deceased .
According to a Chinese-language Web site , China Public Opinion Monitor , that focuses on human rights issues , a group of reporters from five state-run newspapers , including the Communist Party 's People 's Daily , were attacked by a group of unidentified men earlier this week in Hunan province .
An editor from China 's Southern Metropolitan Daily confirmed to VOA Mandarin service that the clash occurred .
Local government officials deny that any reporters were beaten .
Monday 's collapse of the bridge over the Tuo river in Hunan province has captured nationwide media attention and China 's president has promised a swift investigation .
It is still unclear why the bridge collapsed .
Scientists are warning that a long-term temperature increase of more than two-degrees Celsius would have dangerous consequences for global climate systems .
Meeting at a U.N. sponsored climate conference in Argentina Tuesday , a group of European experts said such an increase could threaten Latin American water supplies , reduce food yields in Asia and increase extreme weather conditions in the Caribbean .
Most scientists agree that global temperatures have already risen an average of more than half-a-degree Celsius over the past century .
The main focus of the two-week U.N. conference in Buenos Aires conference is the 1997 Kyoto Protocol , which mandates the reduction of carbon dioxide and other gas emissions believed to cause global warming .
The United States and Australia are the only major industrial countries that have failed to ratify the accord .
In rejecting the accord , President Bush said it would damage the U.S. economy .
Egyptian police say they have killed one of the main suspects in the recent bombings at Egypt 's Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh .
A police official says Mohammed Saleh Fulayfill was killed and his wife was wounded during a shootout with police near the town of Suez .
The July 23 bombings at Sharm el-Sheikh killed at least 64 people .
The suspect was also being tried in his absence for his alleged role in similar bomb attacks last October in the Egyptian resort town of Taba .
Plans to build a mosque near the site of the destroyed World Trade Center in New York cleared an obstacle Tuesday when a city committee denied landmark status to a nearby building .
The New York Landmarks Preservation Committee voted unanimously against giving protected status to a building constructed in the 1850s , that developers want to tear down to build an Islamic community center and mosque .
The World Trade Center site in downtown New York has been known as ground zero since the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 destroyed the twin towers that once stood there .
The plan to build a mosque a few blocks from the ground zero has drawn criticism from those who say it is disrespectful to victims who were killed in an attack by Islamist extremists .
Supporters of the project say it will help bridge divisions between the West and the Muslim world .
London police chief Ian Blair says police have made what he calls " significant " progress in its investigation into last week 's failed London subway bombings .
Investigators said Tuesday they found a large amount of suspicious material in a north London apartment connected to one of the four wanted suspects .
They have also seized a suspicious car parked near the apartment .
The suspects fled from three London subway stations and a bus when their bombs failed to explode on July 21st .
Police have identified two of the suspects as a British citizen from Eritrea and a Somali living legally in Britain .
Authorities are looking for a link between the July 21 attack and the July 7 London suicide bombings that killed 56 people .
Congo 's President Joseph Kabila has suspended six government ministers accused of embezzling money through state-run companies .
Mr. Kabila says the sanctions target the ministers of energy , transport and communications , higher education , public works and infrastructure , mining , and external trade .
The government also suspended 10 top officials in state-run companies as part of an ongoing probe into corruption charges .
Mr. Kabila 's transition government is struggling to rebuild the nation , following more than 30 years of corrupt rule by former dictator Mobutu Sese Seko .
Mobutu 's regime was accused of massive fraud and looting of funds through government offices and state mining companies .
The U.S. Navy is warning ships to stay away from the coast of Somalia after a series of pirate attacks there .
The U.S. Maritime Liaison Office in Bahrain says that , although ships belonging to U.S.-led anti-terror coalition are operating in the area , they can not monitor every ship that passes the east coast of Somalia .
The office is urging merchant ships to stay at least 200 nautical miles ( 370 kilometers ) off Somalia .
Pirates have attacked at least eight ships in the area this year .
On Saturday , pirates tried , but failed , to hijack a boat carrying food to Somalia for the United Nations World Food Program .
The United Nations is calling for international action against the rampant piracy off Somalia 's coast , saying it threatens further aid deliveries to the country .
President Bush is holding a televised news conference to discuss two of his top priorities - energy and the government 's Social Security pension plan .
Listen on VOA News Now for the live news conference on the following shortwave frequencies : 7115 Khz , 9885 Khz , 11705 Khz and 11725 Khz , or monitor it here now on VOANews.com .
The news conference will also be available on FM in some areas .
Baghdad listeners can tune in 102.4 FM ; Mosul listeners , 104.6 FM ; and in Basra , 105 FM .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan says the president will talk about specific ideas to keep Social Security solvent in the future .
He says Mr. Bush will also talk about the importance of addressing the nation 's long-term energy needs .
The news conference comes as rising fuel costs continue to take a toll on the U.S. economy and Mr. Bush 's approval ratings .
The White House says Florida Governor and President Bush 's brother Jeb will lead a delegation to Haiti for Sunday 's inauguration of incoming Haitian President René Préval .
A statement issued Monday said U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Janet Ann Sanderson and M.
Rony Francois , Secretary of the Florida Department of Health , also will comprise the presidential delegation announced by President Bush .
The incoming Haitian leader won the presidency in February , following a campaign of promises to improve social conditions and education for Haitians .
The vote ushered in the first democratically elected government in Haiti since the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 2004 .
Mr. Préval first held the presidency from 1996 to 2001 .
Military regimes favoring Islamic-oriented governments have dominated national politics since independence from the UK in 1956 .
Sudan was embroiled in two prolonged civil wars during most of the remainder of the 20th century .
These conflicts were rooted in northern economic , political , and social domination of largely non-Muslim , non-Arab southern Sudanese .
The first civil war ended in 1972 but broke out again in 1983 .
The second war and famine-related effects resulted in more than four million people displaced and , according to rebel estimates , more than two million deaths over a period of two decades .
Peace talks gained momentum in 2002 - 04 with the signing of several accords .
The final North / South Comprehensive Peace Agreement ( CPA ) , signed in January 2005 , granted the southern rebels autonomy for six years followed by a referendum on independence for Southern Sudan .
The referendum was held in January 2011 and indicated overwhelming support for independence .
A separate conflict , which broke out in the western region of Darfur in 2003 , has displaced nearly two million people and caused an estimated 200,000 to 400,000 deaths .
The UN took command of the Darfur peacekeeping operation from the African Union in December 2007 .
Peacekeeping troops have struggled to stabilize the situation , which has become increasingly regional in scope and has brought instability to eastern Chad .
Sudan also has faced large refugee influxes from neighboring countries primarily Ethiopia and Chad .
Armed conflict , poor transport infrastructure , and lack of government support have chronically obstructed the provision of humanitarian assistance to affected populations .
U.S.-led forces in Iraq 's western Anbar province say they have detained 13 suspected insurgents in a continuing offensive along the Euphrates river .
A U.S. military statement Thursday said no major battles or airstrikes have occurred during the operation , which began Tuesday around the city of Hit .
The statement also said troops have confiscated hundreds of mortars , explosives and guns .
It said basic utilities in the town continue to function and residents continue to have access to medical treatment .
Anbar is Iraq 's largest province and is believed to be an insurgent stronghold and transit route for foreign fighters .
The Israeli military has acknowledged it carried out a strike in Gaza City Wednesday that killed a Palestinian man and wounded another .
Military officials say the strike targeted a militant with the Army of Islam , an extremist group believed to have al-Qaida loyalties .
The Israeli military released a statement saying the intended target ( identified as Mohammed Jamal al-Nimnim ) had directed several attacks against Israel .
The military says the strike was a joint effort between Israeli Defense Forces and the Israel Security Agency .
Earlier Wednesday , Palestinians blamed Israel after the suspect 's car exploded near Hamas police headquarters .
Israeli media reports said the blast could have been a car bomb that detonated prematurely , but there was no official word from Israel .
The explosion comes during a period of relative calm between the Palestinian-ruled territory and Israel -- and between the rival Hamas and Fatah factions .
By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the independent Republic of Cyprus , the UK retained full sovereignty and jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers - Akrotiri and Dhekelia .
The southernmost and smallest of these is the Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area , which is also referred to as the Western Sovereign Base Area .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb has killed three Afghans and two foreigners in the country 's south .
Officials say the victims worked for an American security company ( USPI ) and were killed on the road linking Kandahar with Herat .
The nationalities of the two foreigners is not clear .
The Taleban are being blamed for the attack .
In a separate incident , a suicide bomber blew up himself and his accomplice in the center of Kandahar city Tuesday .
There were no other casualties .
The governor of Kandahar province , Asadullah Khalid , blamed the attack on people he considers Taleban militants .
Taleban insurgents have increased attacks in southern Afghanistan in recent months .
U.S.-led forces overthrew the hardline Islamist Taleban regime in late 2001 , following the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States .
Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in 1814 .
The island staunchly supported the UK through both world wars and remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964 .
A decade later Malta became a republic .
Since about the mid-1980s , the island has transformed itself into a freight transshipment point , a financial center , and a tourist destination .
Malta became an EU member in May 2004 and began using the euro as currency in 2008 .
The U.S. government is taking steps to move Hurricane Katrina evacuees out of hotels and into long-term housing .
The Federal Emergency Management Agency , known as FEMA has told families living in more than 40,000 hotel rooms across the country that it will stop paying their hotel bills on December 1 .
Funding will last until January 7 for another 12,000 families occupying hotel rooms in the states of Louisiana and Mississippi , where damage from Katrina has led to a housing shortage .
Up to 150,000 evacuees will have to find apartments or other housing options by the deadlines if they want to continue receiving FEMA rental assistance of $ 786 a month .
Advocates for the evacuees have criticized the deadlines , saying FEMA is not giving the families enough time to find new housing .
A Russian who had been held at the U.S. detention center at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , says U.S. forces there regularly desecrated the Koran .
Airat Vakhitov , who was released from Guantanamo last year , said soldiers threw Korans into the toilet and regularly desecrated the book to provoke a response .
The Associated Press quotes Mr. Vakhitov as later saying he did not personally see the Koran being desecrated , but was informed of the alleged incidents by other detainees .
U.S. officials did not immediately respond to the claims made Tuesday in Moscow .
Earlier this month , the Pentagon acknowledged that U.S. forces at Guantanamo had mishandled the Koran on several occasions .
Newsweek magazine reported last month that U.S. forces in Guantanamo had flushed a Koran down a toilet - a charged that sparked deadly riots in Afghanistan and protests in a number of other countries .
The magazine later retracted the story .
Officials in Afghanistan say Taleban militants have beheaded four Afghan men .
Authorities say the decapitated bodies were found in Shajoy district of insurgent-hit Zabol province .
They say the men were kidnapped from their homes Tuesday .
The Taleban claimed responsibility , accusing the men of spying for the United States .
That claim could not be immediately confirmed .
Also Friday , a roadside bomb exploded as a convoy carrying Denmark 's defense chief , Jesper Helsoe , passed by .
The explosion occurred near Feyzabad in the northeastern part of the country .
No casualties were reported .
Late Thursday , coalition leaders announced the deaths of 14 militants during the ongoing military offensive to flush out insurgents from southern Afghanistan .
The Taleban , whose government was toppled by a U.S.-led military coalition in late 2001 , have been fighting against the new government .
Pakistani officials say at least seven family members have been killed by fighting in the country 's troubled northwest .
The civilians were killed Friday when artillery shells launched by security forces hit their home in Swat Valley .
The victims included at least three children .
At least three other homes in the area also were damaged .
Troops said they were targeting militant positions in the region .
Pakistan 's military launched a major offensive against militants in Swat Valley last year , when radical cleric Maulana Fazlullah called for a holy war against the government .
Since then , security forces have killed more than 200 militants and cleared out most of the area .
A suicide bomber in a car blew himself up next to a NATO convoy in southern Afghanistan on Friday , but no troops were hurt .
The blast occurred north of Tirin Kot , the capital of Uruzgan province .
Afghan police say the suicide bomber was trying to get close to the convoy but was more than 30 meters away when the explosion went off .
The bomber was killed , but there were no other casualties .
Attacks from suspected Taleban militants against NATO , U.S. and Afghan forces increased dramatically in Afghanistan last year .
U.S. and Afghan officials have warned they expect an increase in Taleban attacks in the coming months .
The U.N. Security Council has canceled plans to send a delegation to talks with the Sudanese government and the African Union on the crisis in Darfur .
U.N. diplomats said late Friday the mission fell through after they could not agree on its scope and mandate .
The Council president , Peru 's U.N. Ambassador Jorge Voto Bernales , said members could also not agree on what message the delegation would convey to the Sudanese and A.U. officials who begin meetings Monday in Ethiopia 's capital , Addis Ababa .
The Security Council has approved a U.N. mission for Darfur to take over from an under-funded A.U. mission .
Sudan has repeatedly rejected the mission , likening a U.N. force to colonization .
To counter those rejections , U.N. diplomats are reported to be considering a force made up mainly of African troops who receive communication gear and logistical support through the United Nations .
Fiji became independent in 1970 after nearly a century as a British colony .
Democratic rule was interrupted by two military coups in 1987 caused by concern over a government perceived as dominated by the Indian community ( descendants of contract laborers brought to the islands by the British in the 19th century ) .
The coups and a 1990 constitution that cemented native Melanesian control of Fiji led to heavy Indian emigration ; the population loss resulted in economic difficulties , but ensured that Melanesians became the majority .
A new constitution enacted in 1997 was more equitable .
Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a government led by an Indo-Fijian , but a civilian-led coup in May 2000 ushered in a prolonged period of political turmoil .
Parliamentary elections held in August 2001 provided Fiji with a democratically elected government led by Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE .
Re-elected in May 2006 , QARASE was ousted in a December 2006 military coup led by Commodore Voreqe BAINIMARAMA , who initially appointed himself acting president but in January 2007 became interim prime minister .
Since taking power BAINIMARAMA has neutralized his opponents , crippled Fiji 's democratic institutions , and refused to hold elections .
Authorities in Vietnam say Typhoon Kai Tak killed at least 18 people , and emergency workers are still searching for bodies .
Weather officials say the typhoon dissipated Wednesday after battering the coast of central Vietnam .
Authorities say deaths have been reported in several regions , including the provinces of Quang Ngai and Thua Thien Hue .
At least six people are missing .
Vietnam 's official news agency says heavy rain and widespread flooding inundated thousands of homes and severely damaged roads and other infrastructure .
Thousands of hectares of crops have been destroyed .
The typhoon also prompted Chinese President Hu Jintao to cut short his visit to Vietnam .
Official reports say damage from the typhoon is estimated at $ 1.7 million .
Taiwan says it has arrested a military intelligence officer who allegedly provided defense secrets to China .
A defense ministry spokesman says the officer worked in a division responsible for collecting information about China 's military capabilities .
His activities were uncovered during an investigation into a crime ring involving fake credit cards .
The spokesman says the information the officer passed on to Beijing dealt with the mainland and not Taiwan , and was non-essential .
An Iraqi prosecutor says Saddam Hussein 's cousin and four other former officials in the ousted regime deserve the death penalty for mass killings of Kurds .
The prosecutor sought the death penalty Monday at the trial in Baghdad against Ali Hassan al-Majid and the other four officials .
Al-Majid is known as " Chemical Ali " for allegedly ordering poison gas attacks against the Kurds .
The prosecutor asked that a sixth defendant , former governor of Mosul Taher al-Ani , be released for lack of evidence .
The former officials are on trial for war crimes and crimes against humanity for the so-called Anfal campaign in the 1980s , in which 180,000 Iraqi Kurds died .
The defendants claim the campaign was against legitimate military targets - Kurdish guerrillas who had sided with Iran during the 1980 - 88 Iran-Iraq war .
Last month , a United Nations conference in Rome discussed the world 's rising food prices .
The group called for trade barriers to be reduced and food export bans to be lifted .
The cost of major food commodities has doubled over the past two years with rice , corn and wheat at record highs .
The Philippines and Haiti , among other countries , have been hard-hit .
Some Filipino and Haitian immigrants in the United States are sending food to their families back home .
VOA 's Deborah Block has the story .
At least 10 civilians died Thursday when Pakistani troops fired shells aimed at militants who are trying to impose strict Islamic law in northwestern Swat valley .
Local police say at least one home was destroyed in Allahabad village during the incident .
At least nine other people were wounded .
Pakistani troops have been trying to eject fighters loyal to cleric Maulana Fazlullah , who have taken control of some police checkpoints and towns in Swat .
Closer to the border with Afghanistan , five Pakistani soldiers in a truck were killed today by a roadside bomb that went off in North Waziristan .
Earlier this week , the Pakistani army reported gains in its battle against Islamists in Swat , saying troops had recaptured a strategic mountain peak .
The army also said it had shut down the FM radio station used by Fazlullah to call for strict Islamic law and a holy war against the Pakistani government .
Sri Lanka 's military says it has launched airstrikes on rebel sites in northern parts of the country , following rebel artillery attacks .
Officials Saturday said at least 11 soldiers were killed and 53 others were wounded in the fighting on the Jaffna peninsula .
They said Tamil Tiger rebels provoked the fighting by opening fire with artillery strikes against Sri Lankan troops .
Government officials also said they sent a naval ship to the peninsula to evacuate nearly 800 civilians trapped in the area .
Thousands of people have been stranded in northern Sri Lanka since rebels launched new attacks last month .
The Tamil Tiger rebels have been fighting for a separate homeland in the north and east since the early 1980s .
Tens of thousands of people have died in the violence .
Scientists at the National Geographic Society 's headquarters in Washington have revealed early details of an extraordinary archaeological find .
Two graveyards discovered in Northern Niger are providing important insight into life in the African Sahara when it was green and lush .
Paul Sisco reports .
Venezuela 's president has invited Haiti to join a program offering inexpensive oil to Caribbean nations .
The offer came during a visit Monday to Caracas by Haiti 's President-Elect Rene Preval .
Mr. Preval met with Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez .
They discussed Haiti 's inclusion in Venezuela 's Petrocaribe program which offers generous payment options to Caribbean countries for the purchase of Venezuelan oil .
During the meeting , Mr. Chavez said Venezuela would also donate diesel fuel for use by schools and hospitals in Haiti .
Mr. Preval was elected in February following a campaign of promises to improve social conditions and education for Haitians .
He will be inaugurated on May 14 .
A British diplomat has met again with Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh to discuss the case of kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston .
British consul Richard Makepeace met in Gaza Tuesday with Mr. Haniyeh , of the Islamic militant group Hamas .
The two also held talks on the kidnapping last month despite a British boycott of Palestinian officials from Hamas .
British officials say the talks do not represent a change in British policy , and are only focused on the case of Johnston , who was kidnapped in Gaza on March 12 .
It is not clear who the kidnappers are .
An aide to Mr. Haniyeh said the Palestinian government hopes for a resolution of the case soon .
Johnston was the only Western reporter permanently based in the Gaza Strip at the time of his abduction .
NATO says an explosion in Afghanistan 's eastern province of Ghazni has killed two soldiers and a civilian interpreter .
In a statement released Wednesday , NATO officials say the soldiers and the interpreter were on patrol Tuesday when they were hit by the blast .
NATO says a third soldier was wounded .
NATO did not release the nationalities of the soldiers .
Meanwhile , German officials Wednesday announced the arrest of two men they say were planning an attack on a NATO base in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif .
Officials say Afghan authorities stopped the men - from Pakistan and Tajikistan - last week in a car stuffed with explosives .
A defiant Iranian president says the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency can issue as many resolutions as it likes , but says it can not prevent Iranian progress .
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke Sunday , one day after the International Atomic Energy Agency voted overwhelmingly to report Iran to the U.N. Security Council over its suspect nuclear program .
Iran insists its nuclear program is peaceful , but Western governments accuse Tehran of seeking to build an atomic bomb .
In comments reported by the Iranian news agency , the Iranian president pointed to the West and said " it is you who have atomic weapons and should be disarmed . "
He said Iran has no need for a nuclear arsenal .
Earlier , the Iranian Foreign Ministry confirmed that Tehran has stopped all cooperation with the IAEA and will go forward with plans to enrich uranium - a process that can be used either to make an atomic bomb or to generate electricity .
The United Nations Security Council has called on Lebanon to expand its security presence in the south , following the withdrawal of Syrian troops .
In a resolution passed to Friday , the Council said Lebanese troops must show they can maintain security in the country , especially along the southern boundary with Israel .
The measure condemned violence between Israeli troops and Hezbollah militants in the area , including a June incident that killed three people .
The Security Council also agreed to extend until January a U.N. mission in Lebanon , which includes some two thousand peacekeepers .
That U.N. force was created in 1978 to confirm Israel 's withdrawal from Lebanon , after Israeli troops invaded the country in search of Palestinian militants .
An Indian court has sentenced a Pakistani man to death for the militant attack on New Delhi 's famous 17th century Red Fort five years ago .
Muhammad Arif was handed the death sentence Monday for his role in the December 2000 attack that killed three people .
The victims - a soldier and two civilians - died when Arif and five other militants sneaked into the complex and opened fire .
The Red Fort was a 17th century palace for Muslim Mughal emperor Shah Jehan .
The fort is now a symbol of India 's independence .
Many speeches and official pronouncements are given at its gates .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least 21 people at a Baghdad market .
They say 25 others were wounded in the blast in a mostly Shi'ite Muslim part of Dora - a neighborhood in southern Baghdad .
Elsewhere in the capital Tuesday , a roadside bomb killed an Iraqi policeman , but an Iraqi Cabinet minister , Suhaila Abed Jaafar , minister of displacement and migration escaped unhurt from another bomb blast .
The attacks came as Britain 's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw met in Baghdad with President Jalal Talabani about the slow progress in forming a new Iraqi government .
Straw stressed the government should not be dominated by one religious group .
But Iraq 's Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari said choosing a government is an internal affair .
Meanwhile , Jordanian officials have announced the release of a Jordanian embassy driver who had been held hostage in Iraq since December .
Top-seeded Lleyton Hewitt of Australia and number-two Dominik Hrbaty of Slovakia have advanced to the second round of the International men 's hardcourt tennis championships in Adelaide , Australia .
Hewitt dropped the opening set Tuesday before bouncing back to beat Jan Hernych of the Czech Republic , 4-6 , 6-2 , 6-4 .
The second-seeded Hrbaty had an easier time , topping Rameez Junaid of Australia , 6-3 , 7-5 .
In other matches involving seeded players , number-five James Blake of the United States defeated Alberto Martin of Spain , 6-3 , 6-3 .
But eighth-seeded Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina was upset , losing to Ivo Karlovic of Croatia , 6-3 , 3-6 , 6-1 .
Unseeded players advancing included Australia 's Mark Philippoussis , Florian Mayer of Germany , Britain 's Andy Murray , Andreas Seppi of Italy , Frenchman Florent Serra , Jarkko Nieminen of Finland and Danish player Kenneth Carlsen .
A U.S. soldier charged in the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal in Iraq has pleaded guilty to one count of dereliction of duty .
Military officials announced Tuesday that Army Specialist Megan Ambuhl entered her plea last Saturday at a summary court-martial in Baghdad .
Army officials also say she was demoted to private and docked half a month 's pay .
The 30-year-old woman is the third soldier from a military police company in Maryland to plead guilty to charges stemming from the scandal .
Officials say she failed to prevent or report the abuse by other U.S. soldiers .
She could have faced at least seven years in prison on other charges .
The scandal erupted in April when photographs of U.S. soldiers taunting and humiliating naked Iraqi prisoners became public , sparking worldwide condemnation .
U.S. Congressman Tom DeLay predicts he will be cleared of a criminal conspiracy charge , and that he will soon be reinstated as majority leader in the House of Representatives .
The Republican congressman was speaking on the television program " Fox News Sunday , " where he called the indictment against him " manufactured " and " frivolous . "
But another Republican lawmaker says he is no longer comfortable with Mr. Delay as majority leader .
Speaking on CNN Sunday , Congressman Christopher Shays cited continual acts of Mr. Delay 's that in his words , " border and sometimes go beyond " what is ethical .
Mr. DeLay stepped down as majority leader Thursday , after a grand jury in his home state of Texas indicted him for violating a state campaign-finance law .
The allegation centers on the misuse of corporate donations .
The Los Angeles Times is reporting that the Bush Administration has forged a strong intelligence partnership with Sudan , and the African nation has become an ally in the U.S.-led war on terror .
The newspaper cites U.S. government sources as saying Khartoum has provided access to terror suspects and has shared intelligence data with the United States , even though it remains on the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism .
The report says the Central Intelligence Agency has flown Sudan 's intelligence chief to Washington as recently as last week .
In exchange for its collaboration , the Times says Sudan is seeking to be removed from the list of state sponsors of terrorism and for Washington to lift economic sanctions .
A decade ago , Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network were based in Sudan .
Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $ 27 a share , or $ 212 mi llion .
The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end .
Advance copies of the United Nations ' internal audit of its oil-for-food program reportedly show that U.N. officials wasted money and overlooked massive overcharges by contractors .
News reports published Sunday in the United States say the audits , part of an extensive independent report to be released on Monday , criticize a former top aide to Secretary-General Kofi Annan , Benon Sevan , and the U.N. office he headed that ran the oil-for-food program .
However , the advance portions of the audit described by The New York Times and Associated Press do not reveal any systematic corruption or bribery .
Mr. Annan named an independent panel to investigate the program following allegations that billions of dollars were diverted by some members of the former Saddam Hussein regime and other corrupt officials .
The program was created in 1996 to help the people of Iraq after the first Gulf War .
Former U.S. central bank chief Paul Volcker heads the independent commission .
He said last week that no clear-cut evidence of wrongdoing has been found .
Russia 's lower house of parliament , the Duma , has ratified treaties with the Georgian breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia .
The widely-expected endorsements clear the way for Moscow to keep thousands of troops in the pro-Russian territories .
Duma lawmakers voted unanimously Wednesday for the so-called friendship and mutual assistance treaties , which formalize economic , diplomatic and military ties .
Moscow recognized the two regions as independent countries in August , shortly after Russian forces swept into Georgia to counter a Georgian military effort to reclaim South Ossetia by force .
The invasion drew strong condemnations from the West , where some governments threatened to respond with sanctions on Moscow .
Moscow says it will station 7,600 troops in the territories .
Earlier this week , Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow opposes the deployment of European Union monitors in the region .
He said Russian forces will assume responsibility for security in the territories .
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel , of which the crew and passengers were all drowned .
He inveighed against the injustice of Providence , which would for the sake of one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent persons to perish .
As he was indulging in these reflections , he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants , near whose nest he was standing .
One of them climbed up and stung him , and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot .
Mercury presented himself , and striking the Philosopher with his wand , said , " And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence , who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants ? '
Iranian news media report that armed bandits have taken 30 people hostage in the southeast of the country .
The reports say the bandits blocked a road and opened fire on vehicles before abducting the victims Sunday .
The incident took place in Sistan-Baluchestan .
Few other details were immediately available .
Burundi 's army says it killed at least 17 National Liberation Forces rebel fighters in recent clashes .
At least one soldier and a civilian also were killed in fighting that began late Friday in a village west of the capital , Bujumbura
The government says FNL rebels were robbing the village when the army intervened to stop them .
The FNL signed a peace agreement with the government in July 2006 , but the accord was broken about a year later .
Israeli soldiers raided a West Bank refugee camp , Friday , sparking a shootout that killed two Palestinian militants and badly wounded another .
An Israeli military spokeswoman says Palestinians fired at troops who entered the Balata refugee camp at Nablus to arrest militants in the pre-dawn operation .
The fighting , part of a week-long Israeli offensive against militants , came a day after Palestinian authorities in the Gaza Strip began enforcing a ban on public displays of weapons in a key step toward imposing order .
Friday 's bloodshed came hours after Palestinians finished voting in local elections in the West Bank widely seen as a test of the political clout for the militant group Hamas ahead of a parliamentary ballot in January .
Unofficial results show the ruling Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas won control of at least 61 of the 104 local councils , and Hamas took 28 .
Of all the people enjoying a so-called white Christmas Saturday , none appreciate it more than the folks of Victoria , Texas .
The usually balmy town near the Gulf of Mexico was hit with an unprecedented 30 centimeters of snow overnight .
The U.S. National Weather Service says until today , Victoria had not seen a measurable snowfall since 1973 .
The last time the town of 60,000 enjoyed a white Christmas was in 1917 , 86 years ago .
Residents will only have about 24 hours to build a snowman , as Sunday 's forecast calls for the return of sunny skies and high temperatures well above freezing .
The global human rights organization , Amnesty International says that HIV and AIDS are devastating poor women and children in South Africa .
In a report released in London , Amnesty says that poverty , gender inequality and unemployment remain major contributing factors .
Pop Singer Annie Lennox is highlighting the issue with her new charity tune called " Sing . "
On a recent trip to Africa , she says she learned how the disease affects women -- especially pregnant mothers and their unborn children -- much more than it does men .
VOA 's Mandy Clark reports .
U.S. private employers added 71,000 jobs in July , indicating the U.S. labor market and the economy at large are slow to recover from recession .
A report Friday from the Labor Department shows the unemployment rate stayed unchanged at 9.5 percent .
Economists closely watch the private payrolls figure , because private companies do the bulk of hiring in the United States .
Employment is also a big indicator of consumer spending , as those who are unemployed or worried about job stability tend to spend less .
The country lost jobs overall in July , due in large part to cuts at the U.S. Census Bureau .
The government agency cut about 144,000 temporary employees who were hired for only a couple of months to conduct the once-a-decade population count .
The Iranian government has closed an official newspaper because of a cartoon the paper ran last Friday .
State television quotes the country 's chief prosecutor Saeed Mortazavi Tuesday as saying the paper 's cartoonist Mana Neyestani and one of its editors have been detained .
The cartoon , which poked fun at ethnic Azeris , sparked riots in the northwestern city of Tabriz , the capital of Eastern Azerbaijan province .
The cartoon portrayed an Azeri as a cockroach who was speaking Azeri .
On Monday , rioting Azeris pelted government buildings with stones .
Police used tear gas to disperse them .
About 25 percent of Iran 's population is Azeri .
Azeris speak a language close to Turkish .
President Bush says the United States needs better intelligence efforts to make gains in its global war on terrorism .
In an interview with CNN , the president said Tuesday that human intelligence efforts need to be improved .
He said the ability to read the enemy 's mail and hear its phone calls would make a difference in fighting terrorism .
Mr. Bush said a commission has been formed to determine how best to improve human intelligence gathering .
During the interview , President Bush said the United States has not done as good a job in promoting American values as propagandists have in depicting America as a hateful place .
Mr. Bush also acknowledged he has made difficult decisions , including the one to invade Iraq , that have hindered American diplomacy in the Middle East .
But , the president predicted that a free country will emerge in Iraq , proving the merit of his policies there .
Israel 's government is set to approve a plan that aims to turn the country into a space superpower .
The Jerusalem Post reported Friday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to approve plans designed to increase sales of locally made space platforms to nearly $ 8 billion a year .
The newspaper said the multi-year plan also includes increased spending on space research and development , focusing on mini-satellites as Israel 's primary market .
The report quotes the head of the Defense Ministry 's Space Division as saying Israel has the capability to carve out at least 5 percent of the international space market , estimated to total $ 250 billion a year .
The report said Israel is in talks with several countries and defense companies about the possibility of space collaboration .
The European Union has opened membership talks with Croatia after the United Nations ' chief war crimes prosecutor said the Balkan country is now cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw led a brief ceremony early Tuesday formally opening the talks .
Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader attended the event .
The European Union postponed membership talks with Croatia in March when U.N. war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte said Zagreb was not doing enough to find indicted war crimes suspect General Ante Gotovina .
Ms. del Ponte said Monday Croatia is now fully cooperating with the tribunal , but the EU ministers warn talks could be called off again if Zagreb does not continue its compliance with the Hague court .
Croatia hopes to join the European Union in 2009 .
Thousands of motorcycle riders are in Washington for a parade known as " Rolling Thunder , " which comes a day before the Memorial Day holiday honoring U.S. military personnel killed in battle .
The bikers are visiting the Vietnam Veterans memorial Sunday and are then gathering at the Lincoln memorial where there will be speakers .
A musical tribute to Veterans also is to be held today , which will include pop group Paul Revere and The Raiders and singer Nancy Sinatra .
The " Rolling Thunder " event specifically honors missing U.S. soldiers and prisoners of war .
The U.S. State Department has expressed its sympathy and solidarity with Poland over the death this week of its first post-communist Foreign Minister , Krzysztof Skubiszewski .
State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley says Skubiszewski paved the way for Poland 's eventual membership in NATO and the strong alliance between Poland and the United States .
He called Skubiszewski a great statesman and visionary .
Skubiszewski died Monday at age 83 .
No cause of death was announced .
He was Poland 's first foreign minister after the fall of communism in 1989 .
He held the post until 1993 .
Skubiszewski opened talks with NATO and worked towards reconciliation with Germany .
A new report from the International Monetary Fund says global economic growth will slow more than one percent this year .
The IMF study says global growth will decline to 3.7 percent in 2008 and stay at about the same level the following year .
The economists blame the slowdown on problems in advanced economies , particularly the United States .
But they say developing nations are weathering this economic down-turn better than they have similar incidents in the past because they are better integrated into the world economy .
Many developing nations have benefited from major price increases for the commodities they export , and have worked to diversify their economies to ease the ups and downs that affect commodity markets .
Iraqi officials say insurgents carried out two separate suicide car bombings Thursday , killing at least eight people .
South of Kirkuk ( in Tuz Khormato ) , five people were killed and 16 injured when a suicide bomber detonated his vehicle near an Iraqi army checkpoint .
A second suicide bomber struck in the city of Samarra , killing at least three people when his car blew up near a joint U.S. - Iraqi patrol .
The attacks come as hundreds of thousands of Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims gather under tight security in the city of Karbala to mark Arbaeen .
Many pilgrims have walked to the Shi'ite holy city from towns across Iraq to mark the end of the 40-day mourning period for Imam Hussein , who was killed in a battle nearly 14 centuries ago .
Hussein was the grandson of the Prophet Mohammad , and is revered by Shi'ites .
Israeli officials said they plan to make it harder for the Arabic television network al-Jazeera to operate in Israel and the West Bank .
Media reports said Israel will not renew the work visas of some Israeli-based al-Jazeera employees , and that the network 's reporters will have less access to news conferences and briefings .
Israeli officials tied the move to the decision last month by Qatar , which owns al-Jazeera , to suspend relations with Israel to protest its offensive in the Gaza Strip .
An Israeli official said Qatar created obstacles by closing Israel 's trade office in Doha .
Qatar had been the only Gulf Arab state to have trade ties with Israel .
A manuscript of composer Ludwig van Beethoven 's " Gross Fuge " has sold at a London auction house for $ 1.9 million .
Sotheby auctioneers say an anonymous buyer purchased the manuscript , which was discovered in a library at the Palmer Theological Seminary in Philadelphia .
The 80-page document , first performed in 1826 , is a piano duet version of Beethoven 's string quartet in B flat .
It is written in brown and black ink and includes annotations in pencil and red crayon .
The head of Sotheby 's manuscript department says the rediscovery of the document will allow a complete reassessment of what he called " extraordinary music . "
Beethoven , who continued to work as he slowly went deaf , wrote the work in the years prior to his death in 1827 .
Diplomats at the U.N. nuclear agency say the United States and its European allies have agreed to suspend their push to refer Iran to the Security Council for possible sanctions over its nuclear activities .
The diplomats , speaking on condition of anonymity , said U.S. and European officials agreed to the delay to give Russia more time to persuade Iran to compromise on its nuclear activities .
They spoke Monday , ahead of this week 's meeting of the board of governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna .
The West accuses Iran of seeking to build nuclear weapons - a charge Iran denies .
Meanwhile , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says Iran must meet its obligations and allow international inspectors to visit its nuclear facilities .
On Sunday , the Iranian parliament voted to bar such visits if Iran is referred to the Security Council .
Egyptian authorities say a construction company bus driver is in custody after he opened fire on a busload of workers , killing six and wounding others , near Cairo .
Egyptian construction firm Arab Contractors says Mahmoud Sweilam , a 20-year veteran of the company , surrendered after the deadly rampage early Tuesday .
Authorities say Sweilam was driving more than 20 company employees to their work site when he suddenly stopped the bus and began shooting at them with an automatic rifle .
Police are still investigating a motive for the attack .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard has confirmed that U.S. intelligence agencies had restricted his country 's access to classified material on the war in Iraq , forcing him to repeatedly appeal to President Bush for access .
Mr. Howard says , prior to 2005 , the U.S. Defense Department had restricted Australian military access to vital information on Iraq .
Mr. Bush signed an order in July 2004 granting Australia and Britain special access to intelligence for use in planning combat and counter-terrorism operations .
But Mr. Howard said U.S. agencies initially resisted the order because of their reluctance to share information .
The Australian leader says the U.S. intelligence restrictions were lifted last year , after he again appealed to Mr. Bush to deliver on his commitments .
The Ugandan military says it attacked a hideout of rebel leader Joseph Kony in southern Sudan this week , killing four of his bodyguards .
A military spokesman , Lieutenant Chris Magezi , says soldiers clashed with rebels commanded by Kony southwest of Juba on Tuesday .
The spokesman says one Ugandan soldier was wounded in the battle .
He says Kony and his fighters are now fleeing a Ugandan offensive , heading toward the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Sudan allows Ugandan forces to pursue Kony and other leaders of the rebel Lord 's Resistance Army on its territory .
The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Kony and four other LRA leaders .
The group is notorious for its brutality and use of child soldiers in northern Uganda .
The group 's 20-year uprising has displaced more than 1.5 million people .
Iraqi police say a string of bomb attacks in Baghdad killed at least 27 people and wounded scores more Thursday .
Police say a car bomb in eastern Baghdad killed at least five people , while seven died in another car bombing in a largely Shi'ite neighborhood in northwestern Baghdad .
Hours earlier , two bombs went off in an eastern part of the capital .
One bomb killed 13 people at a crowded market .
The other bomb killed two people near a police patrol .
The explosions are the latest in the almost daily bomb blasts and other attacks in Baghdad and across Iraq .
On Wednesday , insurgents killed at least 10 people , including six police officers and a Sunni Arab cleric .
A human rights group says Belarus has launched criminal probes against at least 18 leading opposition figures over their alleged involvement in post-election riots .
The organization Vesna said Wednesday that those accused -- including seven of the nine candidates who ran against the country 's authoritarian leader -- face up to 15 years in prison if convicted .
Overall , Belarusian authorities jailed more than 600 people in the wake of Sunday 's protests against the re-election of President Alexander Lukashenko .
In the election , Mr. Lukashenko won a fourth consecutive term , capturing 80 percent of the vote .
No other candidate won more than three percent .
More than 30,000 demonstrators took to the streets after polls closed to protest what they said was a fraudulent election .
European observers and U.S. officials also have strongly criticized the election process .
Police in Nepal armed with batons dispersed a protest Tuesday by Tibetan refugees and monks in front of the Chinese Embassy .
About 100 protesters in Kathmandu were loaded into trucks and vans and sent to detention centers .
There have been almost daily demonstrations in Nepal against China since March 10 , when protests began in Tibet 's capital , Lhasa .
At least 400 protesters were detained in Nepal Monday .
The U.N. human rights office in Nepal has said it is deeply concerned at the arbitrary arrests and detentions .
Nepal 's border with China in the Himalayas is a key route for Tibetans fleeing Chinese rule in the region .
Hundreds of people angry over the rising cost of food demonstrated in eastern Afghanistan Tuesday .
Protesters blocked a key road connecting the town of Jalalabad to the capital , Kabul .
They demanded action from the government to bring down skyrocketing prices .
Earlier , the Afghan government announced it is setting aside $ 50 million to buy wheat from other countries , including Kazakhstan and neighboring Pakistan .
Many demonstrators expressed anger with Pakistan - upon which Afghans are heavily reliant for food imports .
Pakistan has recently slowed its exports due to its own concerns about rising food prices .
Elsewhere , in the western Afghan province of Herat , authorities say they believe militants have abducted two foreign employees of a U.S. security company .
Police say an Indian and a Nepalese worker disappeared Monday evening while traveling in the Adraskan district .
Their driver also is missing .
The American fast food chain KFC is famous around the world for its fried chicken .
KFC stands for Kentucky Fried Chicken and founded by Harlan David Sanders , better know to patrons as Colonel Sanders .
In Kabul , Afghanistan , another KFC restaurant is doing a brisk business .
But this KFC is short for Kabul Fried Chicken and serves kabobs and pizza alongside the chicken .
Rahimgul Sarawan reports from Kabul that while this KFC was inspired by Colonel Sanders , that is where the association ends .
Brian Allen narrates .
The international airport in the western U.S. city of Denver , Colorado , is expected to begin limited operations Friday , after two days of being shut down during the busiest travel days of the holiday season .
Thousands of people were stranded at the airport Wednesday when snowstorms hit the U.S. central plains region .
Some areas were buried under as much as 61 centimeters of snow .
In Colorado - a mountainous state where heavy snow is common - the storm shut down not just the airport but several major highways and postal delivery .
Airport authorities say they will open two runways Friday after they are swept clear of snow .
But they are warning passengers to expect further delays as the airlines now deal with a two-day backlog of passengers .
Many travelers are rushing to get to the homes of friends and family before Christmas Day on Monday December 25 .
Thousands of Afghans have staged a peaceful protest against the killing of a prominent pro-government Muslim cleric in a mosque bomb blast .
At least 5,000 people Sunday took to the streets in the eastern Afghan province of Khost , where Mullah Ahmad Khan was killed Friday during midday prayers .
At least 15 worshippers were wounded in the blast .
The protesters urged the government to provide better security for religious leaders .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
But authorities blame Taleban insurgents who have in the past killed several influential clerics who had denounced the militants and expressed support for President Hamid Karzai .
Police have made a drug raid on athletes for the first time in the history of the Olympic games .
Italian authorities late Saturday and early Sunday morning seized materials in a surprise sweep through the living quarters of the Austrian biathlon and cross country teams .
While Italian police searched the residences , the International Olympic Committee conducted unannounced , out-of-competition drug tests on at least six Austrian cross-country skiers and four biathletes .
The involvement of Italian police is consistent with the country 's anti-doping laws , which treat doping as a criminal offense .
The probe began when the World Anti-Doping Agency discovered blood-doping equipment in Austria connected to Walter Mayer .
He was banned by the IOC from the Turin Olympics and the 2010 Vancouver Games for suspicion of performing blood transfusions at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games .
But Mayer remains the head coach of both the Austrian cross country and the biathlon teams .
The U.S. Senate is to vote later Thursday , on an immigration reform bill that would toughen border security and give millions of illegals a chance to become American citizens .
On Wednesday , the Senate voted to limit debate on the controversial legislation .
Two other provisions in the bill would create a so-called guest worker program and would deport illegal immigrants who have been in the country for fewer than five years .
If the Senate passes the legislation , it will have to be reconciled with a bill passed by the House of Representatives last December .
That bill emphasized border security and would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally .
The issue has sparked widespread demonstrations across the United States .
Afghan warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum has narrowly escaped an assassination attempt that wounded 20 other people .
Officials say a suicide bomber blew himself up near the general outside a northern mosque where the warlord had been praying for the Eid al-Adha Muslim festival .
General Dostum says he believes al-Qaida was behind the attack .
But the Associated Press quotes a Taleban leader saying the Taleban carried out the attack .
Meanwhile a statement purportedly from Taleban leader Mullah Omar dismissed reports that the radical Islamic movement 's fighters were willing to lay down arms in exchange for amnesty .
A statement to news agencies says the Taleban will not enter into a dialogue with the Afghan government as long as foreign soldiers remain in Afghanistan .
The United States and Israel have agreed to work together on developing a new missile defense system that would counter both long-range ballistic missiles as well as short-range rockets .
U.S Defense Secretary Robert Gates and his Israeli counterpart , Ehud Barak , agreed during talks Tuesday at the Pentagon to form a committee to work on the proposed system .
A Pentagon spokesman , Geoff Morrell , said Israel wants to be able to counter missile attacks possibly from Iran as well as rockets fired from Palestinian territories .
Israel has been facing regular rocket fire from Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip since withdrawing from the territory in 2005 .
Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th century , initial attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved unsuccessful due to a combination of factors , including : disease from mosquito-infested swamps , brutal heat , resistance by natives , and pirate raids .
It was not until 1563 that a permanent settlement of Cartago was established in the cooler , fertile central highlands .
The area remained a colony for some two and a half centuries .
In 1821 , Costa Rica became one of several Central American provinces that jointly declared their independence from Spain .
Two years later it joined the United Provinces of Central America , but this federation disintegrated in 1838 , at which time Costa Rica proclaimed its sovereignty and independence .
Since the late 19th century , only two brief periods of violence have marred the country 's democratic development .
In 1949 , Costa Rica dissolved its armed forces .
Although it still maintains a large agricultural sector , Costa Rica has expanded its economy to include strong technology and tourism industries .
The standard of living is relatively high .
Land ownership is widespread .
Nepal 's Maoist rebels have called off a traffic ban on major roads leading into the capital , Kathmandu , that disrupted supplies to the city for nearly a week .
The ban was called off Wednesday , after pleas from human rights groups and a mass demonstration this week by city residents demanding an end to the increasingly bloody conflict between Maoist rebels and security forces .
The rebels imposed the ban last week to protest the alleged killings of rebel activists in government custody and to press for information about those who are missing .
Violence has escalated ahead of a January 13 deadline set by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for the Maoists to resume peace talks .
The rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
More than 10,000 people have been killed in the violence .
The U.S.-led coalition said in a statement Tuesday that its forces killed 43 militants in southern Afghanistan .
The Afghan and U.S.-led troops battled the militants Sunday in Qalat district of Zabul province .
The statement said a joint patrol was ambushed with sniper fire , machine guns and heavy weapons from militants in multiple locations .
The coalition said its forces fired back with small arms and rocket propelled grenades .
They also called in air support .
The statement said no Afghan or U.S.-led troops were killed or wounded in the attack .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he is " putting on the brakes " on his socialist revolution after voters rejected his plans to reform the constitution .
Mr. Chavez said on his weekly broadcast Sunday it would be a mistake at this time to try to quicken the pace of his plans to turn Venezuela into a socialist haven .
He said he will evaluate the results of the referendum before deciding how to proceed with his pro-socialist plans .
He also said he will focus on regional elections later this year as one way to consolidate Socialist party power .
Venezuelan voters last month turned down the constitutional reform package which included making Mr. Chavez president for life .
A group led by terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has claimed responsibility for Monday 's assassination of Baghdad 's deputy police chief .
The group , calling itself the " al-Qaida Organization of Holy War in Iraq , " made the claim on an Islamist web site , just hours after gunmen shot down Brigadier Amer Nayef and his police officer son .
Iraqi officials say the two men were killed as they left their home in Baghdad 's southern Dora district .
The assassination comes six days after insurgents gunned down Baghdad 's provincial governor and six of his bodyguards as they rode to work .
Elsewhere in the capital , U.S. authorities say two U.S. soldiers were killed and four others wounded when their armored vehicle struck a roadside bomb .
Separately , authorities say a suicide car bomber rammed a car into a police station in southern Baghdad , killing at least three people .
The United Kingdom has historically played a leading role in developing parliamentary democracy and in advancing literature and science .
At its zenith in the 19th century , the British Empire stretched over one-fourth of the earth 's surface .
The first half of the 20th century saw the UK 's strength seriously depleted in two world wars and the Irish republic withdraw from the union .
The second half witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself into a modern and prosperous European nation .
As one of five permanent members of the UN Security Council , a founding member of NATO , and of the Commonwealth , the UK pursues a global approach to foreign policy .
The UK is also an active member of the EU , although it chose to remain outside the Economic and Monetary Union .
The Scottish Parliament , the National Assembly for Wales , and the Northern Ireland Assembly were established in 1999 .
The latter was suspended until May 2007 due to wrangling over the peace process , but devolution was fully completed in March 2010 .
The U.S. military in Iraq says American troops have detained six suspects in connection with last week 's assassination of Baghdad provincial governor Ali al-Haidari .
Acting on a tip from residents , soldiers seized the suspects early Tuesday in a house in the same western Baghdad neighborhood where the governor was gunned down .
Meanwhile , near the northern city of Mosul , two Iraqi National Guards were killed and two wounded in a car bomb attack Wednesday .
A similar attack in the area Tuesday killed three other guardsmen .
Iraqi officials , police and national guards have been prime targets of insurgents who are seeking to further destabilize the country before the January 30 elections .
Despite the violence , interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi and President Bush have said the vote for a national assembly must go ahead .
Egyptian officials say rain and sandstorms that battered the country for several days have killed at least 31 people .
The hardest-hit areas were in northern Egypt , where the storms brought heavy rains and wind .
At least 13 of the deaths came in a six-story factory building collapse in the northern port city of Alexandria .
Building collapses blamed on poor construction and failure to follow building rules are relatively frequent in Egypt .
Officials said Monday they had reopened ports on the Red Sea , which had been closed because of the storms .
Officials also blamed the weather for poor visibility that led to traffic accidents .
Sudanese officials say they are readying trials against suspects accused of rape and murder in the western Darfur region .
Authorities say the trials may include government officials and security forces in the troubled area .
Sudan 's Justice Minister , Ali Mohamed Osman Yassin , told Reuters news agency Monday that 15 police and security agents have been detained for alleged abuses .
He vowed to continue an investigation into human rights violations and crimes against humanity in Darfur .
The United States and other countries have been pressing Sudan 's government to end violence in Darfur and punish those responsible .
The U.N. Security Council this week is to consider a French proposal to send Darfur suspects to the International Criminal Court .
Sudan 's foreign minister , Mustapha Osman Ismail , says his country would refuse the measure , if passed .
Police in northern Iraq say security forces have killed at least two people and wounded several others who were protesting a rise in fuel prices and lack of basic services in the city .
Authorities say Sunday 's riot broke out in a mainly Kurdish district of Kirkuk , as angry protesters set fire to several gas stations and an oil company building in the city .
Police later imposed a curfew .
In Baghdad , a bomb blast near one of Iraq 's largest oil refineries triggered a pipeline fire that threatened to worsen the country 's oil crisis .
The bombing was the second in recent days .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say at least 11 car bombs - most of them in Baghdad - exploded Sunday , wounding at least 20 people .
A series of rebel attacks in Iraq have killed some 25 people as U.S. officials pledge to investigate recent " friendly fire " killings .
A suicide attack killed at least 15 people and wounded nearly two dozen more north of Baghdad .
Nearby in Baquba , rebel attacks on Iraqi soldiers and police killed at least 10 people .
Also Monday , Iraqi officials issued new photos of wanted Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al Zarqawi , showing him with short hair and a closely cropped beard .
His group reportedly claimed responsibility for several of Monday 's attacks .
Also today , Bulgaria 's defense minister Nikolai Svinarov says an investigation shows U.S. troops were probably responsible for the shooting death of a Bulgarian soldier last Friday .
That same day , U.S. troops shot dead an Italian intelligence agent at a checkpoint .
U.S. officials have ordered investigations into both incidents .
The party of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon votes Thursday , on forming a new coalition government to advance plans for an Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Sharon asked members to approve the union with the rival Labor Party , saying it will help the government gain enough votes to approve the pullout .
Meanwhile , Israeli military officials say troops killed five Palestinians in separate incidents overnight near the Gaza Strip 's border with Egypt .
Israeli soldiers opened fire on a group of people moving in a forbidden area near Rafah , killing three of them .
Military officials say the troops suspected the men were arms smugglers or terrorists planning an attack .
Israeli forces also shot and killed one Palestinian and injured two others spotted in a separate area near the Gaza border .
One of those injured later died at a hospital .
The Indonesian government and rebels from Aceh province plan to sign a formal peace deal on August 15 .
The agreement will bring an end to a nearly three-decade war between the Free Aceh Movement and the government in Jakarta .
A joint statement following peace talks in Helsinki , Finland , Sunday says the agreement will bring " a peaceful , comprehensive , and sustainable " solution to the conflict in Aceh , which has cost some 12,000 lives since 1976 .
Though details of the agreement have not been released , the two sides say it covers political participation , human rights , an amnesty , and security arrangements in the province .
Peace efforts gained momentum this year following the December tsunami that devastated Indonesia 's Sumatra island , where Aceh is located .
The United States has stopped accepting requests for H1-B specialty work visas because its quota of 65,000 visas for 2006 has been reached .
The government 's immigration services agency said Friday , any further visa requests that are received will have to wait until late next year .
The specialty work visa program allows American companies to hire skilled workers from abroad with advanced skills , including scientists , engineers , or computer programmers .
The 65,000 visas granted annually normally can be extended for up to six years .
Congress decides how many visas are to be issued .
In addition to 65,000 regular H1-B visas , It also has approved an additional 20,000 work permits each year for foreigners who hold an advanced degree ( master 's or doctorate ) from an American college or university .
The White House will become a pink house on Thursday , as it is bathed in pink lighting to call attention to the fight against breast cancer .
U.S. President Barack Obama announced on the social networking site Twitter that the executive mansion will be lit in pink Thursday evening in recognition of October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month .
Earlier this month , Mr. Obama signed a proclamation for breast cancer awareness month .
It is one of numerous public efforts in October in the U.S. aimed at fighting the disease .
Last year , a large pink ribbon was hung outside the White House .
The American Cancer Society says there are about 40,000 breast cancer deaths annually in the U.S.
The World Health Organization says breast cancer claims 519,000 lives worldwide each year .
Russian police have detained at least 30 anti-government protesters in Moscow , including a prize-winning 82-year-old human rights activist .
Opposition demonstrators gathered in central Moscow 's Triumfalnaya square Thursday in support of their constitutional right to freedom of assembly .
They shouted slogans against Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin , saying he has reversed democratic reform .
News reports from Moscow say 82-year-old Russian dissident Lyudmila Alexeyeva was among those arrested .
She is one of this year 's recipients of the European Parliament 's Sakharov prize for freedom of thought .
She is a founding member of the Moscow Helsinki group , one of Russia 's oldest human rights organizations .
A White House statement issued Thursday says the Obama administration is dismayed that Russian authorities prevented citizens from exercising their right to assemble peacefully .
The statement says freedom of speech and assembly are universal rights that all governments should recognize and defend .
Iraqi police said a suicide car bomber has killed 10 people in Kirkuk .
Police said the attacker appeared to target a group of police officers protecting the northern city 's oil infrastructure .
Officials said 22 other people were injured in Wednesday 's attack .
Tensions remain high in Kirkuk , whose status has yet to be resolved .
Iraqi Kurds , Arabs , and Turkmen lay competing claims to the oil-rich city .
Violence has dropped across much of the country , but al-Qaida in Iraq maintains a foothold in areas across the north .
A British court has remanded into custody the first suspect formally charged in connection with the failed July 21 bombings on the London transport system .
Ismael Abdurahman , who appeared in a London court Thursday , is accused of withholding information that may have helped police find those involved in terrorism .
Meanwhile , thousands of British police are patrolling the streets of London , four weeks after the July 7 bomb attacks on the city 's transit system that killed 56 people , including four suicide bombers .
In another development , an Italian court has scheduled an August 17 extradition hearing for one of the suspects in the July 21 failed London bombings .
British authorities have alleged that Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussein , fled to Italy after he and three other men tried to set off bombs .
Mr. Issac , a British citizen of Ethiopian descent , was arrested last Friday .
Carib Indians inhabited Grenada when COLUMBUS discovered the island in 1498 , but it remained uncolonized for more than a century .
The French settled Grenada in the 17th century , established sugar estates , and imported large numbers of African slaves .
Britain took the island in 1762 and vigorously expanded sugar production .
In the 19th century , cacao eventually surpassed sugar as the main export crop ; in the 20th century , nutmeg became the leading export .
In 1967 , Britain gave Grenada autonomy over its internal affairs .
Full independence was attained in 1974 making Grenada one of the smallest independent countries in the Western Hemisphere .
Grenada was seized by a Marxist military council on 19 October 1983 .
Six days later the island was invaded by US forces and those of six other Caribbean nations , which quickly captured the ringleaders and their hundreds of Cuban advisers .
Free elections were reinstituted the following year and have continued since that time .
Hurricane Ivan struck Grenada in September of 2004 causing severe damage .
An international development group is working to raise $ 2 billion in aid to help rebuild and reform Haiti 's education system .
The Inter-American Development Bank is leading a proposed five-year effort to train teachers , improve facilities and adopt a national curriculum .
More than 4,000 schools were damaged or destroyed during the earthquake in January that killed more than 200,000 people .
The IDB says that before the earthquake , only half of Haiti 's children of primary school age were enrolled in classes .
Haitian President Rene Preval announced the plan Saturday along with IDB President Luis Alberto Moreno .
Subsistence fishing and commercial trawling occur within refuge waters .
At least 13 people were killed in Indian Kashmir Wednesday in a series of violent incidents involving Indian security forces and militants .
Indian officials say several gunbattles erupted when police and soldiers raided suspected rebel hideouts in the Udhampur and Poonch districts .
They say seven militants were killed in the clashes , along with two Indian security personnel .
In another incident , India 's military says four youths were killed in crossfire as Indian troops battled militants in the Kupwara district of northern Kashmir .
The civilian deaths triggered protests by residents of Kupwara against the security forces .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is to hold talks with Kashmiri political leaders on Saturday to try to stop the violence .
But several prominent Kashmiri separatists have said they will not attend the talks .
Foreign direct investment in China fell slightly in the first five months of the year .
The ministry of commerce reported Monday that foreign direct investment from January to May slipped .8 percent from the same period last year , to $ 22.4 billion .
Contracted investment , which gives an indication of future inflows , grew 14.88 percent in the same period , to $ 64.97 billion .
Although foreign companies continue to build up investments in China , the pace of growth has been slowing .
Investments soared in late 2003 through 2004 after slowing during the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the spring of 2003 .
The World Health Organization says AIDS is spreading rapidly through China and estimates 10 million people may be infected with the virus by 2010 .
The WHO says the disease has spread to all of China 's provinces and autonomous regions - with injected drug use the main route of transmission .
It says a similar situation exists in Malaysia and Vietnam .
The warnings came in a statement Tuesday from the organization 's regional director , Shigeru Omi .
Mr. Omi called for stronger political will by Asian governments to stop the spread of the disease .
Based on the WHO 's records for Asia , Cambodia has the highest percentage of people infected with HIV - at 1.9 percent of the population .
President Bush is to meet his Russian counterpart , Vladimir Putin , in Washington later this month for talks on bilateral and global issues .
The White House said Friday the two leaders will discuss ways to deepen the U.S.-Russian partnership to face current challenges and opportunities .
The September 16th meeting will follow a summit of leaders of the United Nations Security Council , focusing on ways to combat terrorism .
Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush have stressed they have a close relationship , despite some differences over international policy .
Moscow has been critical of the war in Iraq , and the United States has called on Russia to do more to promote human rights in the former Soviet Union .
U.S. military officials says they have completed a major sweep of western Iraq aimed at suppressing militant attacks in the lead-up to next week 's constitutional referendum .
A spokesman in Baghdad Friday said U.S.-led troops killed 50 insurgents during the six-day operation along the Syrian border .
He also said six U.S. Marines were killed by two separate roadside bombs in the area of operations .
The end of the military offensive comes just over one week before Iraqis go to the polls to vote on the country 's new constitution .
Shi'ite and Kurdish leaders support the constitution , while many Sunnis have denounced it .
Meanwhile , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani told a British television network , Sky News , Iraqi forces will not be ready to replace U.S.-led troops for two years .
But he said coalition withdrawal depends on a resolution from the U.N. Security Council and negotiations between the Iraqi government and coalition forces .
Two important new studies show tightly managing blood sugar helps diabetics avoid many of the complications of the disease including kidney problems and heart disease .
One study focused on Type Two diabetes .
The other , funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation , gives hope to those with Type One .
VOA 's Carol Pearson reports .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says Iraq 's forthcoming election marks the beginning of a new phase , in which responsible dialogue among Shi'ites , Sunni Arabs and Kurds will make the difference between success and failure in the war-torn country .
In a report to the Security Council Friday , Mr. Annan says increasing sectarian violence and ongoing human rights violations pose key challenges as voters prepare to go to the polls Thursday .
He says the most positive development in the past three months has been the determination of Sunni Arabs to get involved in the political process .
In the quarterly report on Iraq to the Security Council , Mr. Annan warns , however , the country remains beset with formidable security , political and economic challenges .
Meanwhile , Sunni Arab clerics pleaded Friday for the lives of four Western hostages .
Their kidnappers have said they will kill the men Saturday unless all Iraqi prisoners are freed .
Adult stem cell therapy has successfully treated leukemia and other cancers for years , in the form of bone marrow transplants .
A new study in the Journal of the American Medical Association [ JAMA ] finds treatment with adult stem cells is also helping patients with autoimmune diseases and heart conditions .
VOA 's Alex Villarreal reports .
Thousands of voters in Indian Kashmir went to the polls Tuesday in the first municipal elections in 27 years .
The voters turned out in large numbers in some areas despite threats of attacks by rebel groups , and calls for a boycott of the vote by Muslim separatist politicians .
Although no attacks were reported , there was sporadic violence .
In Srinagar , anti-election demonstrators burnt tires and pelted riot police with stones .
The poll to chose town councils in Indian Kashmir is being held in four stages .
It started on January 29 and the last stage will be held on February 10 .
Three candidates were killed by suspected Muslim separatists during the election campaign .
U.S. Secretary of State nominee Condoleezza Rice is facing a second and final day of confirmation hearings Wednesday , after a first day that focused heavily on Iraq and repairing alliances strained by the conflict .
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to question Ms. Rice for several more hours Wednesday before voting on her nomination to succeed Secretary of State Colin Powell .
A full Senate vote is expected Thursday .
Ms. Rice spent more than nine hours testifying Tuesday , handling tough questions about the direction of the war on terror and the Bush administration 's decision to invade Iraq .
She steadfastly maintained that she believes progress is being made in Iraq , but she declined to give a timetable for the return home of U.S. troops .
She said President Bush 's foreign policy goals in the next four years include " spreading freedom and democracy " around the globe , as well as alliance building .
The economy is dominated by the mining industry , with exports of alumina , gold , and oil accounting for about 85 % of exports and 25 % of government revenues , making the economy highly vulnerable to mineral price volatility .
In 2000 , the government of Ronald VENETIAAN , returned to office and inherited an economy with inflation of over 100 % and a growing fiscal deficit .
He quickly implemented an austerity program , raised taxes , attempted to control spending , and tamed inflation .
Economic growth reached about 7 % in 2008 , owing to sizeable foreign investment in mining and oil .
Suriname has received aid for projects in the bauxite and gold mining sectors from Netherlands , Belgium , and the European Development Fund .
The economy slowed in 2009 , however , as investment waned and the country earned less from its commodity exports when global prices for most commodities fell .
Trade picked up , boosting Suriname 's economic growth in 2010 , but the government 's budget remained strained , with increased social spending during the election .
In January 2011 , the government devalued the currency by 20 % and raised taxes to reduce the budget deficit .
Suriname 's economic prospects for the medium term will depend on continued commitment to responsible monetary and fiscal policies and to the introduction of structural reforms to liberalize markets and promote competition .
A new U.N. report says the existence of armed militias in Lebanon is incompatible with restoring the country 's sovereignty and territorial integrity after three decades of Syrian domination .
Special U.N. envoy Terje Roed-Larsen said in his report that Lebanon 's inability to exert control over some areas or to rein in militias is stalling its progress toward full sovereignty .
Mr. Roed-Larsen is the special envoy in charge of implementing Security Council resolution 1559 , which calls for the withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanon and the disarming of all militias , such as Hezbollah .
The report was delivered Wednesday in New York , as Lebanese troops deployed near Palestinian militant camps in the hills near the Syrian border .
Soldiers used loud speakers to call on the militants to leave the base and surrender those responsible for the killing Tuesday of a Lebanese army contractor .
Someone in the world dies in a traffic accident , on average , every 30 seconds .
That is the conclusion of the international group Make Roads Safe , a worldwide effort to make road safety a global priority .
On 31 March 2008 , the United Nations plans to take up the issue of global road safety amid calls for a U.N. conference to tackle the rising toll of road deaths and injuries .
VOA 's Tetiana Koprowicz has more on efforts to improve road safety in the U.S.
The United States has formally extended sanctions against Burma 's military government for another year .
President Barack Obama informed Congress of the decision Friday , saying Burma poses a continuing threat to U.S. national security and foreign policy .
He added that Burma 's actions and policies are hostile to U.S. interests .
The existing sanctions on Burma must be renewed annually .
They were set to expire next week .
Despite the sanctions , President Obama has been making an effort to engage the isolated country .
Earlier this week , U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Kurt Campbell visited Burma for a two-day trip , during which he met with leaders of the military junta and detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The United States has strongly criticized Burma for upcoming election plans that effectively exclude Aung San Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy party .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has called for a ban on the use of weapons of mass destruction across the Taiwan Strait .
Mr. Chen said Wednesday that Taiwan is willing to guarantee that it will not use such weapons , and called on China to do the same .
Mr. Chen also made a new appeal to China to hold talks with the island , saying the two sides should work together to create a code of conduct across the strait .
China has rejected past overtures made by Mr. Chen , and has refused to speak with the Taiwanese leader until he agrees that Taiwan is an inseparable part of China .
China has threatened to seize Taiwan by force if it makes moves toward independence .
Forensic experts in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina have begun exhuming a mass grave believed to contain the bodies of 36 Muslims , including women and children , killed during the Balkan conflict .
Eyewitnesses say Bosnian Serb forces killed the victims then took the bodies to a garage in the village of Snagovo , near Zvornik , and set the building on fire .
The corpses were later buried in a mass grave .
Bosnian authorities have already exhumed two other mass graves in the village , finding about 300 skeletons .
They are believed to be the remains of some of the 8,000 Muslim men and boys massacred after Serb forces captured the enclave of Srebrenica in 1995 .
Hong Kong 's charter carrier , CR Airways , has purchased 40 Boeing planes in a deal worth more than $ 3 billion .
The carrier Tuesday said it bought 30 Boeing 737-800 airliners and 10 Boeing 787s in order to expand its services in China and Asia .
The deal is the latest in a series of recent boosts for the American manufacturer .
Earlier this month , Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific bought more than 30 Boeing aircraft in a nearly $ 3-billion deal .
And in November , China said it plans to buy 70 Boeing 737 airliners in a deal worth $ 4 billion .
Iraqi authorities say they have foiled an insurgent plot to bomb the trial of Saddam Hussein , which resumes in Baghdad Monday .
They say the attackers from the 1920 Revolution Brigades planned to fire rockets at the court building .
Few other details were released .
The alleged attack plot was the latest security issue to plague the trial , including the assassination of two defense lawyers .
During Monday 's session , the first of 10 witnesses is expected to testify .
Saddam and seven members of his former regime are charged with the torture and killing of more than 140 people in the mainly Shi'ite Muslim town of Dujail following a 1982 attempt on his life there .
Afghan and U.S. officials say a clash between Taleban insurgents and Afghan soldiers backed by U.S. troops in southern Helmand province has left one American soldier and seven insurgents dead .
A military statement says another U.S. service member and an Afghan soldier were wounded in Saturday 's fierce fighting in the province 's Sangin district .
The statement says fighting erupted after Afghan and U.S. troops backed by planes and helicopter gunships attacked enemy positions , dropping 11 bombs .
Helmand province has been a hotbed of insurgent activity since U.S.-led forces ousted the hard-line Islamist Taleban rulers of Afghanistan in late 2001 , following the September 11th terrorist attacks in the United States .
The United States has announced it will support a European proposal to offer Iran limited economic incentives in exchange for its abandoning nuclear enrichment activities .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced the policy shift Friday .
She said Washington would drop its objections to Iran 's application to the World Trade Organization and to the licensing of spare parts for Iranian civilian aircraft .
Ms. Rice said the move demonstrates that the United States is prepared to take practical steps to support European efforts to secure Iranian cooperation through diplomatic means .
Earlier Friday , Britain , France and Germany told the European Union that they would support bringing Iran before the U.N. Security Council if talks fail to persuade Iran to permanently stop enriching uranium .
Washington accuses Tehran of secretly trying to build nuclear weapons , a charge Iran denies .
A Taiwanese politician 's visit to a controversial Japanese war shrine has sparked harsh criticism by his fellow lawmakers and a group of Taiwanese aborigines .
The politician from Taiwan 's ruling coalition , Taiwan Solidarity Union Chairman Su Chin-chiang , visited Tokyo 's Yasukuni shrine Monday to honor the Taiwanese soldiers who died while serving in Japan 's military during Tokyo 's 50-year rule over Taiwan that ended in 1945 .
A group of Taiwan 's indigenous people and some Taipei lawmakers protested his visit because of Japan 's harsh crackdown on several uprisings during its occupation .
The Yasukuni war shrine is dedicated to 2.5 million war dead , including thousands of Taiwanese soldiers as well as 14 Japanese war criminals .
Annual visits to the shrine by Japanese politicians have been a major cause of friction with China and South Korea .
The first suspect formally charged in connection with the failed July 21 bombing of the London subway is expected to face a British judge Thursday .
Police say Ismael Abdurahman allegedly withheld information that could have led them to those suspected of carrying out or planning terrorism .
Police initially arrested him on suspicion of harboring a suspect one week after the attempted bombing .
A total of 14 people are now in custody in connection with the failed attack , including all four bombers .
One suspect , Hamdi Isaac , was arrested in Italy .
Britain has formally requested his extradition .
A prosecutor in Rome told Italian radio that extradition could take weeks while authorities investigate whether Mr. Isaac committed any crimes in Italy .
The head of the U.S. space agency says the agency 's newly approved budget shows clear congressional support for resuming the nation 's manned space program .
In Washington Tuesday , NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe said the agency 's priorities are getting the space shuttles flying again and completing work on the International Space Station .
He said the agency will also begin developing the next generation of piloted spacecraft - capable of traveling to the moon and Mars .
President Bush , in a speech last January , committed the United States to flying a new manned spacecraft by 2008 , and returning to the moon by 2020 .
He said the knowledge gained on the moon will serve as a foundation for further human exploration of space , beginning with a manned mission to Mars .
Iraqi security officials opened fire on demonstrators protesting electricity shortages Saturday , killing one person and wounding at least two .
The incident took place in the southern city of Basra , where thousands of people had gathered outside the provincial council building demanding the resignation of the electricity minister .
Authorities say some demonstrators hurled stones at the building .
The incident comes a day after at least 20 people were killed in a wave of violence across Iraq .
Authorities say the violence included a car bombing north of Baghdad that killed at least eight people and a shooting near the Syrian border that killed seven Iraqi soldiers .
Some officials fear insurgents may be taking advantage of the political deadlock that followed Iraq 's March elections to derail recent security gains .
The United States has raised Venezuela 's aviation safety rating , ending a long simmering dispute between the two nations .
The American embassy in Caracas Friday announced the decision by the US Federal Aviation administration to upgrade the safety rating to what is known as Category One .
The embassy said the move comes in recognition of efforts by Venezuela to improve the level of aviation safety oversight .
Venezuela had long chafed at the lower Category Two rating put on its airline sector in 1995 .
The rating had prohibited Venezuelan airlines from flying their own planes to the United States .
Caracas had threatened to retaliate against U.S. airlines flying into Venezuela if the issue was not resolved by April 25 .
The issue had been one of several that have strained relations between Washington and Caracas .
Police in central India say nine policemen were killed Monday by a series of landmine blasts in Chhattisgarh state .
Authorities blame Maoist rebels for the explosions .
The police were on patrol at the time of the blasts .
At least three other policemen were wounded .
India 's Maoist rebels have a strong presence in Chhattisgarh , which is one of India 's poorest states .
They are active in several eastern and central Indian states .
Thousands of people have died in the insurgency , which began 40 years ago .
The rebels say they are fighting for the rights of poor and landless farmers .
The United Nations General Assembly Wednesday is expected to adopt a treaty designed to combat nuclear terrorism .
The treaty would require governments to prosecute or extradite those who illegally possess nuclear devices and materials .
The text also calls for countries to cooperate and exchange information .
A U.N. committee approved the text on April 1 after Pakistan , Cuba , the United States and Iran withdrew proposed amendments that had stalled its passage .
The United States had wanted to add language stating that the peaceful use of nuclear materials should not be used as a cover for developing weapons .
That amendment was clearly aimed at Iran , which Washington accuses of having a secret nuclear weapons program .
Iran - which says its nuclear program is peaceful - had proposed language approving the exchange of nuclear equipment and materials for peaceful purposes .
Israeli police have refused to issue permits for a mass Israeli march Monday on the Gaza Strip .
But organizers of the right-wing protest against Israel 's upcoming Gaza withdrawal say they plan to go forward with the march , anyway .
Settler leaders and police met Sunday , but could not reach agreement on details of the protest .
The permit denial makes the march illegal and allows police to break it up at any time .
Earlier today , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon ordered security forces to use all force necessary to stop protesters from reaching Gaza .
Under plans unveiled last week , pullout opponents were to gather in the Israeli town of Netivot for a three-day march to the Palestinian territory .
Protesters were then to join forces with residents in the Gush Katif settlement to resist the mid-August evacuation .
April second marked World Autism Day -- a day set aside by the United Nations to raise awareness of this bio-neurological disorder that impacts the development of the brain .
Some countries have designated the entire month of April Autism Month to educate people about this disorder .
No one knows the exact cause of autism , but doctors agree , the number of cases is growing .
VOA 's Carol Pearson reports .
The judge in charge of the trial of ousted Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein says the proceedings will be public and may be broadcast on television .
Saddam and seven members of his regime will go on trial Wednesday in Baghdad before an Iraqi panel of judges for their role in the 1982 murders of 143 Shi'ites from the Iraqi town of Dujail .
If convicted , they could receive the death penalty .
Saddam 's attorney has said he will immediately seek to adjourn the trial , arguing he has not had enough time to review the evidence against his client .
The imprisoned former leader still faces other trials on a variety of charges , including the 1988 gassing of Kurds in the town of Halabja .
The White House says Rwandan President Paul Kagame will visit President Bush on April 15 .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said in a statement Friday , Mr. Bush looks forward to discussing efforts to improve stability in Africa 's troubled Great Lakes region as well as Rwanda 's peacekeeping efforts in Sudan .
The Great Lakes region - which includes such countries as Rwanda , Burundi , the Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda - has been the scene of several wars and ethnic conflicts over the last decade .
Last year , Rwanda contributed troops to an African Union force to help stop a separate ethnic conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Mr. McClellan said the two presidents will also discuss democracy and reconciliation issues in Rwanda as well as bilateral trade initiatives .
Mexican drug cartels are reported to have taken over control of the very lucrative U.S. illicit drug trade from Colombian cartels .
A similar article published in two popular U.S. newspapers , USA Today and Christian Science Monitor says the Mexican groups have used profits from border delivery routes to grab control from Colombian drug producers .
Another reported reason for the change is successful enforcement against Colombian drug lords by Colombian and U.S. authorities .
The director of the Bush administration 's drug control policy , John Walters is quoted as saying the Mexicans are now running crime and " getting the bulk of the money " as " the Colombians have pulled back . "
Earlier this week , the governors of the U.S. states of New Mexico and Arizona declared emergencies on their border regions with Mexico , in large part because of an increase in drug trafficking and violence as rival cartels fight for control of transit routes .
At least four people have been killed in fighting between suspected Islamic militants and government troops in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
The battle erupted on Saturday after police cordoned off a village looking for suspected rebels .
Reports quote police officials as saying two militants and a senior commanding officer are among the dead .
Several people were injured and a few residential homes were gutted .
Indian police tightened security in the area after the gun battle ended .
Rebel Islamic groups have fought since 1989 for an independent Kashmir or its merger with Pakistan .
Police in India have arrested two men on suspicion of involvement in last month 's bombing on an India-to-Pakistan train that killed 68 people .
Authorities say the two were picked up Tuesday in the central Indian city of Indore .
Police say they believe the men are connected to the purchase of the suitcases that contained the bombs .
The cross-border train was firebombed February 18 as it headed from New Delhi to Pakistan .
Indian authorities say they suspect Pakistani militants were behind the attack .
NATO and Afghan officials say NATO troops have fought suspected Taleban insurgents north of the Afghan capital , Kabul .
The officials say the clash took place Friday and Saturday in the Tagab Valley .
Most of the fighting in Afghanistan has been concentrated in the south and east , and clashes close to Kabul have been rare .
In a separate incident , in southeastern Afghanistan , Taleban insurgents ambushed a convoy carrying supplies to a NATO base , killing two Pakistani drivers .
Meanwhile , Dutch Foreign Minister Bernard Bot pressed Pakistan to seal its border to stop militants from crossing into Afghanistan and battling NATO and Afghan troops .
Bot told reporters in Kabul Saturday , his country will also push its NATO allies to send more troops to the volatile south .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak , who is in the United States for talks , says Arab nations would recognize Israel only after a just and comprehensive Mideast peace deal is reached .
Mr. Mubarak told Egypt 's state-run newspaper al-Ahram that Israel must halt settlement construction and resume peace negotiations with Palestinians , before Arab countries can normalize ties with the Jewish state .
President Mubarak is scheduled to meet with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Washington Monday , and to hold talks with President Obama Tuesday .
The Egyptian leader told the newspaper some Arab countries that exchanged representatives and trade offices with Israel might consider re-opening those offices if Israel commits to a settlement freeze .
During a visit to the region last month , U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell called on Arab states to take " meaningful steps " to normalize relations with Israel .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says he is in favor of setting up a new U.S. military command to oversee operations in Africa .
Rumsfeld said Friday that he and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Peter Pace , have pressed the military for six months for a proposal on setting up an Africa command .
The U.S. military assigns responsibility for specific parts of the world to regional commands , including European Command , Central Command and Pacific Command .
Responsibility for Africa is currently fractured under all three .
General Pace said there are several options available for Africa , including a full-blown regional command or a regional authority that would answer to another command center .
The U.S. military has a task force in the Horn of Africa to help fight terrorism in the region .
The presidents of Venezuela and Colombia have signed an accord to build a gas pipeline from Venezuela to Colombia , after a day of meetings on energy issues .
Colombia 's Alvaro Uribe and Venezuela 's Hugo Chavez met Thursday at an oil refinery in Venezuela 's Paraguana region .
The pipeline they agreed to build would be used first to deliver Colombian gas to Venezuela , as Venezuela develops its own gas supplies .
Later , as Colombian supplies are depleted , the pipeline will be used to send Venezuelan gas to Colombia .
Construction is set to begin in 2006 .
The two leaders also discussed the possibility of a separate pipeline to carry Venezuelan oil through Colombia to the Pacific , where it can be shipped elsewhere .
Relations between the two nations have sometimes been tense , as Mr. Uribe is an ally of President Bush , while Mr. Chavez is an outspoken critic of the American president .
India has defended its vote at the International Atomic Energy Agency to adopt a resolution that could see New Delhi 's traditional ally , Iran , referred to the U.N. Security Council for its controversial nuclear program .
In a surprise move on Saturday , India joined other nuclear powers , such as the United States , Britain and France , in backing the resolution at the IAEA 's governing board meeting .
The Indian Foreign Ministry said Sunday that U.S. pressure played no part in the decision and that New Delhi would press ahead with a major pipeline deal with Tehran .
The two countries said earlier this month that a framework agreement should be completed by the end of the year for the more than $ 4 billion pipeline to send Iranian gas to India through Pakistan .
President Bush has met with the last surviving American veteran of World War I .
Mr. Bush said it was his honor to welcome Frank Buckles to the White House Thursday .
He said the 107-year-old Buckles ' mind is sharp and his memory is crisp .
The president said Buckles , who signed up for the Army at the age of 15 , shared interesting anecdotes and has a " vivid recollection of historic times . "
Buckles was stationed in Europe during World War I .
He also served in World War II , and was a prisoner of war in the Philippines .
Mr. Bush thanked Buckles for his patriotism and love of his country .
He said meeting with Buckles was one way to honor the service of past and present military personnel .
In the Oval Office news appearance , Buckles sat in a wheelchair next to the president .
His daughter , Susannah , also was in attendance .
Palestinian sources say Israeli soldiers have killed three Palestinian militants at the Tulkarem refugee camp in the northern West Bank .
The militants were members of the al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigade - an offshoot the dominant Palestinian Fatah faction .
Friday 's violence came one day after Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia criticized a British proposal to host an international conference aimed at helping Palestinians prepare for possible future peace talks with Israel .
Mr. Qureia said he believes Palestinians already have the expertise to negotiate with Israel .
He said what is needed is a full-fledged peace conference .
Mr. Blair , who has made reviving the Middle East peace process a priority , mentioned the conference proposal this week in talks with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian Liberation Organization chairman Mahmoud Abbas .
Bolivian President Carlos Mesa has submitted his resignation to Congress amid angry protests demanding nationalization of the country 's oil and gas industry .
Mr. Mesa made the announcement in a nationally televised address late Monday .
Congress must still vote to accept the resignation .
President Mesa had also submitted his resignation earlier this year , but it was rejected by lawmakers .
Meanwhile , tens of thousands of protesters marched in Bolivia 's largest city , La Paz Monday in the largest demonstration yet in weeks of civil unrest .
Indian and labor groups have staged the protests and set up roadblocks to demand the redistribution of oil and gas profits to the country 's impoverished majority .
Peru 's outgoing parliament has voted to approve a free trade agreement with the United States .
Six legislators chose not to participate in Wednesday 's vote , which followed hours of debate and a brief protest by elected lawmakers who will take their seats later this year .
The protesters interrupted debate by breaking into the room where the parliament was meeting .
Critics of the trade agreement say U.S. competition will damage business for Peruvian producers .
The United States and Peru settled terms for a free trade agreement late last year .
The U.S. Congress is expected to debate the issue later this year .
Annual trade between the United States and Peru is valued at nearly $ 6 billion .
Indonesian Vice President Yusuf Kalla is playing down the discovery of a small amount of arsenic in bowl of soup that was to be served to him .
Police are investigating the matter , but Mr. Kalla said he did not think it was an attempt to intentionally poison him .
The soup was prepared for Mr. Kalla at a hotel in Bali , where he is attending a conference of Indonesia 's powerful Golkar political party .
The Indonesian vice president is challenging incumbent Akbar Tandjung for Golkar 's leadership .
Party members are expected to elect a leader Saturday or Sunday .
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along .
One carried panniers filled with money , the other sacks weighted with grain .
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect , as if conscious of the value of his burden , and tossed up and down the clear-toned bells fastened to his neck .
His companion followed with quiet and easy step .
All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon them from their hiding-places , and in the scuffle with their owners , wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure , which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain .
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his misfortunes .
The other replied , " I am indeed glad that I was thought so little of , for I have lost nothing , nor am I hurt with any wound . "
A car bomb has exploded near a farmers ' market in southern Afghanistan , killing eight people and wounding 17 .
The provincial police chief Mohammad Hussein Andiwal told reporters there were no security forces in the area and that civilians were the target .
He said the bombing took place in the Gereshk district of Helmand province .
The police chief blamed the Taliban for the blast , and the French news agency reported the Taliban claimed responsibility in a phone call to the agency .
Monday , police said , Taliban insurgents ambushed a police patrol in Herat province , killing four policemen and two civilians .
Also Monday , the Afghan defense ministry said soldiers killed a number of Taliban militants in southern Zabul province .
A resurgent Taliban movement has vowed to step up its violent campaign against Afghan , NATO and U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan .
Kyrgyzstan is resisting calls from the U.N. and the United States to release 29 of the more than 450 Uzbeks who fled the violent suppression of an uprising in neighboring Andijan in May .
Uzbekistan says all who fled the clashes are criminals and should be repatriated .
Kyrgyzstan has decided to let the United Nations refugee agency transfer more than 400 for resettlement to a third country in order to avoid Uzbek pressure .
But it says the fate of 15 of them will be decided later because the Uzbek government wants them sent back .
It says they are criminals who escaped from jail during the May events .
Earlier Thursday , Romania offered to provide temporary shelter for the refugees being transferred to an unnamed third country .
The move was welcomed by Washington .
I 'm not vegetarian because I love animals , I 'm vegetarian because I do n't like vegetables .
The new U.S. ambassador to Dhaka says the United States will help Bangladesh to fight terrorism and hold free and fair national elections early next year .
Ambassador Patricia Butenis told reporters fighting terrorism is a priority not just for Bangladesh , but for the entire world .
She said the U.S. is giving training and technical assistance to Bangladesh to tackle terrorism and help make laws against money laundering and financing terrorism .
The ambassador also urged Bangladesh 's rival political parties to stop fighting in the streets and hold talks to resolve their differences and ensure free and fair elections next year .
The opposition Awami League wants election reforms but refuses to talk with Prime Minister Khaleda Zia because she insists that talks include the fundamentalist Jamat-e-Islami , a partner in her coalition government .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned a suicide attack on a U.N. convoy in Afghanistan that killed two Afghan doctors .
Taliban militants claimed responsibility for Sunday 's attack , in which a suicide car bomber struck the convoy in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar .
The doctors killed in the blast in the town of Spin Boldak worked for the U.N. 's World Health Organization on a polio vaccination program .
The attack also killed an Afghan driver employed by the U.N. and wounded about 15 other people .
Mr. Ban says the doctors were traveling in clearly-marked U.N. vehicles .
The secretary-general says the bombing shows what he calls the " brutal face " of those opposing peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan .
In another incident on Sunday , six children were killed when a bomb they were playing with exploded in the central province of Ghazni .
The U.S. Soccer team has already made a change to its World Cup roster that it announced on Tuesday .
Chris Albright will replace defender Frankie Hejduk who on Wednesday was diagnosed with a torn right knee ligament .
Heyduk , a two-time World Cup veteran , suffered the injury while playing on Saturday for his professional team , Major League Soccer 's Columbus Crew .
Hejduk completed the match as well as a training session Tuesday before experiencing pain in his knee .
An MRI examination Wednesday confirmed the ligament injury .
Chris Albright , who plays for the MLS champion Los Angeles Galaxy , had been named to the 13-player alternate list for next month 's World Cup in Germany .
He has appeared in 19 matches for the U.S. national soccer team , starting five World Cup qualifiers last year .
The 27-year-old Albright is capable of playing either the right or left side on defense .
London police say they have arrested a 36 year-old man in connection with the failed July 21 bombings in the British capital 's public transport system .
No more details about Tuesday 's arrest were immediately available .
Four other suspects are already in British custody over the attempted attacks , in which no one was hurt .
The July 21 incidents came two weeks after another set of bombings killed 56 people , including four suicide bombers , in the London public transport system .
The speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives is to address the Israeli parliament , as she leads a congressional tour to show support for the Jewish state .
Nancy Pelosi is scheduled to address the Knesset in Jerusalem Monday , before wrapping up her four-day visit to the country .
The Democratic Party lawmaker is leading a bipartisan congressional delegation that traveled to Israel to mark the country 's 60th anniversary .
Her schedule included meetings with Israeli President Shimon Peres , Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and other leaders .
Pelosi said Sunday that U.S. support for Israel is an issue that unites both the Democratic and Republican parties .
U.S. President George Bush also joined Israel 's anniversary celebration on Friday .
He called the United States Israel 's " best friend " .
His speech did not specifically address the plight of the Palestinians , drawing strong criticism from Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
A Lebanese military court has charged a Christian politician and former army general with spying for Israel .
Fayez Karam of the Free Patriotic Movement is the first political figure to be charged in a widening probe of alleged Israeli espionage activity in Lebanon .
He is accused of meeting with enemy intelligence agents abroad , and giving them information by phone .
Prosecutors say he gave the Israelis information about his own party and about Hezbollah .
Lebanon has detained as many as 70 people in recent months for alleged spying for Israel .
More than 20 have been charged and two have been sentenced to death .
A number of those in custody were military and telecom employees .
Lebanese officials say they plan to raise the issue at the U.N. Security Council .
A delegation of U.S. lawmakers has met with North Korean Foreign Minister Paek Nam Sun in Pyongyang at the start of a four-day visit .
North Korean state media announced the meeting , but did not provide any details .
Congressman Curt Weldon , a Republican from the northern U.S. state of Pennsylvania , is leading the six-member U.S. delegation which arrived in Pyongyang Tuesday .
Mr. Weldon is a senoir member of the House Armed Services Committee .
The delegation had said it planned to urge North Korea to return to six-party talks aimed at convincing Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear weapons program .
A separate delegation led by Democratic congressman Tom Lantos left North Korea Tuesday after also holding talks on the nuclear issue .
This latest group will travel to South Korea for talks with high-ranking officials later this week .
Hospital sources in the West Bank city of Ramallah say Israeli soldiers fatally wounded a Palestinian man during clashes Wednesday to protest the killing of another man a day earlier .
The sources said the 21-year-old man was shot in the chest at the heavily guarded Jewish settlement of Bei~El , and later died of his wounds .
An Israeli military spokesman said troops shot at a protester who was preparing to throw a firebomb at them .
The incident took place following the funeral of an 18-year-old Palestinian man killed by Israeli troops late Tuesday as he was preparing to throw a firebomb into a Jewish settlement .
A military statement said Israeli soldiers found another 10 firebombs at the scene .
Israeli officials say Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has stated he will not rule out any options to stop Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons .
The officials quote Mr. Olmert as telling a parliamentary committee Monday that he considers any option to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear capabilities to be " legitimate . "
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for wiping the Jewish state off the map .
Israel accuses Iran of actively pursuing nuclear weapons , disputing a recent U.S. intelligence report that says Tehran suspended such a program in 2003 .
President Bush said on a visit to Israel last week that Iran remains a threat because it continues to pursue the knowledge needed to make nuclear weapons .
Iran insists that its nuclear work is peaceful .
U.S. and Israeli officials say they prefer to resolve the Iranian nuclear dispute diplomatically .
A small town doctor was famous in the area for always catching large fish .
One day while he was on one of his frequent fishing trips he got a call that a woman at a neighboring farm was giving birth .
He rushed to her aid and delivered a healthy baby boy .
The farmer had nothing to weigh the baby with so the doctor used his fishing scales .
The baby weighed 32 lb .
10 oz
The United Nations says the death toll from AIDS in Africa could surpass 80 million men , women and children by the year 2025 unless more effective measures are taken to combat the epidemic .
Over the same period of time , the UNAIDS agency warned Friday , the total number of Africans infected by the AIDS virus could swell ( from 25 million at present ) to nearly 90 million , more than 10 percent of the continent 's population .
United Nations analysts say advances in treatment of AIDS and generous funding could reduce the death toll in the years ahead , but even in their so-called " best case " scenario , at least 67 million people will have died .
UNAIDS is asking for $ 200 billion to be spent in the effort against Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome over the next two decades .
Poland 's Cabinet has formally approved the agreement with the United States on deploying parts of a planned anti-missile system in the eastern European country .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski are to sign the document in Warsaw Wednesday .
The United States and Poland reached agreement last week after 18 months of negotiations .
Russia strongly opposes the plan to base 10 interceptor missiles in Poland and a guidance radar in the Czech Republic , calling it a threat to its security .
But U.S. officials insist it is aimed at defending Europe from a possible attack from Iran and in no way threatens Russia .
A top Russian general said the agreement exposes Poland to the threat of attack .
The Czech Republic has agreed to accept the radar .
A court in Ivory Coast has approved the extradition of a man wanted in connection with the torture and killing of a young man in France .
A Justice Ministry spokesman says President Laurent Gbagbo must now sign the extradition order .
Youssouf Fofana , a French citizen of Ivorian origin , was arrested in February .
Police say he was the leader of a gang that kidnapped 23-year-old Jewish man named Ilan Halimi near Paris .
They say the gang tortured Halimi for three weeks , then dumped him on a roadside .
Halimi died shortly after police found him .
Halimi 's murder has revived concerns of anti-Semitism in France .
Ivorian police say that during interrogation , Fofana said the crime had nothing to do with religion .
A court in Afghanistan has sentenced two men to death and another to 20 years in prison for their involvement in the kidnapping of an Italian aid worker and the murder of an Afghan businessman .
The court in Kabul announced the verdicts Thursday after a one-day trial .
The presiding judge said all three men could appeal their sentences .
Clementina Cantoni , who worked for the CARE international aid agency , was abducted at gunpoint from her car in the Afghan capital on May 16 and freed three weeks later unharmed .
Her abduction shocked the aid worker community in Kabul and raised fears that criminals and Taleban-linked rebels were copying tactics of insurgents in Iraq .
The circumstances of Ms. Cantoni 's release and the motive for the kidnapping remain unclear .
Afghan officials deny claims that her release was secured through any concession to her captors .
Officials in Sudan say several days of heavy rainfall and flooding have killed at least 59 people and displaced thousands more .
Officials said Monday more than 10,000 people were affected in southern Sudan alone .
Floods also devastated homes near Sudan 's capital of Khartoum , where the White and Blue Nile rivers meet .
The country is bracing for more flooding , as heavy rainl continues .
The United Nations and other international relief agencies are sending aid , including food , blankets and insecticide .
China plans to buy 70 Boeing 737 airliners in a deal worth $ 4 billion .
Officials in Beijing did not give financial details of the purchase , which is being announced as President Bush visits China .
Boeing says it expects Chinese carriers to buy more than 2,600 new aircraft worth $ 213 billion as the country 's economy grows and more people travel .
Beijing often announces large purchases of American airliners in connection with visits by U.S. leaders in an effort to ease dissatisfaction over its trade surplus , which hit a record $ 162 billion this year .
China is a key growth market for Boeing and its European rival , Airbus .
The Japanese public 's opinion of China is at its lowest level since the government began a poll on the topic 28 years ago .
The Cabinet Office poll conducted in October found less than a third , 32 percent , of the more than 1,500 respondents said they had friendly feelings toward China .
Seven in ten ( 71 percent ) also said ties between Japan and China were not good .
The Japanese government survey also showed that the number of people who have positive feelings about South Korea fell for the first time in four years to 51 percent .
And there was big drop in people saying ties with the country were good , down 16 percentage points .
Japan has been at odds with its two neighbors over Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visits to a Tokyo shrine that commemorates Japan 's military dead , including convicted war criminals .
Afghan election officials have announced the final results from September parliamentary elections that were marred by fraud and irregularities .
The country 's Independent Election Commission said Wednesday all 11 seats in Ghazni province would go to members of the Hazara ethnic group , with no representation by the larger Pashtun population .
Most polling stations in Ghazni were shut due to insecurity during the September 18 vote .
Widespread reports of fraud delayed the release of the final tally .
Election officials have disqualified 24 election winners nationwide and invalidated nearly a quarter of the 5.6 million votes that were cast .
The Kenyan Red Cross says about 10,000 people have fled villages near the Ethiopian border following a series of violent raids by cattle rustlers .
Local officials say at least seven people have been killed and thousands of livestock have been stolen by organized bandits in the past week .
They say many of the stolen animals have been driven into Ethiopia .
There also have been reports of several kidnappings related to the livestock raids .
Kenyan officials have sent security forces to several northern districts to try to stop the thefts and the clashes between animal herders and rustlers .
Cross-border livestock raids are common in northern Kenya , a poor and arid region where clans often fight over scarce resources .
A string of aftershocks has jolted India 's remote Andaman and Nicobar islands , devastated by last Sunday 's tsunami , as aid is slowly making it through to thousands of locals desperate for help .
Rescue efforts are being hampered by lack of transportation .
Indian military planes are dropping emergency supplies to isolated villages , and the first naval supply ship has reached the islands bringing humanitarian aid .
A few international relief agencies have begun working in Port Blair , the islands ' capital .
But they are unable to go to the more isolated areas , because New Delhi refuses to give them permission .
Indian authorities bar foreigners from the more isolated islands , partly for security reasons because of an Indian air force base in Car Nicobar as well as to protect a dwindling group of indigenous people .
An Afghan peace delegation is traveling to Pakistan for talks on resolving the Afghan conflict .
The delegation headed by former Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani is expected to hold talks with Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and other senior officials .
The discussions are expected to focus on efforts by the Afghan government to initiate negotiations with the Taliban .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has called for reconciliation with members of the Taliban who renounce violence , but exploratory peace talks with the militant group have not resulted in any progress .
Recent talks brokered by NATO officials collapsed after it was revealed that a man claiming to be a Taliban representative was in fact an imposter who had been paid to attend meetings with Afghan officials .
Pakistan backed the Taliban until 2001 .
Pakistani officials have admitted they maintain contact with some elements of the Taliban , but they say they do not support the insurgency in Afghanistan .
Thousands of hurricane refugees in and around New Orleans ' Superdome arena are facing worsening humanitarian conditions and uncertain evacuation plans .
An officer with the Louisiana National Guard , in an interview with CNN , described the situation inside the crowded sports arena as desperate , with refugees in stifling conditions without water .
The situation is also tense , with reports of shots being fired and blazes being set in trash cans .
Crowds of refugees are also gathered outside the stadium .
Some refugees have already been bussed 500 kilometers to the west to Houston 's Astrodome .
The National Guard officer said people from other locations rushed to the Superdome to be evacuated out .
He estimated that 50,000 to 60,000 people are to be bussed out of the arena .
Texas Governor Rick Perry said Wednesday that his state will do all it can to help the hurricane victims .
Japanese Olympic officials have expressed concern that the election of Barack Obama to the U.S. presidency could harm Tokyo 's bid and boost his hometown of Chicago in its bid to host the 2016 Summer Games .
Tokyo , along with Madrid , Spain and Rio de Janeiro , Brazil are also in the running to host the Olympics in 2016 .
Japanese Olympic Committee President Tsunekazu Takeda said Wednesday he wonders what the International Olympic Committee 's reaction would be when Mr. Obama appears in a presentation for Chicago .
Senior Japan Olympic Committee executive board member Tomiaki Fukuda added that Mr. Obama 's popularity and speechmaking ability could make things " tough for Japan . ''
Afghan investigators say they have found no evidence that poppy fields in the south of the country were sprayed with toxic chemicals from the air .
Investigators were sent to Helmand province , after farmers in four villages complained of skin troubles following the alleged spraying .
They said a plant disease was to blame for the skin trouble .
The deputy interior minister for drugs , General Mohammed Daud , described the allegations as " propaganda spread by enemies of Afghanistan in an attempt to alienate farmers from the government . "
The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan - which controls the country 's air space - had denied any involvement in the alleged spraying .
In November , the Afghan government began an inconclusive probe into similar claims that unidentified foreign troops had sprayed fields in eastern Nangarhar province .
Newly-elected Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says Palestinians are ready to carry out their commitments under the internationally-backed " road map " peace plan .
Speaking to a group of local and international Christian clergymen in Ramallah Thursday , Mr. Abbas said there are mutual obligations in the " road map , " and that Palestinians are serious about implementing their part .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who is expected to meet with Mr. Abbas within days , has stressed that peace negotiations can not be revived unless Palestinians crackdown on militants .
In the Gaza Strip Thursday , Israeli troops shot and killed a Palestinian man who was driving his pregnant wife to a hospital .
The military says soldiers opened fire as the vehicle was speeding towards them .
The woman is said to have later given birth to a baby boy .
Suspected tribal militants in Pakistan 's troubled southwest have blown up a key railway track linking the country with neighboring Iran .
Officials say terrorists hit the line at Naushki , some 150 kilometers west of Quetta on Wednesday .
The officials say the blast was the third in a month to hit the line from Baluchistan 's capital Quetta , to Zahedan in Iran .
Baluchi tribesmen have been fighting for more royalties for the natural resources extracted from their region .
President Pervez Musharraf ordered thousands of troops to move into the area in January after the rebels rocketed Pakistan 's biggest gas field at Sui in Baluchistan , killing eight people .
The rebels said the attack was in retaliation for the rape of a woman doctor at the facility .
Suspected Taliban militants have blown up five schools in Pakistan 's northwestern Swat Valley , continuing a campaign to prevent girls from attending classes .
Officials say Monday 's targets included both boys ' and girls ' schools .
The attacks came hours after a government minister , Information Minister Sherry Rehman , vowed that girls ' schools would re-open after winter break on March 1 , despite the Taliban 's ban against girls ' education in the region .
A local Taliban leader , Shah Durran , announced the ban in December , telling families they must stop sending their daughters to school by January 15 or the girls will be killed .
The ban is part of the Taliban 's bid to enforce its version of Islamic law in northwestern Pakistan .
In recent months , militants have blown up an estimated 175 schools .
Somali pirates have hijacked a Malaysian-flagged container ship in the Indian Ocean .
Multiple sources said Tuesday that pirates seized the MV Albedo west of the Maldives islands on Friday .
The ship was en route from the United Arab Emirates to Kenya .
The European Union 's anti-piracy force says the Albedo has a crew of 23 from Pakistan , Bangladesh , Sri Lanka and Iran .
Somali pirates are now reported to be holding at least 22 vessels with more than 500 hostages .
Pirates have continued to hijack ships despite naval patrols by the European Union , NATO , and countries such as Russia and China .
Saudi authorities have stepped up security in Riyadh , where anti-monarchists were expected to try to hold demonstrations called by an exiled opposition leader .
Witnesses say bus loads of additional security forces , some carrying batons , were brought into the city center Thursday , while dozens of police cars patrolled the area .
London-based dissident Saad al-Fagih , who heads the Movement for Islamic Reform , has called for peaceful protest marches in Riyadh and Jeddah after noon prayers Thursday , to demand the monarchy 's removal .
Such demonstrations are illegal in Saudi Arabia , and those participating would risk arrest .
Mr. Fagih , has lived in London for eight years .
Last year , he accused Saudi agents of attempting to kill him in a stabbing incident at his home .
The Saudi government denied any involvement .
Kenya 's President Mwai Kibaki has named replacements for three ministers who resigned because of corruption allegations .
The president promoted Lands Minister Amos Kimunya to the post of finance minister , formerly held by David Mwiraria .
He picked two other Cabinet members to serve as acting ministers of energy and education , replacing Kiraitu Murungi and George Saitoti .
Opposition groups are pressuring Mr. Kibaki to fire more officials implicated in two multi-million-dollar corruption scandals , including Vice President Moody Awori .
The accused officials have denied any wrongdoing .
The Cabinet reshuffle comes a day after Kenyan police ordered 20 people under investigation in the scandals to give up their passports and firearms .
These scandals have shaken Mr. Kibaki 's government , which came to power four years ago pledging to stamp out corruption .
President George W. Bush has concluded his trip to Asia with a stop in Indonesia , where he met President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono amid protests against the U.S. presence in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Mr. Bush and Mr. Yudhoyono discussed the war on terror , North Korea , and other issues during their Monday meeting at a presidential palace in Bogor , about 60 kilometers from Jakarta .
They also discussed the war in Iraq .
At a news conference , President Bush said he had not yet decided whether to raise or lower the number of U.S. troops in Iraq .
Mr. Bush said he viewed the protests against U.S. policy as a healthy indication of democracy and freedom in Indonesia .
Mr. Bush departed Indonesia on a long flight to Hawaii , where he will spend the night before returning to Washington later Tuesday .
A meeting this week between Turkey 's foreign minister and a leader of the Islamic militant group Hamas has spurred an angry exchange between longtime allies Israel and Turkey .
Israel condemned the visit to Ankara by Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal .
An Israeli government spokesman asked how Turkey would feel if Israel invited Abdullah Ocalan , the imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader whose Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) launched a deadly separatist rebellion in southeastern Turkey in 1984 .
Turkey 's Foreign Ministry Friday called Israel 's statement " unfortunate , " and said it had relayed its " discomfort and dissatisfaction " to Jerusalem .
After Hamas won Palestinian elections in January , Turkey said it hoped to mediate between Israel and Hamas , which calls for Israel 's destruction .
Russia is planning to host a Hamas delegation in March .
Health officials in Mozambique say at least 50 people have died from an outbreak of cholera in the central province of Manica .
The government has declared a high alert for the area in an effort to control the outbreak .
Evelina Malora , a health official working in the region , says the outbreak occurred after people drank from a contaminated lake or lagoon near the village of Guru .
Malora says the area has been isolated to prevent the disease from spreading further .
Cholera is an acute , diarrheal illness caused by a viral infection of the intestine .
It is often spread through contaminated food or water and can lead to death through dehydration and shock within hours if not treated .
Iraqi troops backed by U.S. forces surrounded a town south of Baghdad Sunday following reports that Sunni militants were holding Shi'ites hostage there .
But hours later , reporters in Madaen said the troops failed to find any hostages or evidence of the standoff .
They say the kidnapping reports may have been grossly exaggerated or the result of tribal disputes and political maneuvering .
Several Iraqi government officials gave conflicting comments on the situation in Madaen .
Iraqi Prime Minister Iyad Allawi blamed the incident on al-Qaida-linked militants .
But a message on an Islamist web site accused the government of fabricating the crisis as a pretext to raid the town .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials say three American soldiers have been killed by mortar fire near Ramadi .
A suicide car bomber in Yemen has killed at least seven Spanish tourists and two Yemeni nationals .
Officials say the blast Monday in the northeastern province of Marib wounded seven other people .
The attack targeted a convoy of tourists at an ancient temple that dates back three thousand years to the time of the Biblical Queen of Sheba .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility , but Yemeni security officials say they suspect al-Qaida .
Yemen is the ancestral homeland of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden , and the terrorist group has carried out several attacks in the country , including the 2000 bombing of a U.S. warship in Aden that killed 17 American sailors .
Yemen has been a haven for Islamist militants , but the country 's government has pledged its support to the U.S. war on terrorism .
A bomb has exploded in a mainly Christian neighborhood in Beirut , killing at least one person and wounding at least 23 others .
The blast occurred near a bank in the Achrafieh section of town shortly before midnight local time Friday .
An apartment building was badly damaged along with two cars .
Police said the bomb contained at least 10 kilograms of TNT .
Beirut has suffered a series of bombings since late last year , including a car bomb attack that killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Syria has been suspected of involvement in some of the bombings , including Mr. Hariri 's assassination .
Syria denies any role .
Earlier this week , a United Nations investigator working on the Hariri case traveled to Damascus to arrange interviews with several officials about their possible role in the attack .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says his country and the United States remain partners , but he criticized Western nations on a range of issues , including Iraq .
At a Kremlin news conference Thursday , Mr. Putin said he has serious doubts about whether democratic elections can be held in Iraq while the country is being occupied .
Mr. Putin said he thinks the West has " double standards " on elections and human rights .
The Russian president bristled at U.S. criticism of his political reforms , including ending the popular election of governors .
Mr. Putin said he is not " ecstatic about what 's going in the United States , " but he said he considers President Bush " a very decent person . "
Mr. Putin repeated again that he will not run for a third term as president .
Costa Rican President Abel Pacheco has declared a national emergency in response to three days of heavy rains that forced thousands of residents along the country 's Caribbean coast to flee their homes .
Authorities say about 7,500 Costa Ricans were affected by the storms , which left at least one person dead .
An eight-year-old boy and four members of the same family are also reported missing .
Homes and rivers have been flooded and at least a dozen bridges destroyed in the Central American nation .
The heavy downpours also left neighboring Panama waterlogged .
Officials there say the severe weather - which also caused widespread flooding - is expected to continue for another 24 hours .
Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire , Iraq was occupied by Britain during the course of World War I ; in 1920 , it was declared a League of Nations mandate under UK administration .
In stages over the next dozen years , Iraq attained its independence as a kingdom in 1932 .
A " republic " was proclaimed in 1958 , but in actuality a series of strongmen ruled the country until 2003 .
The last was SADDAM Husayn .
Territorial disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive and costly eight-year war ( 1980 - 88 ) .
In August 1990 , Iraq seized Kuwait but was expelled by US-led , UN coalition forces during the Gulf War of January-February 1991 .
Following Kuwait 's liberation , the UN Security Council ( UNSC ) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN verification inspections .
Continued Iraqi noncompliance with UNSC resolutions over a period of 12 years led to the US-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003 and the ouster of the SADDAM Husayn regime .
US forces remained in Iraq under a UNSC mandate through 2009 and under a bilateral security agreement thereafter , helping to provide security and to train and mentor Iraqi security forces .
In October 2005 , Iraqis approved a constitution in a national referendum and , pursuant to this document , elected a 275-member Council of Representatives ( CoR ) in December 2005 .
The CoR approved most cabinet ministers in May 2006 , marking the transition to Iraq 's first constitutional government in nearly a half century .
In January 2009 , Iraq held elections for provincial councils in all provinces except for the three provinces comprising the Kurdistan Regional Government and Kirkuk province .
Iraq held a national legislative election in March 2010 , and after nine months of deadlock the CoR approved the new government in December 2010 .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has returned home , three weeks after undergoing gallbladder surgery in a German hospital .
The 81-year-old leader arrived at an airport in Sharm el-Sheikh Saturday , and was greeted by senior government officials .
Authorities said Mr. Mubarak resumes his presidential duties upon his return to Egypt .
President Mubarak temporarily handed over power to Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif before undergoing surgery in Heidelberg , Germany on March 6 .
Doctors removed his gall bladder and a growth in his small intestine .
He has served as Egypt 's president for more than two decades .
The first stage of jury selection in the child molestation trial of pop superstar Michael Jackson has been completed .
Judge Rodney Melville ended the initial questioning Tuesday after selecting 250 candidates .
When they return to court next Monday , the candidates will fill out a seven-page questionnaire designed to help the judge and lawyers whittle the group down to 12 members and eight alternates .
Jackson is accused of sexually molesting a teenage boy , then 13 , now 15 , at the singer 's Neverland ranch in the southern California town of Santa Maria .
The singer has pleaded not guilty and predicted he will be acquitted .
In 1993 Jackson paid $ 23.3 million to settle a child-molestation case out of court .
The U.S. central bank raised a key interest rate one-quarter of a percent ( to 2.25 ) Tuesday in a bid to fend off future inflation .
It is the fifth time since June that Federal Reserve officials have raised rates in a campaign to tighten credit at a " measured " pace .
Raising interest rates increases the cost of borrowing , which slows economic growth and helps curb inflation .
Earlier , Fed officials had cut rates to 40-year lows in an effort to help boost the U.S. economy out of an economic slump .
Many economists now predict the Fed will continue gradually raising interest rates until they reach a " neutral " level where they neither stimulate nor slow U.S. economic growth .
More Iraqi Kurdish witnesses have testified in the genocide trial of former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein .
One witness told the court Wednesday , how Saddam 's forces gunned down Kurdish detainees who thought they were being taken to another detention center .
The witness said he survived the slaughter by running and falling into a ditch that he said was full of bodies .
Prosecutors say Iraqi forces killed more than 180,000 Kurds in the 1988 Anfal campaign in northern Iraq .
The former dictator and seven co-defendants are facing charges of crimes against humanity , including murder and torture .
On Tuesday , the judge agreed to allow the return of defense attorneys who have boycotted proceedings because of alleged government interference .
But it was not clear if defense lawyers attended Wednesday 's court session .
Dario Franchitti of Scotland has steered to victory at the 91st running of the rain-shortened Indianapolis 500 race in Indiana .
After an earlier interruption due to rain , a hard downpour drenched the track for a second time Sunday , ending the race on the 165th lap - 35 laps short of the scheduled distance around the famed four-kilometer oval .
Rolling with a cut tire , Franchitti had only enough fuel for 10 more laps .
But with rain looming , Franchitti 's team gambled and kept him on the track while other drivers stopped for fuel .
Scott Dixon placed second and Ryan Briscoe was third .
Brazilian Tony Kanaan led the race before the first rain delay - a three-hour stop at lap 113 of 200 .
A flat tire after the re-start cost Kanaan a chance for his first Indy win .
The race also featured a handful of spectacular crashes , but with no serious injuries .
Iraqi security officials say gunmen have killed a lawyer representing Saddam Hussein 's codefendants on charges of crimes against humanity .
Tuesday 's drive-by attack in Baghdad was the second assassination of a defense lawyer in the trial in less than three weeks .
The latest victim was defending Saddam 's former vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan .
A second lawyer was wounded .
Following the attack , attorneys for Saddam Hussein are calling for the trial to be moved to another country and for their security to be guaranteed .
In other violence Tuesday , coalition forces killed two insurgents in Ramadi .
Roadside bombs killed two policemen and an Iraqi security official elsewhere in the country .
And Iraqi President Jalal Talabani met in Rome with Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and thanked him for sending troops to Iraq .
German officials have ordered cats to be kept indoors and dogs to be kept on leashes in areas hit by the deadly strain of the bird flu virus .
The action comes after tests showed that a cat found dead in the northern island of Ruegen was infected with the H5N1 virus .
Experts say the cat probably ate an infected bird , the same way big cats in Asia have contracted the disease .
It was the first mammal in the European Union to be infected with H5N1 .
The German government has imposed the restriction on cats and dogs within a three-kilometer radius of where infected birds were found .
The World Health Organization says it is not known if cats can infect humans .
An organization statement says there has been no documented case of such a transmission .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber has detonated explosives at a funeral procession , killing at least 10 people .
The attack Sunday in the town of Tikrit also injured about 20 others .
In Baghdad , some 3,700 extra U.S. troops began patrolling the streets in an effort to reduce deadly sectarian violence in the Iraqi capital .
The reinforcements were assigned to mostly Sunni neighborhoods in western Baghdad after completing a mission in northern Iraq .
Iraq has been engulfed in a wave of sectarian violence between Shi'ite and Sunni Arabs since the February bombing of a Shi'ite mosque in Samarra .
Authorities say the sectarian violence has displaced more than 180,000 people .
A sixth contingent of Salvadoran troops is headed to Iraq for humanitarian work .
Officials say the soldiers left a military base near San Salvador Friday .
Salvadoran troops have helped build schools and medical clinics in addition to drinking water wells in Iraq .
El Salvador is the only Latin American country that still has a military presence in Iraq .
The latest deployment comes two weeks before Salvadoran President Elias Antonio Saca is due to visit Washington for talks with President Bush .
The two leaders are expected to discuss issues that include the war on terrorism , promoting and defending democracy in the Western Hemisphere , and expanding free trade and economic growth .
The United Nations Security Council has endorsed a call for talks on the political future of the breakaway Serbian Province of Kosovo .
In a formal statement released in New York Monday , the Security Council said it supports Secretary-General Kofi Annan 's call for such talks .
The United Nations has administered Kosovo since 1999 , since NATO air strikes against Yugoslavia forced Yugoslav and Serbian security forces from the area .
Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian majority seeks independence , but Serbian authorities want the province to remain part of Serbia .
Officials in Afghanistan say NATO and Afghan troops killed 15 Taliban militants during separate raids in the country 's south .
A defense ministry statement says the clashes took place Saturday in the Zhari district of Kandahar province .
Afghan , NATO and U.S. troops are fighting a resurgent Taliban and other rebels who have strongholds in the southern and eastern parts of the country .
Also on Saturday , Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says police arrested a Taliban commander who was responsible for organizing attacks on U.S. , NATO and Afghan forces .
The ministry says Abdul Jabar was arrested while traveling towards Pakistan .
He served as deputy to captured militant leader Mullah Mansoor Dadullah .
A senior Chinese justice official has acknowledged that almost every defendant wrongfully convicted of a crime in recent years was tortured to extract a confession .
China 's official Xinhua news agency quotes the deputy chief prosecutor , Wang Zhenchuan , as saying that at least 30 people every year are wrongfully convicted because of torture , and the actual number could be higher .
Wang was speaking Sunday at a legal seminar in southern China 's Hainan province .
China 's top prosecutors have been leading a campaign to crack down on police who use illegal interrogation methods to get confessions of guilt from suspected criminals .
In March , Beijing introduced new guidelines that require police to make audio and video recordings of all interrogations involving major cases , such as murder and gang violence .
Special U.N. investigator Manfred Nowak has said torture is on the decline in China , but remains widespread .
The Iranian parliament has voted to bar international inspectors from Iran 's nuclear facilities , if the International Atomic Energy Agency refers Tehran 's nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The bill passed Sunday in a televised vote also directs engineers to restart Iran 's controversial nuclear enrichment program if the IAEA referral occurs .
The United States and Europe have accused Iran of seeking highly enriched , weapons-grade uranium to build an atomic weapon .
But Tehran says its nuclear program is aimed at developing electricity .
The 35-member IAEA board meets Thursday to consider further action on the U.S.-European push to refer Iran to the Security Council .
Last week , the IAEA said Iran has had detailed designs since 1987 for what could be the metal core of an atomic bomb .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton will tour Africa next week to boost support for the continent 's battle against AIDS .
Mr. Clinton will travel to Mozambique , Lesotho , South Africa , Tanzania , Kenya and Rwanda .
The head of the Clinton Foundation AIDS Initiative told the French news agency that Mr. Clinton plans to meet with political and religious leaders throughout his tour in an effort to break down lingering resistance to expanding AIDS initiatives .
While in South Africa , Mr. Clinton will also celebrate the 87th birthday of former President Nelson Mandela .
His travels follow an African tour by U.S. First Lady Laura Bush , who is also highlighting the efforts to combat AIDS .
This week , Mrs. Bush is visiting South Africa , Tanzania , and Rwanda .
France says it will soon lift restrictions on workers from eight formerly communist countries that joined the European Union in 2004 .
President Nicolas Sarkozy announced the upcoming move Wednesday at a news conference in Warsaw with Polish President Lech Kaczynski .
Poland is one of the countries set to benefit from the French move .
After the European alliance was enlarged , citizens from the East European members - in addition to Poland , the Czech Republic , Estonia , Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Slovenia and Slovakia - did not have unrestricted access to jobs in France and some other Western nations .
The French move , set for July 1 , will fall on the day France assumes the rotating EU presidency for a six-month period .
The two presidents also signed a declaration of strategic partnership , aimed at boosting bilateral cooperation in energy , agricultural and defense sectors .
The United Nations Security Council has voted unanimously to extend the mandate of the U.S.-led multinational forces in Iraq .
A resolution passed Tuesday , on a 15-0 vote , extends the mandate by one year , through December 31 , 2006 .
The measure requires a Security Council review of the mandate by June 2006 , and says the council can terminate the mandate at any time if requested to do so by the Iraqi government .
In remarks to the council Tuesday , the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , John Bolton , said the extension will give the Iraqi government time to consolidate its authority .
The Security Council established the U.S.-led coalition 's mandate in June 2004 , about 15 months after the invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein .
Iraq 's interim Prime Minister Ibrahim Jafari had asked the council for an extension last month .
The push to become more environmentally friendly is gaining momentum in the Washington area .
The first all-hybrid taxicab fleet in the U.S. recently opened for business just outside the nation 's capital .
VOA 's Ernest Leong reports business for Envirocab is great - which is good news for their bottom line and the environment .
Russian President Vladimir Putin , who leaves office in two weeks , says Russia 's foreign policy will retain continuity and will remain predictable after his departure .
The Itar-Tass news agency quotes Mr. Putin as telling newly-posted ambassadors to Moscow that recent legislative and presidential elections show overwhelming support for established foreign policy .
He also said Tuesday that Russia values " frank dialogue " with foreign governments in the search for " mutually acceptable " decisions .
The pro-Putin United Russia Party emerged victorious in parliamentary and presidential elections .
However , key opposition figures accused the Kremlin of eliminating any credible opposition months before the balloting Mr. Putin 's handpicked successor , Dmitri Medvedev , who takes office May 7 , won 70 percent of the vote in the March 2 presidential poll .
Mr. Putin is expected to become Russia 's prime minister when he leaves the presidency .
Taiwan conducted a military ground exercise Monday , pitting two units against each other .
At least 1,600 soldiers were involved in the mock battle that simulated an invasion of the island .
The exercise came as tensions across the Taiwan Strait simmered , with Beijing worried that Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian could push for a formal break from the mainland before his second term ends in 2008 .
China has threatened to attack if Taiwan declares independence .
The rivalry between Taiwan and China , separated by the narrow Taiwan Strait , is seen as one of the most dangerous flashpoints in Asia .
The two have been adversaries since a civil war ended on the mainland in 1949 .
Afghanistan and Pakistan have destroyed more than 80 tons of opium , heroin and hashish to mark the United Nations ' International Day Against Drug Abuse .
Afghan officials say anti-drug forces Sunday destroyed some 60 tons of opium , heroin and hashish across the country .
They say the largest stockpile was destroyed in Kabul , with 13 tons of opium , nine tons of hashish , two tons of heroin and six tons of other narcotics burned .
In neighboring Pakistan , authorities in Karachi set fire to more than 20 tons of illegal narcotics seized by coast guards .
Drug traffickers often use Pakistan as a transit point for drugs destined mainly for lucrative markets in Europe .
Pakistani authorities believe most of the drugs originate in Afghanistan , the world 's largest producer of opium .
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts , and each were by turns the conquerors .
A Bat , fearing the uncertain issues of the fight , always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest .
When peace was proclaimed , his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants .
Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery , he was driven forth from the light of day , and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places , flying always alone and at night .
He winds up friendless who plays both sides against the middle
The outgoing international mediator in Bosnia-Herzegovina says the country is on its way to integrating with the rest of Europe , and the West must abandon what he called " coercion and imposition " as it pushes for reform .
Paddy Ashdown made the comment in a speech to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) in Vienna .
He is to leave his post at the beginning of next year .
Mr. Ashdown told the meeting the phase of intensive and intrusive state building in Bosnia must come to an end .
The mediator said Bosnia 's education system needs improvement , calling it a bulwark against ethnic , religious , cultural and any other kind of prejudice or segregation .
Bosnia and the European Union recently opened talks on stabilization and association agreement , which is considered a step toward EU candidacy .
Since independence from Portugal in 1974 , Guinea-Bissau has experienced considerable political and military upheaval .
In 1980 , a military coup established authoritarian dictator Joao Bernardo ' Nino ' VIEIRA as president .
Despite setting a path to a market economy and multiparty system , VIEIRA 's regime was characterized by the suppression of political opposition and the purging of political rivals .
Several coup attempts through the 1980s and early 1990s failed to unseat him .
In 1994 VIEIRA was elected president in the country 's first free elections .
A military mutiny and resulting civil war in 1998 eventually led to VIEIRA 's ouster in May 1999 .
In February 2000 , a transitional government turned over power to opposition leader Kumba YALA after he was elected president in transparent polling .
In September 2003 , after only three years in office , YALA was ousted by the military in a bloodless coup , and businessman Henrique ROSA was sworn in as interim president .
In 2005 , former President VIEIRA was re-elected president pledging to pursue economic development and national reconciliation ; he was assassinated in March 2009 .
Malam Bacai SANHA was elected in an emergency election held in June 2009 .
The lawyer for jailed Iranian-American Roxana Saberi says he is optimistic about her fate , saying the Iranian appeal court 's atmosphere was " favorable " when he presented her defense .
Saberi 's lawyer Abdolsamad Khorramshahi said he expects the court in Tehran to make its decision regarding Saberi 's eight-year prison sentence within the next few days .
The 32-year-old freelance journalist was found guilty last month on charges of espionage .
Her family and the U.S. government say the charges against her are baseless .
Saberi 's father Reza Saberi says the journalist ended a hunger strike Monday at Evin prison after refusing to eat for nearly two weeks .
Witnesses to Sunday 's closed-door proceedings say Saberi appeared tired and thin when she arrived at the courthouse .
Iran has criticized international involvement in the case , saying the judiciary is independent and outside interference contradicts international norms .
Although first sighted by an English navigator in 1592 , the first landing ( English ) did not occur until almost a century later in 1690 , and the first settlement ( French ) was not established until 1764 .
The colony was turned over to Spain two years later and the islands have since been the subject of a territorial dispute , first between Britain and Spain , then between Britain and Argentina .
The UK asserted its claim to the islands by establishing a naval garrison there in 1833 .
Argentina invaded the islands on 2 April 1982 .
The British responded with an expeditionary force that landed seven weeks later and after fierce fighting forced an Argentine surrender on 14 June 1982 .
The head of a British charity in western Sudan has left the country due to visa problems , only weeks after Khartoum threatened to expel him over his group 's activities .
A spokesman for the aid group Oxfam says director Shaun Skelton is now seeking to return to Sudan .
He added the group remains committed to giving humanitarian aid to 800,000 people affected by violence between rebels and pro-government forces in the Darfur region .
Last month , Sudan 's government ordered Mr. Skelton and the head of another charity to leave Sudan in 48 hours .
It accused them of violating a ban on political activities , including making critical statements against the government .
Officials later suspended the order for humanitarian reasons .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko says Ukraine does not owe money to Russia 's state-owned natural gas company Gazprom .
The chief supplier of natural gas to Ukraine says Kyiv owes $ 1.3 billion .
It is threatening to cut supplies to Ukraine unless it is paid .
Gazprom chief Dmitry Medvedev said after talks Wednesday in Moscow with Ukrainian Energy Minister Yury Boiko said that Ukraine has agreed to pay the debt .
But President Yushchenko said in Berlin that his government has no debts to Gazprom .
A price dispute between Ukraine and Gazprom in 2006 led to a cutoff of gas shipments to Ukraine .
It also caused a severe natural gas shortage in the European Union , as the pipelines pass through Ukraine to the EU states .
The mothers of three American hikers detained in Iran are pleading for them to be freed before this month 's one year anniversary of their arrest .
The mothers said Thursday they have sent a letter to the head of Iran 's judiciary calling for their children to be released from , as they put it , " their unjust and arbitrary detention " before the July 31 anniversary of their capture .
Iranian security forces arrested Shane Bauer , Sarah Shourd and Josh Fattal along the Iran-Iraq border last year .
Family members say the trio may have accidentally strayed across the border into Iran .
However , Iranian officials have accused the three of spying .
The U.S. military says soldiers killed 24 insurgents in Iraq who attacked coalition troops on the outskirts of Baghdad Sunday .
Six coalition troops were wounded in the fighting .
Another insurgent attack killed a U.S. soldier in Kirkuk .
Meanwhile , in Mosul , a suicide bomber killed a top Iraqi anti-corruption official in an attack claimed by al-Qaida-linked militants .
Hours later , unidentified gunmen fired on cars in his funeral procession , killing two mourners .
And in Samarra , gunmen killed a policeman who was walking to work .
In other developments , Iraq temporarily recalled its ambassador to Jordan on Sunday .
The move came hours after Jordan called its top diplomat home from Baghdad for consultations after Shi'ite demonstrators raised an Iraqi flag over the Jordanian embassy .
Egypt says Palestinian militants were responsible for a series of rocket strikes on Israel and Jordan this week .
Egypt 's official MENA news agency reports Wednesday that Palestinian factions from the Gaza Strip launched five rockets Monday that struck the towns of Aqaba in Jordan and Eilat in Israel .
The attacks killed one Jordanian cab driver and injured at least four other people .
The Associated Press cited an Egyptian security official as saying debris from a misfired rocket was found in Egyptian territory .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas , which controls the Gaza Strip , denied the accusations that a Palestinian group was responsible .
A Hamas spokesman said no Palestinian faction operates outside the occupied territories .
Astronomers say they have found the first conclusive evidence of water outside our own solar system .
The scientists say they have found evidence of water vapor in the atmosphere of a giant planet , called HD 18933b , more than 60 light-years away .
One of the authors of the report , Giovanna Tinetti , a European Space Agency fellow , says the scientists are thrilled to have identified clear signs of water on a planet that is trillions of kilometers away .
The findings are published in Thursday 's edition of the journal Nature .
The astronomers say the planet is unlikely to support life as we know it .
It belongs to a classification of planets outside our solar system known as ' hot Jupiters ' and has an atmospheric temperature of more than 700 degrees Celsius .
At least five Palestinians have been killed and three others wounded by Israeli gunfire and rockets in the southern Gaza Strip .
Palestinian witnesses say the five Palestinians died in two separate overnight incidents near the Rafah crossing on the Egyptian border .
An Israeli military statement said the armed suspects appeared to be either smugglers or terrorists .
Hours later , three Palestinians were wounded in Gaza when an Israeli drone fired a missile at a car carrying a wanted militant .
The target of the attack , Popular Resistance Committees head Jamal Abu Samahdna , was among the wounded .
The Israeli military confirmed the attempt , saying the target has been linked to earlier attacks on Israelis .
Last week , Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Israel would not launch attacks or raids in the Palestinian territories in the runup to January ninth Palestinian elections , as long as the Jewish state is not provoked .
Afghan officials say villagers in northwestern Afghanistan have killed two Taliban militants .
Officials in Faryab province Thursday said militants were trying to abduct aid workers in Qaysar district on Wednesday when villagers confronted them , killing two , and forcing 10 others to flee .
One of the militants killed was reportedly a Taliban-appointed shadow governor for the province .
In central Afghanistan Thursday , the NATO-led coalition says its forces in Logar province killed a suspected Taliban militant , Mohammad Daud Rahimi , believed to have been involved in planning suicide bombings .
NATO and U.S.-led coalition forces have been fighting a Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan since 2001 , when the U.S. ousted the Islamist group from power .
The two presidential candidates in Georgia 's breakaway region of Abkhazia say they will run on a joint ticket in new elections .
The Russian news agency reported Sunday that opposition leader Sergei Bagapsh will run as president with former Prime Minister Raul Khadzhimba as his vice president .
The surprise announcement ends a tense political standoff between the two men .
After weeks of wrangling over the October 3 election result , Mr. Bagapsh had vowed to hold his own presidential inauguration on Monday , despite Mr. Khadzhimba 's refusal to concede defeat .
Russia threatened to close its borders with Abkhazia if the inauguration proceeded and demanded a new election .
The pro-Russian enclave has run its own affairs since driving out Georgian forces in the early 1990s .
Nicaragua , the poorest country in Central America and the second poorest in the Hemisphere , has widespread underemployment and poverty .
The US-Central America Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA ) has been in effect since April 2006 and has expanded export opportunities for many agricultural and manufactured goods .
Textiles and apparel account for nearly 60 % of Nicaragua 's exports , but increases in the minimum wage during the ORTEGA administration will likely erode its comparative advantage in this industry .
ORTEGA 's promotion of mixed business initiatives , owned by the Nicaraguan and Venezuelan state oil firms , together with the weak rule of law , could undermine the investment climate for domestic and international private firms in the near-term .
Nicaragua relies on international economic assistance to meet internal- and external-debt financing obligations .
Foreign donors have curtailed this funding , however , in response to November 2008 electoral fraud .
Managua has an IMF extended Credit Facility program , which could help keep the government 's fiscal deficit on target during the 2011 election year and encourage transparency in the use of Venezuelan off-budget loans and assistance .
In early 2004 , Nicaragua secured some $ 4.5 billion in foreign debt reduction under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) initiative , however , Managua still struggles with a high public debt burden .
Nicaragua is gradually recovering from the global economic crisis as increased exports drove positive growth in 2010 .
The economy is expected to grow at a rate of about 3 % in 2011 .
Iran says it could resume sensitive nuclear activities as soon as Monday after failing to receive a new European proposal to abandon certain nuclear technologies .
Iranian officials said Sunday they would start uranium conversion work at Isfahan if the European Union did not submit a new offer .
But Britain , which has been negotiating with Iran along with France and Germany , says the new proposals will be ready later this week .
British officials urged Iran not to take any steps that could jeopardize the talks over its nuclear program .
Iran agreed to suspend uranium conversion and enrichment under international pressure last November .
The European Union has been working on a package of economic and political incentives in exchange for Iran permanently suspending its uranium-enrichment activities .
The United States has accused Iran of seeking nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program has strictly peaceful intentions .
A United Nations human rights envoy says Israel is largely responsible for the deteriorating humanitarian situation for Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank .
U.N. envoy John Dugard told the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva Tuesday that Israel has turned the Gaza Strip into a prison where three-quarters of the residents are dependent on food aid .
He said life for citizens in Gaza is " intolerable " and " tragic . "
Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva Itzhak Levanon rejected the allegations .
He said the report does not reflect reality and places the entire blame on Israel .
Dugard also criticized the United States , Canada and the European Union for withdrawing funding to the Palestinian Authority in protest of the views of its governing party Hamas .
Hamas refuses to accept Israel 's right to exist .
The nice thing about being senile is you can hide your own Easter eggs .
The trial of deposed Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and seven co-defendants accused of crimes against humanity resumed Monday in Baghdad .
Controversy immediately engulfed the proceedings when one of Saddam 's defense attorneys was ejected after an argument with the judge , Rauf Abdel Rahman .
Lebanese lawyer Bushra Khalil had just returned to court after a long absence following her earlier ejection last month for disrupting the proceedings .
The judge also got into a shouting match Monday with Saddam when the ousted leader challenged the removal of his lawyer .
Saddam gave a defiant statement that he was still president of Iraq .
The judge rebuked Saddam , saying he was a defendant and no longer president .
Witness testimony was expected on behalf of former revolutionary court judge Awad al-Bandar , who sentenced 148 Shi'ites from Dujail to death after an attempt on Saddam 's life in 1982 .
Iraq 's interim defense minister has lashed out at neighbors Iran and Syria , accusing them of aiding wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and Saddam Hussein loyalists in Iraq .
In a speech Wednesday , Hazem al-Shaalan singled out Iran as his country 's " number one enemy . "
He then accused Iranian , Syrian and former Iraqi intelligence agents of cooperating with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror network by financing and training terrorists .
Mr. al-Shaalan said Iraqi authorities obtained information about Iran 's role in Iraq after a leader of the Jaish Mohammed terrorist group was arrested in Fallujah last month .
At the White House , President Bush warned Iran and Syria that " meddling in the internal affairs of Iraq is not in their interest . "
Both Iran and Syria have previously rejected U.S. and Iraqi claims that they support the insurgency .
Our local Eden Corn Festival is this weekend .
My favorite part is the crowning of the Corn Queen , otherwise know as Queened Corn .
All the girls are absolutely beautiful - not a hominy one in the bunch .
The winner is usually a fairly husky girl - the thin as a stalk types do n't seem to win .
And it helps to wear really flashy earrings .
They present her with a lovely peach cobbler for a prize .
One year some folks thought the contest was fixed , but they could n't come up with a kernal of evidence !
The Israeli military has restored a ban on Palestinian security forces carrying weapons in the West Bank , three days after the funeral of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
The Israeli military had suspended the ban for Mr. Arafat 's burial and its immediate aftermath .
In a separate development , the successor to Yasser Arafat as chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization escaped a deadly exchange of gunfire Sunday in Gaza City .
Gunmen from Mr. Arafat 's Fatah movement burst into a tent set up to mourn their late leader , and fired shots in the air to protest a visit by Mahmoud Abbas .
He is a contender to succeed Mr. Arafat in presidential elections on Jan. 9 .
Mr. Abbas ' bodyguards hustled him away unharmed before guards and gunmen clashed , leaving two security guards dead .
Japan 's Emperor Akihito has issued a new year 's message , reflecting on the people who died in World War II and stressing the importance of their sacrifice .
The emperor said in a written message that 3,100,000 Japanese people died in the war , and that many foreigners were also victims .
The emperor says the Japan of today was built on the sacrifice of those people .
The statement follows a year in which China and South Korea repeatedly criticized Japan for failing to atone for its militaristic past .
The criticism was heightened by Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visit to Tokyo 's Yasukuni Shrine , which honors the Japanese war dead including convicted war criminals .
The party of Burmese pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi is urging voters to reject a proposed new constitution conceived by the country 's ruling military regime .
The National League for Democracy issued a statement Wednesday calling on citizens to vote " no " when the charter comes up for approval in a referendum scheduled for May .
General elections will be held in 2010 .
International critics have denounced the proposed constitution , saying it solidifies the military junta 's hold on power .
The draft charter also bars Aung San Suu Kyi from the elections , on the grounds that she was once married to a foreigner , a British citizen who died of cancer in 1999 .
Aung San Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy party won Burma 's last general elections in 1990 , but the country 's military leaders ignored the result .
Afghan officials say at least 27 people were killed when a suicide bomber detonated explosives in a crowded area in southern Helmand province .
At least 45 other people were wounded .
NATO officials say the bomber was driving a motorized rickshaw when he blew himself up next to a bus station .
An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman , General Mohammad Zahir Azimi , says a local police commander who survived the attack appeared to have been the target of the blast , which killed 13 other policemen .
The explosion in the town of Gereshk , in Helmand province , is considered one of the deadliest in Afghanistan this year .
NATO says that Afghan security forces have been deployed to secure the area around the site of the attack .
Bomb blasts killed at least 20 people in Iraq Wednesday , and the U.S. military urged Iraqi political leaders to increase efforts to stem the bloodshed .
Iraqi security officials say a car bomb blast in a Shi'ite neighborhood in eastern Baghdad killed at least 10 people and wounded 25 others .
Later , two car bombs exploded in another eastern suburb , killing five day laborers and wounding 10 others .
In the town of Riyadh , some 50 kilometers south of Kirkuk , suicide car bombers attacked an Iraqi army base and killed at least five soldiers and wounded 10 others .
In a village south of Baghdad , gunmen stormed a house and killed nine members of a Shi'ite family .
U.S. military spokesman Major General William Caldwell warned that the upsurge in violence will continue unless Iraqi political leaders make a greater effort to overcome their differences .
The Venezuelan government has seized about 330,000 hectares of land it considers idle from 16 estates for use as collective farms .
President Hugo Chavez announced the seizures Sunday on his weekly Hello , President television show .
He said the land will be mostly used to raise cattle for meat and milk production .
He did not elaborate on how the collectivization of the property would work , but said the land belongs to everyone and will benefit everyone .
Mr. Chavez said the move is part of a program to do away with large private estates .
Mr. Chavez began nationalizing privately-owned industries when he began his second term of office this year in an attempt to turn Venezuela into a socialist state .
In February , he ordered the nationalization of oil projects run by foreign companies .
He had already taken control of a foreign-run telecommunications company and an electric power company .
Thousands of tsunami victims in Sri Lanka are slowly returning to government-run centers a day after flash floods forced them out .
The floods are also slowing down relief efforts .
Aid convoys continue to have difficulty reaching some of the hardest-hit areas on the devastated eastern coast .
Health officials say they are bracing for outbreaks of contagious diseases as hundreds of thousands of displaced people live in unsanitary conditions and lack clean drinking water .
Aid continues to arrive from other countries .
The first contingent of 1,500 U.S. Marines , along with a ship carrying 20 helicopters , are due to arrive in Sri Lanka later Sunday .
The Marines will operate from an offshore platform south of the port city of Galle .
Poland 's parliament has overwhelmingly passed a bill approving ratification of the new European Union treaty after weeks of political infighting .
Lawmakers in the lower house voted 384 to 56 Tuesday to adopt the charter , which replaces the much-maligned EU constitution rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005 .
Poland 's upper house is expected to pass the bill Wednesday and President Lech Kaczynski is expected to sign it .
The approval follows weeks of wrangling between Poland 's pro-European government and the nationalist opposition , which argued the EU Treaty will limit Polish sovereignty .
To resolve the dispute , lawmakers adopted a separate resolution saying the Polish constitution has supremacy over the EU charter .
The EU Treaty requires the approval of all 27 member countries .
France , Hungary , Slovenia , Malta and Romania have already ratified the treaty , which is designed to streamline decision-making and unify the bloc 's foreign policy objectives .
A RICH Man wanted to tell a certain lie , but the lie was of such monstrous size that it stuck in his throat ; so he employed an Editor to write it out and publish it in his paper as an editorial .
But when the Editor presented his bill , the Rich Man said : " Be content - is it nothing that I refrained from advising you about investments ? "
Russia and China are conducting three days of joint anti-terrorism exercises in Moscow .
The event began Tuesday with a simulation of a hostage situation in an administrative building , complete with attackers wearing helmets and carrying weapons .
The exercises are a followup to large-scale maneuvers last month that involved not just Russia and China but also forces from Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan , Tajikistan , and Uzbekistan .
Those exercises were held near Chelyabinsk in Russia , near the border with Kazakhstan .
President Bush has chosen federal appeals court Judge Samuel Alito as his new nominee for the United States Supreme Court .
Speaking at the White House Monday , the president described Mr. Alito as a man of " enormous character " who has shown mastery of the law and a deep commitment to justice .
The nominee takes the place of White House counsel Harriet Miers , who withdrew her nomination last week after pressure from some of the president 's conservative supporters .
Unlike Ms. Miers , Mr. Alito has a reputation as a solid conservative jurist , and has served 15 years as a judge on the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals .
The nomination is likely to set off an intense political struggle .
If approved by the Senate , Mr. Alito would replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , a moderate who has often been the deciding vote in cases dealing with abortion and other contentious issues .
Thousands of mourners in Azerbaijan have turned out for the funeral of magazine editor Elmar Husseinov , who was gunned down earlier in the week .
Opposition supporters gathered for the funeral procession Friday protested what they say are oppressive media conditions .
Mr. Husseinov worked for the weekly Monitor , which has been critical of the government .
He had previously been fined and jailed for his work .
He was found shot to death outside his apartment in Baku Wednesday .
The United States has sent an FBI agent to help find those responsible for the killing .
President Ilham Aliyev ordered a swift investigation into the attack , calling it a serious provocation against the state and authority .
Media groups , including the Committee to Protect Journalists and Reporters Without Borders , have condemned the killing and expressed concern about what they describe as government harassment and repression of the media .
Cuba 's communist party newspaper is signaling a crackdown on black-market satellite dishes used by citizens to get news from the United States .
The newspaper Granma said satellite television programming from the United States carries out the objectives of those who want to destroy the spirit of Cuba 's 1959 communist revolution .
As the official voice of the Havana government , such articles in the past have signaled imminent government action .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes witnesses as saying a government hunt for some of the clandestine dishes has already begun .
Last week , Cuban President Fidel Castro , 79 , provisionally surrendered power to his brother , Raul , after undergoing what has been described as stomach surgery .
The Cuban population has since been eager for information .
Neither Castro has appeared in public since the announcement .
Campaigning has ended in Iran 's closely contested presidential election , but analysts expect Friday 's poll to produce no outright winner without a runoff election .
Supporters of rival candidates campaigned in Tehran early Thursday morning , in a last minute effort to win over undecided voters .
Several hundred pro-reform demonstrators marched in the capital , calling for a boycott of the polls .
Police later dispersed the protesters .
Mohsen Rezaei , seated , registers as a presidential candidate in Tehran , May 11 ; he later dropped out of the race Opinion polls show former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani is leading in the race to replace President Mohammad Khatami , who is barred from running for a third consecutive term .
Mr. Rafsanjani 's main rivals are top reform candidate Mostafa Moin and the conservative former national police chief Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf .
Three hard-line conservatives are still in the race after a fourth dropped out Wednesday .
An official in southern Sudan says Ugandan soldiers were responsible for a recent attack in the region that left at least one person dead .
The accusation was made by the vice president of semi-autonomous southern Sudan , Riek Machar .
He said Ugandan forces must leave the region .
Machar said an investigation shows that Ugandan soldiers were responsible for an attack last month on a homestead in the town of Nyongwa .
One person was abducted during that attack and later killed .
Initial reports said rebels of the Ugandan Lord 's Resistance Army ( LRA ) were behind the attack .
There has been no Ugandan government reaction to Machar 's accusation .
However , a Ugandan army spokesman , Major Paddy Ankunda , is quoted by Bloomberg news service as saying Ugandan forces are in southern Sudan to pursue LRA rebels .
China 's Commerce Ministry says major differences remain between Beijing and Washington over textile exports after two days of talks on the issue in San Francisco , California earlier this week .
A statement Thursday on the ministry 's website said Chinese officials are hopeful future talks will yield an agreement .
The meetings focused on U.S. limits on Chinese imports intended to protect American clothing manufacturers from low-cost competition .
Chinese products flooded the market this year after global trade quotas expired .
U.S. textile manufacturers complain they have lost 26,000 jobs to cheap Chinese imports .
But American retailers argue that sharp limits on low-cost imports could cost U.S. consumers $ 6 billion in higher clothing bills annually .
That works out to about $ 20 a person in the United States .
The United States has condemned the multiple explosions that struck in the Indian capital , New Delhi on Saturday .
In a statement released late Saturday , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice described the deadly blasts as a heinous act that deliberately targeted innocent civilians preparing for holiday celebrations .
She said fighting terrorism is a struggle shared around the world and that the United States stands with India as it seeks to bring the guilty to justice .
Elsewhere , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said he was appalled by the crime and urged authorities to prosecute those responsible .
In Pakistan , the Minister for Information and Broadcasting , Sheikh Rashid Ahmad , said his country is shocked at what he called an act of barbarism .
Japan 's foreign ministry called the attacks a cowardly act .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and Chinese President Hu Jintao also condemned the attacks .
U.S. Vice President Joe Biden says U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan are making what he called " measurable progress " against al-Qaida , as the United States increases its military presence there .
Speaking in the midwestern American city of Indianapolis Monday , Biden said international troops must deny al-Qaida safe haven and reverse the momentum of the Taliban .
The vice president said the latest phase is " only beginning " and promised the situation in Afghanistan will be reassessed in December .
Meanwhile , the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan says four troops were killed in separate incidents in the country Monday .
One of the soldiers was Hungarian and two were French .
The Associated Press reports the other soldier was American .
Two soldiers died in an attack by insurgents in eastern Afghanistan , while the other two casualties resulted from roadside bomb blasts elsewhere .
Indonesian officials say several Southeast Asian nations have agreed to send observers to monitor a peace agreement for Indonesia 's Aceh province .
The officials say Brunei , Malaysia , the Philippines , Singapore , and Thailand have agreed to participate in the observer mission .
Indonesian Foreign Minister Hassan Wirayuda had made a formal request for monitors at the meeting in Laos of the Association of Southeast Asian nations .
The peace agreement between the Free Aceh Movement rebel group and the Indonesian government is scheduled to be signed on August 15 .
The two sides reached the agreement earlier this month at talks in Finland .
Under the accord , the rebel group is to disarm and give up its demands for independence in return for some form of political representation in Aceh .
Some inforamtion for this report provided by AP and AFP .
Meridian National Corp. said it sold 750,000 shares of its common stock to the McAlpine family interests , for $ 1 million , or $ 1.35 a share .
The sale represents 10.2 % of Meridian 's shares outstanding .
The McAlpine family , which operates a number of multinational companies , including a London-based engineering and construction company , also lent to Meridian National $ 500,000 .
That amount is convertible into shares of Meridian common stock at $ 2 a share during its one-year term .
The loan may be extended by the McAlpine group for an additional year with an increase in the conversion price to $ 2.50 a share .
The sale of shares to the McAlpine family along with the recent sale of 750,000 shares of Meridian stock to Haden MacLellan Holding PLC of Surrey , England and a recent public offering have increased Meridian 's net worth to $ 8.5 million , said William Feniger , chief executive officer of Toledo , Ohio-based Meridian .
A new study says the gap between what men and women earn is closing in some nations , but remains as wide as ever in others .
Monday 's report from The World Economic Forum ranks Sweden at the top of a list of 58 major nations .
But it notes that not even Sweden and its nordic neighbors have completely closed the gender gap .
Researchers examined women 's economic opportunity and participation , political power , education and health in order to come up with the rankings .
They placed the United States a poor 17th because of what they term inadequate child care , maternity leave and economic opportunity .
The researchers ranked Pakistan , Turkey and Egypt at the bottom of the list .
A leading Democratic U.S. senator has called on Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to explain why there is a critical shortage of protective equipment for American soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan .
In his party 's weekly radio address Saturday , Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois said the lack of armor in the battlefield is not a matter of logistics , but a lack of leadership .
He said lawmakers have provided the Bush administration with all the defense spending it has requested , but that most vehicles and many soldiers lack adequate protection .
Mr. Durbin 's remarks add to growing criticism of Mr. Rumsfeld by members of Congress for his handling of the war .
The White House has defended the defense secretary , with a spokesman saying Mr. Rumsfeld is doing a great job .
A new poll shows widespread disapproval of how President Bush and Democrats in Congress are handling the war in Iraq .
The Washington Post-ABC News survey indicates that 68 percent of the 1,125 respondents disagree with President Bush on Iraq .
A total of 63 percent disapprove of how Democrats in Congress have handled the war .
Nearly half of those polled said they believe Democrats have done " too little " to get President Bush to change his war strategy .
The nationwide poll , which was taken last week , has a 3-point margin of sampling error .
More than half of the respondents said they support legislation that would set a deadline for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq in the first months of 2008 .
Chinese leaders have completed an annual economic meeting with pledges to maintain stable fiscal policies to keep their rapidly-growing economy under control .
State media reported Sunday that Communist Party officials plan to tighten controls on fixed-asset investments , such as real estate , and try to increase agricultural output in the coming years .
They are concerned that without proper management , China 's fast-growing economy could suddenly collapse .
The report did not mention any changes in the fixed exchange rate for China 's currency , the yuan .
The United States has been pressuring China to lift controls on the exchange rate , saying it gives Chinese goods an unfair advantage in world markets .
Beijing has promised to change the policy but has not said when it will do so .
Cuba says it has resumed diplomatic contact with eight European Union countries that have stopped inviting dissidents to official embassy events .
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque announced the Cuban government 's decision at a news conference in Havana Monday .
Mr. Roque says Cuban authorities will start meeting with the ambassadors of the EU countries which include France , Germany and Britain .
Relations between Cuba and the European Union became strained in 2003 after the Cuban government cracked down on opposition to President Fidel Castro .
Seventy-five dissidents were arrested and imprisoned for lenghty jail terms .
Fourteen of them have been released .
The European Union began to reduce high-level government visits and invited dissidents to embassy gatherings .
THE LARK ( according to an ancient legend ) was created before the earth itself , and when her father died , as there was no earth , she could find no place of burial for him .
She let him lie uninterred for five days , and on the sixth day , not knowing what else to do , she buried him in her own head .
Hence she obtained her crest , which is popularly said to be her father 's grave-hillock .
Youth 's first duty is reverence to parents .
When it comes to entertainment earnings , men still dominate .
Forbes Magazine has just released its 2007 listing of the World 's Most Powerful Celebrities , with men on average earning nearly twice as much as their female counterparts .
Movie actor Tom Cruise ranks atop this year 's list , earning $ 67 million .
Rounding out the top five are , in descending order , rock singer Mick Jagger ; talk show hostess-producer Oprah Winfrey ; rock band U2 ; and golfer Tiger Woods .
The list measures both the stars ' earnings and their influence within their respective fields .
Movie industry analysts say men have the upper hand through career longevity and overall box-office appeal .
Iraqi police say a car bomb detonated by remote control has killed five people and injured 10 south of Baghdad .
Officials say the vehicle blew up on the roadside as an Iraqi police patrol passed by near the town of Haswa .
Meanwhile , a bodyguard of Iraq 's Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Chalabi was killed and three others wounded when gunmen ambushed their convoy south of Baghdad .
Iraqi police say Mr. Chalabi was not in the convoy .
Elsewhere , the U.S. military says four U.S. soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in southwest Baghdad late Saturday .
And the military reports killing 11 insurgents during a battle near the northwestern town of Haditha .
Five West African heads of state will travel to Togo Friday to pressure the military-installed government to return the nation to consitutional order , or face sanctions .
The delegation , made up of the presidents of Nigeria , Niger , Benin , Mali and Ghana , will demand Togo reverse constitutional changes , made shortly after President Gnassingbe Eyadema died on Saturday , that allow his son to serve out his term until 2008 .
West African leaders say Togo must respect the prior constitution which called for new elections within 60 days , and the temporary handing over of power to the spearker of the parliament in the event of the president 's death .
The Economic Community of West African States , ECOWAS , says it will not recognize the new government , calling the events in Togo a coup .
The new Togolese president , Faure Gnassingbe , has promised to hold general elections as soon as possible .
NATO officials in Afghanistan have urged the government to plan for parliamentary elections to take place soon to ensure there are enough troops to provide security .
NATO 's top civilian representative for Afghanistan , Hikmet Cetin , says the elections must take place by early July or risk conflicting with the next rotation of troops in the 8,000-strong International Security Assistance Force ISAF .
Mr. Cetin says if elections are not held by then , it would be better to postpone voting until September .
Turkey took control of ISAF Sunday from a French commander during a ceremony in Kabul .
It is the second six-month command for Turkey since the force was established after the U.S.-led overthrow of the Taleban in late 2001 .
Witnesses in Somalia say Islamist insurgents have seized control of Hudur , the capital of the Bakool region .
The insurgent group al-Shabab says on its Web site that its fighters entered Hudur early Friday after government-allied soldiers fled the town late Thursday .
The governor of Bakool confirmed in a phone interview with VOA 's Somali service that he and other officials have left the town .
The Bakool region borders Ethiopia , which has thousands of troops in Somalia supporting the country 's U.N.-backed administration led by President Abdullahi Yusuf .
Anti-government insurgents have captured other provincial towns in recent months but have usually withdrawn after a short time .
Islamists briefly controlled much of Somalia in 2006 before a joint offensive by the government and Ethiopia pushed them from power .
Insurgents have waged an 18-month effort to drive out the Ethiopians and topple the government .
French President Jacques Chirac has signaled he will probably not seek an unprecedented third term in this year 's presidential elections .
The 74-year-old president said in a TV interview to be broadcast on Sunday that there is life after politics .
In office since 1995 , Mr. Chirac said he hoped to continue to serve France but " in another capacity . "
As recently as last month , Mr. Chirac had indicated he was contemplating a new run at the presidency and would announce his intentions at a later date .
If he were to run , he must declare his candidacy before mid-March for the elections in April .
Polls have shown that a large majority of the French do not want Mr. Chirac to run again .
Mr. Chirac 's popularity ratings are low , and many in the French electorate view him as old and out of touch .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says North Korea may be ready to resume multi-party talks to defuse a crisis over its nuclear ambitions .
Mr. Powell told reporters en route to Chile for the APEC summit that the United States has seen signals coming out of North Korea where it said it never insisted the crisis be solved only through negotiations with the United States .
Earlier U.S. officials said Washington plans to take advantage of the summit , which begins Saturday , to discuss with China , Japan , South Korea and Russia ways of getting Pyongyang back to the negotiating table .
The six countries have held three rounds of talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
North Korea refused to attend a fourth round of talks planned for September because , experts believe , it was awaiting the outcome of the U.S. presidential election .
Iran 's judiciary says it is not ready to announce the verdicts of several al-Qaida members who Tehran says were tried and sentenced in the Islamic state .
An Iranian judiciary official said Tuesday the verdicts will only be released when all " legal obstacles are removed . "
He did not offer any details .
Iran has not said how many suspected al-Qaida members were on trial , or released details on the charges against them .
Iran denies accusations that it has become a haven for al-Qaida militants .
Two competing pharmaceutical companies say they are going to work together to develop the first once-a-day pill to treat HIV - the virus that causes AIDS .
Briston-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences announced Monday they will collaborate to combine three separate drugs currently on the market into a single-dose pill that will make it easier for patients to manage their medication routine .
Current treatment requires patients to take several pills a day .
Missing doses makes it easier for the virus to mutate and become resistant to medication .
The companies say the planned once-a-day pill will combine Briston-Myers ' drug , Sustiva , with two drugs by Gilead - Viread and Emtriva .
The medicines attack the AIDS virus at different points in its replication cycle .
There is no cure for AIDS or HIV .
The Russian Prosecutor General 's office is expected to carry out tests in Chechnya Wednesday to confirm Chechen Separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov 's reported death .
Russia 's Prosecutor General says forensic tests due Wednesday on the body of a man shown on Russian television in a pool of blood could confirm whether it it is that of Mr. Maskhadov .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has said if the wanted fugitive 's death is confirmed , those who participated in the Special Forces operation in which Mr. Maskhadov was reportedly killed will be decorated with medals .
In a statement broadcast on Russian television , President Putin also said that much more work needs to be done to stabilize Chechnya .
Russian officials have blamed Mr. Maskhadov for numerous terrorist attacks from last year 's Beslan school massacre to the Dubrovka theater hostage crisis .
Russia had offered a $ 10 million reward for information that would lead to Mr. Maskhadov 's capture .
A bomb has ripped through a passenger bus in southwestern Pakistan , killing at least 13 people and wounding 20 others .
The police chief of the Baluchistan province , Chaudhry Mohammed Yaqoob , says the toll could rise because some people were still trapped inside the wreckage .
Officials say the bus was carrying about 50 passengers from the provincial capital , Quetta , to the eastern city of Lahore when the bomb went off Sunday .
No one has claimed responsibility .
But the police chief blamed Baluch tribal militants who have stepped up their insurgency seeking greater autonomy and more compensation for the region 's gas and other natural resources .
The bus bombing came a day after a rocket attack blamed on Baluch tribal militants killed a soldier and wounded at least two people .
Tribal militants also blew up a gas pipeline and fired more than 200 rockets at the main paramilitary base in the region .
The European Space Agency says the Huygens space probe has successfully transmitted scientific data from Saturn 's moon Titan .
Officials say the probe , operated jointly by the American , European and Italian space agencies , is continuing to transmit data after landing on the moon 's surface earlier Friday .
Huygens is studying the composition of Titan 's atmosphere and relaying the information to the probe 's parent craft , Cassini , for transmission to Earth .
European space officials say the probe will continue to transmit data over the next few hours .
It takes about one hour for the signal to travel from the probe back to Earth .
Scientists believe conditions on Titan are similar to those here on Earth before life evolved , which could help them understand the origin of our atmosphere .
Socialist Michelle Bachelet is set to become Chile 's first woman president after winning Sunday 's runoff election .
Her rightist opponent Sebastian Pinera conceded defeat as vote tallies put Bachelet ahead with 53 percent of the ballots .
Pinera was behind with less than 47 percent .
Two-thirds of the vote have been counted .
Bachelet , a former political prisoner and later a defense minister , had been projected to win .
Succeeding current President Ricardo Lagos , she will inherit an economy that has surged in part because of soaring prices for copper , which is Chile 's top export .
Israel has re-opened the border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt , that had been closed for several weeks .
The Rafah crossing , which is the main exit and entrance point for Gaza Palestinians traveling abroad , was closed after a militant attack on a nearby Israeli army post in December , that killed five Israeli soldiers .
Meanwhile , top Israeli and Palestinian security officials met to discuss a plan for Israel to hand over security control of several West Bank towns to the Palestinian Authority .
But there was no immediate announcement of an agreement after the talks ended early Tuesday .
The meeting came hours after Palestinians say Israeli military gunfire killed a schoolgirl in the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian militants retaliated by firing mortars at a nearby Jewish settlement .
But there were no reports of injuries .
A leading Palestinian newspaper says Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia will resign next week .
The al-Hayam newspaper Wednesday said Mr. Qureia will quit after returning from medical treatments in Paris .
There has been no official confirmation of the report .
On Sunday , Palestinian lawmakers voted overwhelmingly to urge Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to fire his cabinet for failing to stop factional fighting in the Gaza Strip .
The lawmakers demanded that Mr. Abbas appoint a new prime minister within two weeks or else face a no-confidence vote .
The action came after a legislative committee presented a special report on the deteriorating Gaza security situation .
Hours earlier Sunday , a Palestinian police commander and two civilian bystanders were killed and at least 50 others wounded in gunbattles between Hamas militants and police .
Syria has agreed to allow United Nations investigators to question at U.N. headquarters in Vienna five Syrian officials about the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Deputy Foreign Minister Walid Moallem told reporters Friday in Damascus that Syria agreed to the compromise after it received guarantees about the rights of the individuals and assurances that its sovereignty would be respected .
He did not say when the interviews will take place .
A U.N. spokeswoman confirmed that a deal has been reached , and she said Secretary-General Kofi Annan expects Syria 's cooperation to continue .
The compromise ends a deadlock with the United Nations , which had originally asked to interview the Syrians in Beirut .
Last month , the U.N. Security Council adopted a resolution demanding that Syria cooperate with the investigation into the February assassination or face possible sanctions .
Syria has denied any involvement in the killing .
Afghan police say a roadside bomb has exploded in the country 's southern province of Helmand , killing four people , including two U.S. nationals .
A provincial police official Sunday said the two Americans , along with their Afghan interpreter and an Afghan police officer , were killed while they were inspecting the bomb in the Naad Ali district .
A Taliban spokesman , Yousuf Ahmadi , told the French News Agency that Taliban militants carried out the attack and killed two American soldiers and several Afghan police .
U.S. officials have not yet confirmed the incident .
Southern Afghanistan is the center of the Taliban-led insurgency , and militants rely heavily on roadside bombs in their campaign against foreign forces .
The United States plans to intensify its fight against the Taliban this year by sending an extra 30,000 troops to Afghanistan .
An official with Cuba 's biotechnology program says his country may develop a bird flu vaccine .
Carlos Borroto , with Cuba 's Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology , made the comment Thursday .
But he said officials do not want to raise expectations because they are still studying the project 's feasibility .
The official also said the two drugs now in use against avian flu are effective , but were not being produced in sufficient quantities .
The remarks come as Cuba prepares to host an international biotechnology conference in Havana .
An estimated 500 scientists from 35 countries are expected at the talks , beginning November 27 in Havana .
Cuba 's biotechnology industry is one of the most advanced in the developing world .
Accidents in three mines in China have killed at least 30 people and left 13 miners trapped .
The official Xinhua news agency says all 28 workers in a mine in northwestern Shaanxi province died when an underground cable caught fire on Saturday night .
The report also said rescuers had retrieved the remains of five of the miners early Sunday .
In a separate incident , Xinhua says an explosion in a coal mining area in Hunan province killed two people on Sunday .
Thirteen workers were reported trapped underground after a coal mine flooded in northwestern Gansu province .
Xinhua says three others were lifted out of the facility in Jib city Sunday .
China has the world 's worst mine safety record , with more than 2,600 coal miners killed last year in accidents and explosions .
Russia says it will withdraw its troops from the two remaining Soviet-era military bases in neighboring Georgia during 2008 .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov announced the agreement Monday after talks in Moscow with his Georgian counterpart , Salome Zurabishvili .
The agreement helps resolve one of the most contentious issues between the two former Soviet states .
Tbilisi had wanted Moscow to close its two remaining bases on Georgian soil by 2006 , a timeline Russia said it could not meet .
Earlier this month , Georgia imposed limited sanctions on the two Russian bases in an attempt to pressure Moscow to agree to a timetable for withdrawal .
A trade delegation led by Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman has signed agreements to sell nearly $ 30 million worth of food to Cuba .
The delegation signed the deal Tuesday in Havana with Cuba 's food importing company , Alimport .
Nebraska farmers agreed to sell wheat , beans and soy products to the Cubans .
The signing took place during Havana 's annual trade fair .
Governor Heineman said it is a big boost for farmers in his state to find a new market .
Cuba has been under a U.S. trade embargo for more than four decades , but a law passed by the U.S. Congress in 2000 allows American food to be sold directly to Cuba on a cash basis .
A four-year-old girl in Egypt has tested positive for bird flu , the 44th confirmed human case of the deadly disease in the Arab world 's most populous country .
Egyptian health ministry officials say the girl is from the southern village of Sheik Massoud in Minya province .
She was admitted to a Cairo hospital for treatment on Monday .
Of the 44 bird flu cases confirmed so far in Egypt , 19 have been fatal .
Most of the fatalities have been women or girls whose families raise poultry , which brings them into daily contact with chickens or turkeys .
Close to five million Egyptian households depend on poultry for food or income .
The government says this makes it unlikely that the disease can be eradicated despite a large-scale poultry vaccination program .
Four Egyptian women died from bird flu last December .
President Bush says he takes " full responsibility " for what went wrong with the federal response to the disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina .
Speaking at the White House Tuesday , Mr. Bush said Katrina exposed serious problems in the response capability at all levels of government to disasters .
President Bush has seen his approval rating drop to its lowest point ever in several public opinion polls , amid widespread criticism of the federal government 's initial response to the storm .
Television images showed hundreds of New Orleans residents waiting for help on docks or rooftops for several days after Katrina hit .
Earlier , the White House said President Bush will address the nation from Louisiana late Thursday .
New Orleans ' Louis Armstrong international airport plans to resume some commercial flights Tuesday .
U.S. Secretary of State-designate Condoleezza Rice is resting , after successful , minimally invasive surgery .
A senior administration official told VOA Dr. Rice underwent a one-and-a-half hour uterine fibroid embolization operation at a Washington hospital Friday .
The operation , an alternative to hysterectomy , shrinks fibroid tumors and allows for a rapid recovery .
Uterine fibroids are among the most common tumors in women , and are not cancerous .
The administration official said Dr. Rice will stay in the hospital overnight , and return to work Monday .
Currently the national security adviser , she was nominated by President Bush on Tuesday to head the State Department .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney has announced plans to visit Saudi Arabia for talks with King Abdullah .
The vice president 's office said Wednesday that Cheney and the King will meet Saturday to discuss issues of mutual interest related to developments in the mideast region .
The issues on the agenda are expected to be the war in Iraq , the Israeli - Palestinian conflict , and the situation in Lebanon .
President Bush has announced he will travel to Jordan next week to discuss improving the Iraq security situation with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
In a joint statement , Mr. Bush and Mr. Malaki affirmed their commitment to building a peaceful , democratic and secure Iraq .
They also pledged to strengthen their bilateral partnership .
Zimbabwe 's state-run media report the government is investigating non-governmental organizations ( NGOs ) it says have failed to account for millions of dollars in donor money .
The Herald newspaper says a special commission has begun probing whether 13 NGOs handled $ 88 million in accordance with the country 's laws .
The United Nations Development Program helped raise the funds following a government appeal .
Zimbabwe 's labor minister Paul Mangwana told the paper that groups found to be in violation will be prosecuted .
The report also says 17 other NGOs in Zimbabwe have successfully met a deadline to account for funding they received .
It says a full report is expected within one month .
Iran 's supreme leader has dismissed President Bush 's charges against Tehran , saying Mr. Bush , like four American presidents before him , will fail in his efforts to uproot Iran 's ruling Islamic establishment .
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told students in Tehran Thursday that Iran 's stance has convinced other Islamic countries that it is possible to , in his words , " confront global arrogance and win . "
In his State of the Union address Wednesday night , President Bush accused Iran of being the world 's primary state sponsor of terror and of pursuing nuclear weapons .
He also said the United States stands with the Iranian people as they seek liberty .
Iran 's foreign ministry spokesman called the charges " baseless " and said they show Mr. Bush is ignoring what he called Iran 's " deep-rooted freedom and democracy . "
Pope John Paul has spent a second night under close medical care , but Vatican officials say his fragile health has stabilized .
Vatican chief spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said Wednesday the pope was running a slight fever and will remain at Rome 's Gemelli hospital for a few more days .
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said he is convinced the pontiff will be released in two or three days .
The 84-year old pope was hospitalized late Tuesday for treatment of an acute inflammation of the respiratory tract brought on by the flu .
He came down with the flu Sunday and had canceled all of his engagements over the past couple of days .
The pope suffers from Parkinson 's disease , which gradually affects control of the muscles , including those of the throat and chest .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say a suspected Islamic militant and three policemen have been killed and at least six people wounded in two separate incidents .
Police say one militant and three policemen were killed during a raid late Tuesday on a house in a village northeast of Jammu city .
They say three houses were damaged in the fighting .
In a separate incident in Srinagar Wednesday , suspected militants lobbed a grenade at police officers , wounding at least two policemen and four civilians .
Militant separatist groups in Indian Kashmir continue attacks against government targets , saying they oppose the ongoing peace process between India and Pakistan .
Kashmiri militants have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
Authorities in Zimbabwe have arrested a sixth man in a widening investigation into an alleged spy ring .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports Tuesday police arrested a senior official at the Ministry of State of National Security after he allegedly found out about the spy ring - but failed to report it .
If convicted , he could face up to 10 years in prison .
Five other officials are facing charges of selling state secrets to foreign agents .
One of those is Philip Chiyangwa , a lawmaker from Mashonaland West and a top official in the ruling ZANU-PF party .
Other suspects include the country 's ambassador-designate to Mozambique , Godfrey Dzvairo , two ruling party officials , Itai Marchi and Kenny Karidza and a bank executive , Tendai Matambanadzo .
The Herald reports three of the suspects are trying to switch their original plea from guilty to not guilty .
Archaeologists working south of Cairo have displayed ancient tombs and artifacts that are dated later than previous discoveries in the region .
Egypt 's chief archaeologist , Zahi Hawass , Tuesday unveiled the tomb of a royal servant who died over 3,000 years ago , during a period known as the " New Kingdom . "
The tomb is in Saqqara , better known for pyramids and tombs that are 1,000 years older .
The walls of the tomb are covered with painted murals .
The excavation director says he expects to find more New Kingdom tombs at the site .
Hawass also revealed 4,000-year-old coffins containing the mummies of a priest and his female companion buried near Egypt 's oldest pyramid at Saqqara .
On Monday , Egyptian archaeologists announced the discovery of a rare double statue of a scribe and his wife dating back more than 4,000 years
Chilean President-elect Michelle Bachelet has unveiled a cabinet containing an equal number of men and women .
Bachelet told reporters Monday the 10 men and 10 women represent a " historic step for equality " in Chile .
The cabinet includes members of parties that are part of the left-of-center coalition , Concertacion , that has governed Chile since the end of the military dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in 1990 .
Among the cabinet members are former economist and finance minister Alejandro Foxley as foreign minister and Harvard professor Andres Velasco as finance minister .
The Reuters news agency quotes Velasco as saying Tuesday he will continue the economic policies of the outgoing government , which produced economic growth of six percent last year .
Bachelet , who was elected president earlier this month , will take office in March , succeeding socialist president Ricardo Lagos .
Iran says it has no intention of abandoning plans to resume sensitive nuclear work , as the European Union warns that such a move could spark an international crisis .
The foreign ministers of Britain , France and Germany Tuesday signed a joint letter warning Iran against resuming activity at its Isfahan nuclear facility .
The letter threatens other unspecified courses of action if Tehran does not adhere to past commitments with the European Union .
The United States says it agrees with European officials that Tehran must maintain its suspension on uranium enrichment activities .
A State Department spokesman Tom Casey says if Iran were to break its commitments with the European Union , U.S. officials would refer the situation to the United Nations Security Council and the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency .
Iranian officials say their plan to resume nuclear work is not reversible .
U.S. President Barack Obama met Thursday with the American hiker recently freed by Iran and the mothers of her two friends still being detained in Tehran .
The White House said Mr. Obama wanted to personally welcome Sarah Shourd back to the Untied States following her more than one year long detention .
Mr. Obama told Shourd , her mother and the mothers of the other two U.S. hikers that the occasion is " bittersweet " because Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal are still being held in Iran .
Iranian border guards seized the three U.S. hikers last year after Iran says they crossed from Iraq into Iranian territory .
Shourd was freed earlier this month on $ 500,000 bail .
She told VOA that she and her two friends were victims of bad circumstances .
Hurricane Ophelia has gathered more strength and battered the coast of North Carolina Wednesday night , pounding the beachfront communities with rains and sustained winds of 140-kilometers per hour .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center has issued a hurricane warning for coastal North Carolina , north to Virginia .
Forecasters have discontinued all warnings for South Carolina .
Fears of floods are intensifying , as the storm 's slow speed indicates that it could rain for days over the region , producing as much as 38 centimeters .
Storm surges are also expected .
Some 50,000 people along North Carolina 's coast have already lost power due to high winds and heavy rain .
The governors of Virginia and North Carolina have declared states of emergency ahead of the storm .
A major figure in U.S. journalism , Tim Russert , chief of the Washington bureau for NBC television , has collapsed and died of a heart attack in his Washington office .
He was 58 years old .
Russert came to broadcast journalism in 1984 after working for Democratic politicians in his native New York state .
He took over as host of NBC 's Sunday morning interview program " Meet the Press " in 1991 and brought the nearly 50-year-old show to the top of the broadcast ratings .
He became known for his tough questioning of politicians while maintaining a cheerful demeanor .
Russert also wrote two best-selling books , including one that chronicled the close relationship with his father .
No breakthroughs were reported during talks in Luxembourg Sunday aimed at ending a stalemate blocking European Union membership negotiations with Turkey .
EU foreign ministers , meeting in emergency session in Luxembourg , are expected to meet again Monday -- the same day the long-awaited negotiations with Turkey were supposed to begin .
Diplomats reported some progress during Sunday 's talks , and are holding out hopes for a breakthrough .
Austria is demanding that negotiations with Turkey include the possibility of offering Ankara less than full EU membership .
Turkey has said it would not accept a so called " privileged partnership . "
Britain says it will relax controls on the export of civilian nuclear technology to India .
The British government says India is a key international partner in fighting terrorism and weapons of mass destruction following India 's agreement to adhere to international guidelines on nuclear nonproliferation .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw also noted the ongoing improvement in India 's relations with Pakistan .
Last month , New Delhi and Washington reached an agreement under which India agreed to separate its civilian and military nuclear programs , continue a moratorium on nuclear testing and open the civilian facilities for U.N. inspections .
Under the accord , the United States promised India full cooperation in helping India fulfill its growing energy needs , including the sale of nuclear power plants .
Gunmen in Iraq disguised as police officers have shot dead five Shi'ite elementary school teachers and their driver south of Baghdad .
Police say the victims were pulled from a mini-bus Monday as they were leaving the school near Iskandariyah .
They were then forced back into a classroom , lined up against the wall and shot to death .
In Baghdad , authorities say at least 10 people were killed and at least 30 others wounded in a suicide car bombing near the oil ministry .
Separately , the U.S. military says three American soldiers were killed today in roadside bomb attacks .
Two of the soldiers died in western Baghdad , the third was killed 80 kilometers southeast of the capital .
Meanwhile , the U.S military has released 500 detainees from Abu Ghraib prison to mark the upcoming Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Officials say another 500 prisoners will be freed over the next week .
The principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia - for centuries under the suzerainty of the Turkish Ottoman Empire - secured their autonomy in 1856 ; they were de~facto linked in 1859 and formally united in 1862 under the new name of Romania .
The country gained recognition of its independence in 1878 .
It joined the Allied Powers in World War I and acquired new territories - most notably Transylvania - following the conflict .
In 1940 , Romania allied with the Axis powers and participated in the 1941 German invasion of the USSR .
Three years later , overrun by the Soviets , Romania signed an armistice .
The post-war Soviet occupation led to the formation of a Communist " people 's republic " in 1947 and the abdication of the king .
The decades-long rule of dictator Nicolae CEAUSESCU , who took power in 1965 , and his Securitate police state became increasingly oppressive and draconian through the 1980s .
CEAUSESCU was overthrown and executed in late 1989 .
Former Communists dominated the government until 1996 when they were swept from power .
Romania joined NATO in 2004 and the EU in 2007 .
Police in India say at least 15 people were killed Sunday when a highway overpass under construction collapsed in southern India .
About 10 people were also reported to be injured .
It is unclear as to whether any others were trapped .
The overpass was located in a busy commercial area in Hyderabad , the capital of Andhra Pradesh state .
Voting has begun in Venezuela 's congressional elections , amid calls for a boycott by opponents of President Hugo Chavez .
Five opposition groups are not taking part in the vote , saying the country 's electoral council is biased in favor of the president .
The boycott makes it likely that pro-Chavez candidates will win two-thirds of the seats in the National Assembly .
Analysts say with such a majority , pro-Chavez lawmakers could rewrite portions of the constitution , such as the clause that sets presidential term limits .
Mr. Chavez has said the boycott is a U.S.-backed " conspiracy " against his government .
The U.S. State Department has repeatedly denied the accusations .
The Venezuelan government has deployed thousands of soldiers around the country to maintain order during the vote .
Small explosions injured three people in the Caracas area on Friday .
A roadside bomb , a Taleban assault on a police station , and an air strike by U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan have killed at least 13 people .
Four Afghan soldiers died in a roadside bomb blast as they took part in a joint operation with U.S. forces against insurgents in Kunar province on Tuesday .
Also Tuesday , two rockets hit central Kabul , injuring three people .
There was no claim of responsibility .
A day earlier , an airstrike by U.S.-led forces in the Lashkar Gah district of Helmand province killed three suspected Taleban .
In another clash , five rebels and one policeman were killed in a gun battle when Taleban insurgents attacked a police checkpoint in Kandahar province .
Officials in Pakistan say a suspected suicide bomb blast near the home of a politician has killed at least four people .
The bombing happened Thursday in the northwestern town of Charsadda , close to a house belonging to Asfandyar Wali - head of the Awami National Party .
Officials say Wali was not hurt in the attack .
In another development , United Nations employees in Pakistan 's capital , Islamabad , will no longer be allowed to live with their children in the country due to heightened security measures .
U.N. officials say the secretary general approved raising security following last month 's deadly truck bombing in Islamabad .
The attack at a Marriott Hotel left more than 50 people dead , and greatly raised fears about the country 's security .
Britain has also issued an order for its diplomats ' children to leave Pakistan .
Polish officials say they will not admit a research team Iran reportedly plans to send to Auschwitz , the notorious World War II Nazi death camp .
Polish Foreign Minister Stefan Mellar said his country should stop Iran from investigating the scale of the Holocaust , which Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has dismissed as a myth .
The manager of the Auschwitz museum said Friday that deniers of the Holocaust profane the memory of its victims and will not be admitted .
Most estimates put the number of deaths at Auschwitz alone at more than one million , mostly Jews .
Earlier this week , Iran 's ambassador to Portugal said he doubts the number of victims of the Holocaust , usually estimated at about six million .
He said that , based on what he has seen at Auschwitz , it would take about 15 years to burn that number of bodies .
Pakistan 's president says peace with India regarding the disputed region of Kashmir is " within reach . "
Addressing European lawmakers in Brussels Tuesday , President Pervez Musharraf said it is important to resolve the issue through peaceful dialogue .
He said , however , Pakistan will not change its stance unless India shows flexibility in regard to the disputed Himalayan area .
Both of the nuclear-armed nations claim Kashmir as their own .
They have fought two wars over the region .
Mr. Musharraf is expected to meet with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the sidelines of this week 's summit of the Non-Aligned Movement in Cuba .
After the summit , the Pakistan president will attend the U.N. General Assembly in New York before traveling to Washington for talks with President Bush .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has criticized U.S. President George Bush for his handling of the U.S. financial crisis .
Mr. Chavez said Friday that the crisis has put the world economy at risk .
The Venezuelan leader spoke to reporters from the presidential palace in Paris following a meeting with French President Nicolas Sarkozy .
Mr. Chavez praised President Sarkozy and said the two discussed technology transfers and energy issues .
Earlier Friday , Mr. Chavez was in Russia where he signed an energy cooperation pact with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev .
Russian energy officials recently said they will expand their investment in Venezuela 's oil industry .
The Venezuelan leader 's trip has also taken him to Cuba and China .
He plans to stop in Portugal before returning home .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital say at least 11 people have been killed and 15 others wounded in fighting between rival militia groups .
The fighting broke out in the Sii-Sii area of Mogadishu Sunday when gunmen linked to an alliance of warlords , the Alliance for Restoration of Peace and Counter Terrorism , opened fire on a vehicle belonging to forces loyal to the country 's Islamic courts .
Clashes between the same groups have killed at least 90 people since March .
Many Somalis suspect the coalition of warlords is supported by the U.S. government as part of its campaign to end terrorism .
The U.S. State Department has said it supports the alliance 's objective of rooting out terrorists , but declined further comment .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 , when clan-based factions ousted President Siad Barre .
A transitional government was formed last year but many factional leaders oppose it .
The United Farm Workers union has reached an agreement with a labor recruiter that would ensure better working conditions for thousands of agricultural guest workers .
California-based Global Horizons is promising to pay two percent more than the federally-mandated minimum wage for guest workers .
The company also will provide medical care and paid bereavement leave if a family member dies , including transportation to and from their native country .
Global Horizons brings in workers from dozens of nations each year under the federal government 's ( H-2A ) agricultural guest worker program .
Officials in the western state of Washington revoked the company 's operating license in December over numerous labor violations involving hundreds of workers from Thailand .
Burma 's military government says it is releasing nearly 4,000 prisoners who had been wrongly jailed .
State radio said 3,937 prisoners would be released starting Thursday , because they were improperly charged by the recently disbanded National Intelligence Bureau .
The bureau was headed by former Prime Minister General Khin Nyunt , who was ousted last month and placed under house arrest .
He was accused of investigating military commanders and threatening the unity of the armed forces .
It is not known if any of Burma 's estimated 1,300 political prisoners will be among those freed .
The announced release comes two weeks before a major summit of the 10-nation Association of South East Asian Nations , where Burma is expected to be questioned about its democratic reforms .
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir says Sudan will not hand over any of its citizens to a foreign court , after the United nations voted to refer Darfur war crimes suspects to the International Criminal Court .
In a speech to the leadership council of the ruling National Congress party , Mr. Bashir said Saturday the Sudanese justice system is competent and honest enough to try any war crimes suspects .
The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution Thursday to refer 51 people accused of crimes against humanity in Sudan 's western Darfur region to the court in the Hague .
Hundreds of Sudanese demonstrated in the capital , Khartoum , today to protest the resolution .
They called for Sudan to cut diplomatic relations with France for having drafted the resolution .
Police in southern Pakistan say a powerful bomb ripped through an Islamic school Monday , killing six students and wounding at least four others .
Authorities said the bomb exploded in a madrassa in southwestern Qilla Saifullah , a town near the Afghan border in the province of Baluchistan .
Investigators said the bomb was concealed in the belongings of an Afghan student who stayed in the school overnight .
Officials said it exploded after the person had left .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast .
Some Pakistani madrassas are seen as breeding grounds for militants fighting foreign forces in Afghanistan and opposed to Pakistani support for U.S. efforts against terrorism .
Police said it was unclear if the explosion was linked to either conflict .
Foxy Brown is a wanted woman ... again .
Police in Fort Lauderdale , Florida have issued an arrest warrant for the 27-year-old rapper , after she failed to appear in court on charges of battery and resisting arrest without violence .
Foxy Brown - real name Inga Marchand - scuffled last month with employees of a Fort Lauderdale beauty supply store .
She also struggled with a responding police officer .
This is n't Foxy Brown 's first run-in with the law : her legal troubles stretch back to a 1997 incident in which she received 80 hours of community service after spitting on two hotel workers in North Carolina .
Last October , she was sentenced to three years ' probation and anger management counseling , following a 2004 attack on two manicurists in New York City .
Authorities in Baghdad say Iraqi security forces have captured the leader of an al-Qaida terrorist cell allegedly responsible for a series of beheadings .
The government identified the cell leader as Mohammed Najam Ibrahim , and said he worked closely with Iraq 's most-wanted fugitive , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
He was arrested in Baquba , 60 kilometers north of the Iraqi capital .
An official statement issued Thursday did not indicate when the arrest took place , but said interrogators are seeking information that might lead them to other members of the al-Zarqawi organization .
Iraqi officials say Mohammed Najam Ibrahim and his brother have carried out a number of beheadings and also have launched attacks against Iraqi security forces .
In Iraq 's western al-Anbar province , U.S. military officials say a weeklong offensive to hunt down insurgents is moving ahead .
They also reported another casualty - a U.S. Marine who was killed Thursday .
Israel 's ruling Likud party has closed a deal with the opposition Labor party to form a unity government .
Under the agreement , Labor leader Shimon Peres will become second-in-command to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
Both Mr. Peres and Likud Minister Ehud Olmert will share the title of vice premier in the new government , which could be announced as early as next week .
Coalition talks began after some Likud members quit the Sharon government to protest Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
In a separate development , witnesses say four Palestinians have been killed in an Israeli air strike Thursday night in the southern Gaza Strip .
This brings to nine the number of Palestinians killed since an Israeli incursion began Wednesday night in the Khan Younis refugee camp .
Afghan officials say five policemen have been killed in two separate attacks .
Authorities say three officers were killed by a roadside bomb in Ghazni province .
Two other policemen were killed during a militant attack in the western province of Ghor .
Three rebels were also killed in that incident .
On Sunday , the British military said three British soldiers were killed in a suicide attack in Afghanistan 's restive Helmand province .
The incident brings to 100 the number of British military personnel killed in Afghanistan since 2001 .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown Monday paid tribute to those troops , saying they have paid the ultimate price to help " turn a lawless region sheltering terrorists into an emerging democracy .
On Sunday , an Afghan reporter working for the British Broadcasting Corporation was found dead in Helmand province , one day after he was abducted .
Detained Burmese pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi has met with a senior official of country 's ruling military government in the main city of Rangoon .
Aung San Suu Kyi was taken from her home Friday for the one hour meeting with Burmese official Aung Kyi at a nearby government facility .
It was the fourth meeting between the two since September , when the military launched a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators , and the first since mid-November .
The United Nations says at least 31 people were killed in the crackdown , which triggered international outrage against the military government .
Aung San Suu Kyi , a Nobel Peace Prize winner , has spent 12 of the last 18 years under some form of detention .
Rescue workers in Indonesia have located a survivor of Monday 's huge earthquake off the coast of Sumatra .
A crew of rescuers from Singapore heard the victim crying out weakly for help Saturday from beneath the rubble of a collapsed building on Nias island , one of areas hardest hit by the 8.7-magnitude quake .
Details of the man 's injuries are unknown .
He was discovered after the search for earthquake survivors had already been halted .
Indonesian authorities said they expected to find no one alive more than four days after the devastating jolt .
Restoring basic services and shelter for thousands of people whose homes were lost in the quake is now the focus of relief efforts .
Water and food are still in short supply in the islands off Sumatra , and bad weather and aftershocks are hampering aid workers .
Venezuela President Hugo Chavez has threatened to detain U.S. officials if they are caught collecting sensitive information about Venezuela 's military .
The statement , issued Friday , came hours after Mr. Chavez 's government accused the U.S. Embassy in Caracas of involvement with a group of Venezuelan military officers accused of spying .
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy told Reuters news agency that officials there have had no official communication with Mr. Chavez 's government and could not comment .
The military officers are accused of gathering information for the U.S. Defense Department .
Venezuela says some of the officers have been detained and others have left the country .
Relations between the two countries have been strained since Mr. Chavez took office in 1999 .
The U.S. recently opposed Venezuela 's acquisition of military transport and maritime surveillance aircraft , saying it threatened regional stability .
A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and proud nomadic traditions , most of Kyrgyzstan was formally annexed to Russia in 1876 .
The Kyrgyz staged a major revolt against the Tsarist Empire in 1916 in which almost one-sixth of the Kyrgyz population was killed .
Kyrgyzstan became a Soviet republic in 1936 and achieved independence in 1991 when the USSR dissolved .
Nationwide demonstrations in the spring of 2005 resulted in the ouster of President Askar AKAEV , who had run the country since 1990 .
Subsequent presidential elections in July 2005 were won overwhelmingly by former prime minister Kurmanbek BAKIEV .
Over the next few years , the new president manipulated the parliament to accrue new powers for himself .
In July 2009 , after months of harassment against his opponents and media critics , BAKIEV won re-election in a presidential campaign that the international community deemed flawed .
In April 2010 , nationwide protests led to the resignation and expulsion of BAKIEV .
He was replaced by President Roza OTUNBAEVA who will serve as president until 31 December 2011 according to a presidential decree issued 19 May 2010 .
Presidential elections are scheduled to be held in October 2011 .
Continuing concerns include : endemic corruption , poor interethnic relations , and terrorism .
This small , poor island economy has become increasingly dependent on cocoa since independence in 1975 .
Cocoa production has substantially declined in recent years because of drought and mismanagement .
Sao Tome and Principe has to import all fuels , most manufactured goods , consumer goods , and a substantial amount of food .
Over the years , it has had difficulty servicing its external debt and has relied heavily on concessional aid and debt rescheduling .
Sao Tome and Principe benefited from $ 200 million in debt relief in December 2000 under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) program , which helped bring down the country 's $ 300 million debt burden .
In August 2005 , the government signed on to a new 3-year IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility ( PRGF ) program worth $ 4.3 million .
Considerable potential exists for development of a tourist industry , and the government has taken steps to expand facilities in recent years .
The government also has attempted to reduce price controls and subsidies .
Potential exists for the development of petroleum resources in Sao Tome and Principe 's territorial waters in the oil-rich Gulf of Guinea , which are being jointly developed in a 60-40 split with Nigeria , but any actual production is at least several years off .
The first production licenses were sold in 2004 , though a dispute over licensing with Nigeria delayed the country 's receipt of more than $ 20 million in signing bonuses for almost a year .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell and the European Union 's Dutch presidency have held talks on the Ukrainian election crisis , the situation in Iraq and other major international issues .
Mr. Powell met Friday with Dutch Foreign Minister Bernard Bot .
The Netherlands also has troops in Iraq as part of the U.S.-led multinational force .
On Thursday , the Dutch government volunteered to send additional personnel to Iraq as part of efforts to boost NATO 's training mission in that country .
The visit is part of Mr. Powell 's final trip to Europe as Secretary of State , before the retired general leaves the Bush Administration .
The United Nations Security Council has adopted a resolution condemning the bombings in London .
The unanimous vote came Thursday during an emergency meeting of the 15-member council , on which Britain holds a permanent seat .
The measure expresses condolences for the British people and the victims of the four bombings in London .
It says any act of terrorism threatens peace and security .
Similar resolutions of condemnation were passed following the Madrid train bombings in 2004 , and the September 11 , 2001 attacks in the United States .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , now in Scotland , joined leaders from the Group of Eight Industrialized nations in strongly condemning the London attacks .
Albania declared its independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1912 , but was conquered by Italy in 1939 .
Communist partisans took over the country in 1944 .
Albania allied itself first with the USSR ( until 1960 ) , and then with China ( to 1978 ) .
In the early 1990s , Albania ended 46 years of xenophobic Communist rule and established a multiparty democracy .
The transition has proven challenging as successive governments have tried to deal with high unemployment , widespread corruption , a dilapidated physical infrastructure , powerful organized crime networks , and combative political opponents .
Albania has made progress in its democratic development since first holding multiparty elections in 1991 , but deficiencies remain .
International observers judged elections to be largely free and fair since the restoration of political stability following the collapse of pyramid schemes in 1997 ; however , there have been claims of electoral fraud in every one of Albania 's post-communist elections .
The 2009 general elections resulted in no single party gaining a majority of the 140 seats in Parliament , and the Movement for Socialist Integration ( LSI ) and the Democratic Party ( DP ) combined to form a coalition government , the first such in Albania 's history .
The Socialist Party ( SP ) has , in effect , boycotted Parliament since it convened in September 2009 and has called for investigations into alleged electoral fraud in the June 2009 elections .
Albania joined NATO in April 2009 and is a potential candidate for EU accession .
Although Albania 's economy continues to grow , the country is still one of the poorest in Europe , hampered by a large informal economy and an inadequate energy and transportation infrastructure .
At least one person has been seriously injured as thousands of Palestinian protesters demonstrated against Egypt 's closing of the Rafah border crossing from Gaza .
Reports from the scene Saturday say a teenage protester was critically wounded when Hamas security forces fired into the air to disperse demonstrators .
The Rafah border crossing was controlled by Fatah-led Palestinian security forces until Hamas forces seized control of the Gaza strip in June .
The crossing had been the only direct link between Gaza and Egypt .
Hamas seized control of Gaza after six days of clashes in which more than 100 people died .
Egypt responded by closing the border .
On Friday , at least eight people in Gaza - including at least one foreign journalist - were injured by what appeared to be stun grenades as Hamas security personnel dispersed a protest by supporters of the rival Fatah faction .
Pope John Paul II has presented the relics of two early Christian saints to the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew of Constantinople , the spiritual leader of the world 's Orthodox Christians .
The presentation of the relics of Saint John Chrysostom and Saint Gregory Nazianzen came during a joint service in Saint Peter 's Basilica .
In remarks read by an aide , the pontiff , who is seeking closer relations between the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches , expressed hope that the occasion will move the churches toward reconciliation .
Patriarch Bartholomew called it proof that there are no insurmountable problems in the Church of Christ .
The two saints honored throughout Christianity as Doctors of the Church served as Bishops of Constantinople during the fourth century , before the split of the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches in 1054 .
Orthodox scholars say Crusaders took the relics to Rome after sacking Constantinople in 1204 .
Two separate bomb attacks in southern Afghanistan Wednesday killed five people and injured several others .
A NATO spokesman says a suicide bomber blew up a vehicle at a police checkpoint in the Zahri district of Kandahar province , killing himself and three policemen .
Three other policemen were wounded in the attack .
Also in Kandahar , a remote-controlled bomb killed two Afghan security guards working for a U.S. company .
Six other guards were wounded .
In another development , U.S. forces say they have captured two suspected al-Qaida militants during a raid in eastern Afghanistan .
A military statement says the two Afghan men were taken into custody this Wednesday morning in Nangarhar province .
The statement says coalition forces acted on intelligence about an al-Qaida member known to pass messages to senior leaders of the group .
It says the two detained men are being questioned about links to the terrorist organization .
The chief of the Russian navy says his country is looking to establish a permanent naval base on the Mediterranean Sea .
Admiral Vladimir Masorin says the Mediterranean has the highest " strategic importance " for his country 's Black Sea fleet .
He says a " permanent presence " of the Russian navy must be restored in the region .
Masorin spoke Friday at the existing base of the Black Sea fleet in the Ukrainian port city of Sevastopol .
Earlier this year , Russian officials denied reports they were looking to build a military base in the Syrian port of Tartus .
Russia uses that port as a naval maintenance site .
The number of Americans getting long-term unemployment aid hit another record high last week .
Thursday 's report from the Labor Department shows more than 5.8 million people collecting jobless compensation for more than one week .
It is the 11th week in a row continuing claims have hit a record high , and it is a sign that the U.S. labor market remains weak .
The number of new claims fell slightly by 20,000 to a total of 654,000 .
A separate report showed the U.S. trade deficit fell to its lowest level in at least nine years in February .
The Commerce Department data show the gap between what Americans sell abroad and what they buy from foreigners narrowed by 28 percent for the month .
The trade deficit shrank to $ 26 billion in February as the faltering economy pushed imports down , while U.S. exports recovered slightly from a two-year low .
Former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad says U.S. suspicions about Iran 's nuclear program stem from what he calls an " element of hatred against Muslims . "
Malaysia 's official news agency , Bernama reports that Mr. Mahathir said the United States is taking a much harder stance with Iran than it is with North Korea .
The former prime minister said Pyongyang will not be the target of a U.S. attack because " if it is non-Muslim , the U.S. will not attack . "
Mr. Mahathir was reported as saying he believes Washington will use Israel as a proxy to attack Tehran .
Shortly before stepping down in late 2003 after 22 years in office , Mr. Mahathir remarked that " Jews rule the world by proxy , " setting off a storm of international criticism .
The World Food Program says it will continue supplying aid to survivors of the Indian Ocean tsunami in Indonesia and Sri Lanka until 2007 .
In a statement Tuesday the WFP said the aid will be focused on the most vulnerable : children , new mothers , the elderly and displaced people .
The WFP director for Asia , Anthony Banbury , said the agency will remain active in the area until people are back on their feet and have regained the livelihoods they lost .
About 1.5 million people will receive assistance .
The WFP statement said aid to the Maldives and Somalia will be phased out by the end of the year .
Assistance to Burma and Thailand ended in mid 2005 .
Thousands of people in Indian Kashmir protested against India 's security forces Thursday , blaming them for killing four youths a day before .
Indian officials say the youths were killed in a crossfire Wednesday as Indian troops battled militants in the Kupwara district of northern Kashmir .
But demonstrators accused Indian soldiers of firing indiscriminately at the boys as they were playing in a park in the village of Doodipora .
India 's chief minister for Jammu Kashmir state , Ghulam Nabi Azad , has ordered an investigation .
In other violence Wednesday , Indian security forces raided rebel hideouts in the Udhampur and Poonch districts of Indian Kashmir .
Indian officials say seven militants were killed , along with two Indian security personnel .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is to hold talks with Kashmiri political leaders on Saturday .
But several prominent Kashmiri separatists say they will not attend .
This is a test .
This is a test of the Answering Machine Broadcast System .
This is only a test .
Switzerland and Russia have skated to the quarterfinals of the men 's Olympic ice hockey tournament at the Turin Games in Italy .
The Swiss played Group A rival Germany to a two-goal draw ( 2-2 ) Sunday .
But with upset wins over Canada and the Czech Republic , Switzerland will advance .
Group A leader Finland has a place , and the Czech Republic and Canada will gain the other two spots with at least ties in games later Sunday .
Slovakia is guaranteed to finish at the top of Group B , beating Kazakhstan , 2-1 , to remain undefeated after four games .
Eight-time Olympic champion Russia hammered Latvia , 9-2 , to reach the quarterfinals .
Sweden also will advance .
The other place will go to the United States if it gets at least one point from its last two games .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says it is concerned about prisoners on a hunger strike at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Spokeswoman Antonella Notari on Friday described the situation at Guantanamo as serious .
She said the International Red Cross spent 10 days visiting with detainees in late September .
The prisoners have been fasting since August to protest their detention without charges or trial .
Human rights groups say more than 200 prisoners have refused food .
U.S. authorities say fewer than 30 detainees are currently not eating .
Twenty-two have been hospitalized and fed involuntarily through tubes .
The U.S. military is holding about 500 prisoners at Guantanamo .
Most were captured in Afghanistan and are suspected of being members of al-Qaida or the former Taliban regime .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has urged all Iraqis to refrain from acts of violence and put aside their differences , in the wake of Monday 's suicide car bombing in Hilla that killed at least 125 people .
A statement issued through his spokesman condemned the attack as a flagrant violation of international law that seeks to undermine the prospects of peace , democracy and prosperity .
The attack , the deadliest of its kind since the fall of Saddam Hussein 's regime in 2003 , wounded more than 100 other people .
Witnesses say the bomber drove a car into a crowd of people seeking medical checkups needed for government jobs .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The White House condemned the attack .
The U.S. national security advisor says Pakistan , Afghanistan and the United States have to cooperate more closely if they are to stem the threat posed by terrorists operating in Pakistan 's border areas .
Stephen Hadley made the comment at a news conference in Kabul , following a meeting with Afghan President Hamid Karzai .
Mr. Hadley said Washington is working very closely with both Pakistan and Afghanistan to counter the threat .
But , he said , this is a very hard problem and there is no quick fix .
The U.S. official stressed the only way to successfully counter the threat is to learn to work effectively together .
He said that although all three nations had made progress , they have a responsibility to do a lot more .
The United Nations says an upsurge in violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region is threatening security and humanitarian aid to hundreds of thousands of people .
U.N. spokeswoman Radhia Achouri says about two-thirds of south Darfur are considered hazardous and no-go areas because of recent attacks on peacekeepers .
In the western Darfur city of Geneina , U.N. staff face increased constraints in delivering aid due to banditry and clashes between rebels and government-backed militias .
In recent days , African Union peacekeepers and civilians have been killed or kidnapped in violence that AU officials have blamed on Darfur 's main rebel group , the Sudan Liberation Movement .
More than two million people have been displaced and tens of thousands of others killed during more than two years of conflict .
U.S. President Barack Obama called the heads of the nation 's largest banks to the White House for talks Friday , in the latest effort to find ways to bolster the battered U.S. economy .
Earlier this week , the Obama administration proposed a plan to help troubled banks by using a government and private partnership to buy up to $ 1 trillion in bad loans and other " toxic assets " from them .
Thursday , Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner urged Congress to approve the administration 's plan to expand the government 's powers to monitor large financial firms .
There may be some faint signs the effort is working .
Economic data published Friday shows consumer spending rose slightly and consumer sentiment improved a small amount in February .
Economists track consumer spending and their views of the economy because consumer demand drives two-thirds of U.S. economic activity .
Hundreds of protesters in Russia 's republic of Ingushetia have demanded the resignation of its president .
A heavy security presence shadowed Monday 's rally in the city of Nazran as protesters called for the resignation of President Murat Zyazikov , a former KGB general who was elected in 2002 with significant Kremlin support .
Police in the predominantly Muslim republic reportedly arrested one of the protest organizers , Boris Arsamokov .
The Associated Press reports that participants also demanded the Kremlin redraw the boundary between Ingushetia and North Ossetia to return territory that belonged to ethnic Ingush .
North Ossetia is a neighboring republic dominated by Orthodox Christians .
Ingushetia also borders Chechnya , where separatists have fought pro-Moscow forces for more than five years .
The government of Afghanistan says reprimands of U.S. soldiers involved in burning the bodies of two dead Taleban insurgents is a very lenient punishment .
The U.S. military said Saturday that the soldiers will face disciplinary action over the incident , but will not be prosecuted .
It said an investigation concluded the troops burned the bodies for hygienic purposes , but that junior officers who ordered the cremation will be reprimanded for showing a lack of cultural and religious understanding .
The Afghan Foreign Ministry said that whatever the purpose and the reason , the burning of human bodies is unacceptable to Islam and local traditions , and by no means should be repeated .
News of the incident surfaced last month when an Australian television channel aired a video purportedly showing the American soldiers burning the bodies of two militants they had killed near Kandahar .
Witnesses say nearly 20 dead whales have washed up Wednesday on a beach in Dakar , Senegal .
Dakar journalist Ricci Shryock tells VOA national police are removing the carcasses in trucks .
She said the whales measure some 3.5 to 4.5 meters .
Local villagers say as many as 100 whales swam up to shore late Tuesday night .
Fisherman were able to tow some of the animals out to sea .
It is unclear why the animals swam close to shore .
Presidents from most South American countries have gathered in Brazil for a meeting of the Mercosur trading group .
The two-day meeting in Rio de Janeiro began Thursday .
One of the main issues under discussion is how to make Mercosur more responsive to the social concerns of the member countries .
The push for a change of direction for the five-member alliance is coming from Venezuela 's leftist President Hugo Chavez .
Ecuador and Bolivia , both also led by leftist governments , are seeking to join the group .
Officials say the trade bloc now accounts for one trillion dollars in annual economic activity and includes 250 million people .
Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay formed Mercosur in 1991 .
Venezuela joined in July of last year .
Chile and Bolivia are associate members .
Russian officials say they will send a naval task force to the Caribbean later this year for possible joint exercises with Venezuelan forces .
A Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman , Andrei Nesterenk , says the nuclear-powered battle cruiser Peter the Great will lead the naval mission , which will also include the destroyer Admiral Chabanenko and other vessels including a fuel tanker .
The spokesman said anti-submarine aircraft will also be sent to Venezuela , possibly in November .
The spokesman said the visit was planned long before the outbreak of the Georgian conflict and is not directed against any third country .
Russian authorities have accused the United States of rearming Georgia while using military vessels to deliver humanitarian aid to the Caucasus country .
U.S. officials have denied the charge Venezuela 's leftist President Hugo Chavez , a harsh critic of the U.S. government , has forged closer ties with Moscow , including arms purchases and other economic deals .
A U.S. newspaper says the Bush administration has been unsuccessfully trying to find someone to oversee the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The Washington Post says the White House wants to appoint a so-called " czar " to coordinate both the civilian and military efforts on the two battle fronts .
The Postsays the person would report directly to President Bush , and would have the authority to issue directions to the State Department , Pentagon and other agencies .
The report says the White House has offered the job to at least three retired top-ranked generals , and all three have declined the post .
Former U.S. Marine General John J. " Jack " Sheehan , one of the generals , says Vice President Dick Cheney and others who still believe the Iraq war can be won , continue to hold more power within the administration than " pragmatists looking for a way out of Iraq . "
The United States is temporarily closing its consulate in the Mexican border city of Nuevo Laredo because of escalating violence .
In a statement from Mexico City Friday , Ambassador Tony Garza said the consulate will close for one week , beginning August 1 .
He says Thursday 's battle on the streets of Nuevo Laredo forced the closure to assess the security situation for employees and travelers .
Rival gangs clashed with machine guns , grenades and a rocket launcher late Thursday .
No one was killed , but the neighborhood has been described as resembling a war zone .
The closure announcement comes days after the ambassador asked the U.S. State Department to extend its travel advisory warning Americans about attacks in Mexico .
More than 100 people have been killed in the town since June , including 18 policemen , as gangs compete for drug-smuggling routes into the United States .
A 15-member U.N. Security Council delegation is in Haiti to assess the work of peacekeepers trying to stabilize the country following last year 's ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Brazilian Ambassador Ronaldo Sardenberg is leading the delegation , which arrived in Port-au-Prince Wednesday for the four-day visit .
The fact-finding trip comes at a time when the Security Council is preparing to vote on extending the mandate of the U.N. peacekeeping force in the country , which expires at the end of May .
U.N. peacekeepers and the interim government have been struggling to contain violence in Haiti since Mr. Aristide was removed from power in February 2004 .
Mr. Sardenberg has described the situation in the country as " dire . "
Pakistan and India have ushered in the new year by exchanging lists of their civilian nuclear facilities .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry Tuesday said the two countries participated in the annual exchange , as part of a 1998 agreement prohibiting attacks on each other 's nuclear installations .
The lists of nuclear facilities were handed over at India and Pakistan 's respective foreign ministries in New Delhi and Islamabad .
India and Pakistan have fought three wars since partition in 1947 .
But relations have improved since the two countries launched a slow moving peace process in 2004 to resolve their disputes , including the conflict over Kashmir .
India and Pakistan both conducted nuclear weapons tests in 1998 .
More than 100 countries with delegates at a global conference on racism have agreed on a declaration calling for an end to intolerance and xenophobia .
The declaration , adopted Tuesday in Geneva , reaffirms a 2001 statement issued at the first United Nations conference on racism in Durban , South Africa .
The decision Tuesday by consensus came a day after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad stirred controversy with an address in which he described Israel as " cruel , repressive and racist . "
Mr. Ahmadinejad 's address sparked a walkout by delegates from 23 European Union nations .
The United States and eight other Western countries boycotted the conference over fears that it would become a forum for anti-Semitism .
U.N. and Western diplomats criticized the Iranian president 's remarks as outrageous , anti-Semitic and an incitement to hatred .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the Iranian leader used the meeting " to accuse , divide and even incite . "
The Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad says it has ordered its gunmen in the Gaza Strip to stop firing rockets at Israeli targets while Israel prepares for and completes its Gaza evacuation .
The group issued a statement Wednesday , a day after errant rocket fire into southern Israel killed a Palestinian child and wounded eight other Palestinians .
The Jihad statement denied responsibility .
Meanwhile , thousands of Jewish settlers and their right-wing supporters are protesting for a second straight day in southern Israel against the mid-August Gaza evacuation .
The protesters , encamped near the Israeli border town of Ofakim , have vowed to march to nearby Gaza later Wednesday , despite Israeli warnings that 15,000 police deployed in the area will stop them .
Israel closed Gaza to all Israeli non-residents last month , and police and troops have blocked earlier attempts by protesters to enter the territory .
NATO has acknowledged responsibility for killing 12 Afghan civilians during a major U.S.-led offensive against the Taliban in southern Afghanistan .
NATO says the civilians were killed when two rockets fired at insurgents missed their intended target .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai expressed sadness at the incident .
He has ordered an investigation into the deaths in the Nad Ali district .
The large-scale military operation began early Saturday , concentrated on the farming community of Marjah in southern Helmand province .
Some 15,000 U.S. , British and Afghan soldiers are involved in the offensive , designed to oust the Taliban from an area that has been an insurgent stronghold .
Afghan officials said Sunday that at least 27 insurgents have been killed during the fighting .
NATO says one American and one British soldier were killed on the first day of the offensive .
During an interview Sunday on CNN , U.S. National Security Advisor James Jones described the operation as going well .
The landmark trial of a Congolese war crimes suspect has been temporarily adjourned after the first witness suddenly recanted his earlier testimony .
The young man was testifying Wednesday against Thomas Lubanga , the first suspect to go on trial at the International Criminal Court in The Hague .
The witness , whose name was not released , initially said Lubanga 's men recruited him off a street and sent him to a military training camp .
But after a break , the witness told the court his earlier account was incorrect .
Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda requested a delay to investigate what caused the man to change his testimony , and to review measures designed to protect his safety .
Lubanga , a former Congolese militia leader , is accused of recruiting and using children under the age of 15 as soldiers during hostilities in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
American billionaire Bill Gates is donating another $ 258 million to the fight against malaria , which kills more than one million people each year , mostly African children .
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced Sunday it is granting the money to groups working on new drugs , a vaccine and better mosquito control to stop malaria .
A new report by a the Malaria Research and Development Alliance says the $ 258 million donation equals more than three-quarters of the entire global spending on research into the disease last year .
Mr. Gates told reporters Sunday it is " a tragedy that the world has done so little " to stop the disease that kills 2,000 African children every day .
Mr. Gates , who founded computer software giant Microsoft , is the world 's wealthiest person .
Afghan police and U.S. troops in the eastern city of Jalalabad have opened fire to break up rioting by students angry at alleged desecration of the Koran at the U.S. jail in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Local health officials say at least three people were killed and some 60 others wounded -- some seriously .
Demonstrators chanting " Death to America " marched through streets Wednesday , smashing cars , damaging shops and throwing stones at U.S. troops .
Protests erupted after Newsweek magazine reported that interrogators at Guantanamo placed copies of the Muslim holy book on toilets to rattle terrorist suspects .
The United States has condemned the alleged desecration of the Koran , saying such activity would be reprehensible and contrary to U.S. policy .
The U.S. military says any kind of violation of the religious rights of detainees will be treated very seriously .
A court in Venezuela has ordered four people detained for their alleged involvement in the assassination of a leading government prosecutor .
Those ordered held by the court Friday include newspaper editor Patricia Poleo and businessman Nelson Mezerhane .
They are accused of plotting the assassination of Danilo Anderson , who was leading the prosecution of hundreds of people accused of backing a 2002 coup against President Hugo Chavez .
Mr. Anderson was killed by a car bomb last November .
Ms. Poleo and Mr. Mezerhane are accused of plotting the assassination with two others who have been detained - retired general Eugenio Anez Nunez and Salvador Romani , a Cuban dissident .
Since Mr. Anderson 's killing last year , Venezuelan police have arrested at least two other suspects , while two others were killed in a gunfight with police .
Burmese activists have gathered outside the Russian Embassy in Malaysia to call on Moscow to end its support for building a nuclear research center in Burma .
Some 50 protesters took part in the demonstration Tuesday .
In May , Russia announced that it had agreed to help build a nuclear research center in Burma .
The United States has expressed concern about the deal , saying Burma does not have the regulatory or safety provisions to successfully handle that type of nuclear program .
Russia and China have become major suppliers of arms to Burma since the West imposed sanctions in 1988 over Burma 's poor human rights record .
The U.S. military has released more than 400 male Iraqi prisoners , after an Iraqi-led review board found no reason to continue to keep them in custody .
The releases were announced Saturday .
A U.S. statement said that since August 2004 the cases of about 28,000 detainees have been examined and about half of them have been released .
Meanwhile , authorities say a U.S. soldier was killed Saturday by a roadside bomb in Baghdad .
Separately , at least three Iraq police were killed in another roadside explosion in the city .
Also , police say the bodies of two blindfolded and bound men were found in Baghdad - apparent victims of reprisal attacks by Shi'ite and Sunni extremists .
The Iraqi Interior Ministry is probing allegations that Shi'ite death squads are operating within Iraqi police ranks .
Polish prime minister-designate Donald Tusk says he wants to pull Polish troops out of Iraq next year .
In an interview Wednesday with a daily newspaper , Polska , Tusk is quoted as saying his new government would want to finish the mission of the 900 troops still in Iraq .
Tusk also said he wants to continue good relations with Washington , but needs more information before deciding whether to back U.S. plans to build part of a European missile defense system in Poland .
He says he wants to know if housing 10 U.S. interceptor missiles in Poland increases or diminishes security .
In Washington , a White House spokeswoman , Dana Perino , expressed appreciation for the cooperation of countries working with the U.S. led coalition in Iraq .
She said the United States understands the difficulties in continuing the troop presence , but stressed their importance in guaranteeing security .
Macedonia 's delegation says it is leaving the NATO summit in Bucharest early to protest the alliance 's failure to invite it to begin membership talks because of a dispute over the country 's name .
Foreign Minister Antonio Milososki told reporters in the Romanian capital that the Macedonian delegation will leave shortly after a meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush .
The Macedonian News Agency ( MIA ) reports that President Branko Crvenkovski and Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski have canceled all other meetings scheduled for later Thursday and Friday .
NATO leaders said Macedonia fulfilled requirements for a membership , but held off extending the invitation after Greece threatened a veto .
Greece demands that Macedonia change its name , which is the same as the name of a northern Greek province .
Greece contends that the former Yugoslav republic 's refusal to change its name implies territorial claims , a charge Macedonia denies .
Pakistani officials say Sunni and Shi'ite militants are battling each other for a third day in the country 's North-West Frontier Province .
A Pakistani administrator in the tribal region , Sahibzada Mohammed Anis , says the confirmed death toll from the fighting is 15 , with scores of people wounded .
On Saturday , another official said 40 people had been killed .
The administrator says tribal elders are trying to negotiate an end to the violence .
Heavy fighting between majority Sunnis and minority Shi'ites erupted Friday in and around the town of Parachinar in the semi-autonomous Kurram region .
Pakistani officials say the fighting in Parachinar subsided Saturday after the military imposed a curfew and government helicopters patrolled the area .
But , they say battles continued Sunday in nearby villages .
The cause of the sectarian violence has not been independently confirmed , but residents say it began after one group held a demonstration denouncing the other sect .
The state-run Russian company building Iran 's nuclear power station says the launch date has been postponed because of Iran 's payment delays .
Officials at Atomstroyexport say it is impossible to launch the reactor in September .
They added there will be no delivery of nuclear fuel this month as earlier agreed .
Russia has accused Iran of missing payments on the nuclear plant .
Iran has denied the claim .
Iranian and Russian officials met in Moscow last week , but failed to solve their financial dispute .
Russia 's Interfax news agency quotes a Russian foreign ministry spokesman , Andre Krivtsov , as saying Moscow hopes the two countries will find a mutual solution to their funding problem .
The United Nations Security Council has expressed concern that Iran could use uranium enrichment technology to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is only for energy purposes .
U.S. military officials say the death toll from Wednesday 's helicopter crash in southeastern Afghanistan has risen to 16 , including at least four American crew members .
A U.S. statement says two other people listed on the flight manifest are missing .
The Chinook helicopter was returning to Bagram air base from Ghazni province , southwest of the capital , Kabul , when it went down near Ghazni city .
The U.S. military suggests severe weather was to blame for what is the deadliest military crash in Afghanistan since the start of U.S.-led operations to oust the Taleban in late 2001 .
Saudi state media say authorities have destroyed nearly 160,000 birds following the discovery of bird flu south of the capital , Riyadh .
The Saudi Press Agency reports Tuesday that the birds tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu , which can be deadly to humans .
The outbreak was discovered on a farm in the al-Kharj region , about 80 kilometers south of the capital .
Authorities destroyed thousands of birds in the region last November to contain another outbreak of the virus .
Various forms of bird flu are common in birds and rarely affect humans .
The World Health Organization says the H5N1 strain of the virus has killed at least 223 people worldwide since 2003 .
Saudi Arabia has not reported any human cases of the disease .
Victims generally contract the disease from sick or dead birds , but health authorities are concerned the virus could change into a form easily passed between humans .
A U.S. government oversight agency says Afghanistan 's reconstruction program has no coherent spending strategy to implement its goals .
A report by the U.S. Congress 's Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction released late Thursday says the U.S. has appropriated , but not fully spent , $ 32 billion for humanitarian aid in the country , while other nations have donated $ 25 billion .
The report found that reconstruction efforts have been fragmented and lack a central plan to complete U.S. goals .
Those goals include rebuilding Afghan infrastructure , re-establishing political institutions , providing services to the Afghan people , and maintaining security necessary for reconstruction projects .
The report also says government officials in Afghanistan want a greater say in building plans .
Congress created the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction under the authority of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 .
The measure was signed into law one year ago .
Police in northwest Pakistan say suspected Taliban militants have blown up a primary school that educated girls .
Officials say there were no casualties in Tuesday 's blast because the school was closed for the Eid al-Fitr holiday marking the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Al-Qaida and Taliban-linked militants who oppose the education of women have destroyed hundreds of girls schools across the country .
On Monday , police killed a suicide bomber trying to assassinate a regional education minister , also in the northwest .
In other violence , Pakistani security forces say they have arrested 11 suspected militants , including three Afghanis , during security operations in Malakand and Swat districts .
In a statement released Tuesday , officials say they also found four inter-linked tunnels and bomb-proof bunkers during a separate search operation near Swat 's Biakand area .
The U.S. military in Iraq says a roadside bomb has killed one of its troops south of the capital , Baghdad .
The military says the soldier was killed Thursday when his vehicle hit the bomb during a combat patrol near Iskandariyah .
The United States invaded Iraq in 2003 , citing concerns about alleged weapons of mass destruction programs .
No such weapons were found .
Palestinian political rivals Hamas and Fatah have called-off scheduled talks on forming a unity government .
In an apparent sign that deep differences remain , aides to President Mahmoud Abbas said he canceled Tuesday 's meeting with Hamas leaders in Gaza .
No new meeting date was announced .
Earlier , Hamas said it is serious about reaching a deal on a unity government .
Mr. Abbas has said any unity government including Hamas would have to accept interim peace deals with Israel .
Hamas leaders say they want to share power with Fatah , but they will not accept language that explicitly recognizes Israel .
The militant group 's charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish state .
Hamas has said that it would instead support a long term truce with Israel .
The Palestinian president has accused Hamas of violating an agreement reached earlier this month on the political platform for a unity government .
Hamas denies the charge .
Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani has arrived in the country 's southern port city of Karachi to try to quell unrest that has killed at least 85 people .
Monday 's assassination of provincial lawmaker Raza Haider triggered four days of riots , with protesters opening fire and burning vehicles and shops .
Haider was a member of the Muttahida Quami Movement or MQM , which is part of the ruling political coalition in both Sindh province and the federal government .
The party , which largely represents the Urdu-speaking community , and the Awami National Party or ANP , which represents ethnic Pashtuns , have blamed each other for the violence .
Pakistan 's Interior Minister Rehman Malik has said Taliban-linked militants looking to fuel political tensions were behind Haider 's assassination .
Malik met with representatives from both the MQM and ANP on Friday .
Political leaders were due to meet with Prime Minister Gilani later in the day .
French President Jacques Chirac is preparing for a high-profile television appearance to try to boost uncertain prospects for French ratification of the European Union constitution .
Mr. Chirac will open his public campaign for the constitution this Thursday evening in a televised debate with an audience of 80 young voters .
His appearance follows a string of opinion polls that have shown French voters planning to reject the constitution in a referendum on May 29 .
Pollsters say opponents plan to vote against the constitution to highlight their fear of Turkish EU membership or to register their discontent with Mr. Chirac 's socio-economic policies .
Some critics say the constitution could cost French jobs and destroy the country 's social welfare system .
The constitution , aimed at streamlining EU decision-making , requires ratification by all of the union 's 25 member states to take effect .
Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said Saturday the United States and Israel are his country 's main enemies .
In a televised speech , Khamenei said hatred toward the U.S. is growing around the world .
His remarks come just three days after the United States rejected an Iranian suggestion to hold higher-level talks on the security situation in Iraq .
Iran suggested the talks as U.S. and Iranian ambassadors to Iraq met in Baghdad to discuss Iraq 's security .
The U.S. has accused Iran of supplying weapons and training to Shi'ite militias in Iraq .
Iran denies the charge .
Khamenei 's comments came as he marked the birthday of Imam Ali , the first Imam of Shia Muslims .
The United States and Iran have had little official contact for 27 years .
Washington broke off diplomatic relations in April 1980 several months after Iranian activists seized the U.S. embassy in Tehran and took its staff hostage .
An international human rights group is urging NATO to stop transferring detainees to Afghan security forces because of reports they torture their prisoners .
Amnesty International says the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force could be exposing prisoners to mistreatment and abuse by placing them in the custody of the Afghan National Directorate of Security .
The rights group wants ISAF to temporarily suspend all prisoner handovers to Afghan authorities until proper safeguards are in place .
The group says , in particular , ISAF troops from Belgium , Britain , Canada , Norway and the Netherlands could be in violation of an agreement they signed with the Afghan government on prison transfer and monitoring .
Amnesty says the agreement does not provide enough safeguards .
Amnesty International called on those countries not to rely on bilateral agreements to protect prisoners from harsh treatment once they are transferred .
The rights group is calling for a complete reform of the Afghan detention system .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov has accused some NATO countries of illegally supplying Soviet-made arms to Georgia .
The Russian official Friday did not name the countries allegedly involved , but he said they were from among the seven formerly communist-ruled East European countries that joined the alliance in 2004 .
Ivanov made his comments following a meeting with defense ministers of the 26 NATO countries in the Slovenian seaside resort of Portoroz .
Georgian officials filed espionage charges against Russian military officers this week .
Ivanov alleged the move was part of efforts to force Moscow to withdraw its troops from Georgia and clear the way for Georgian authorities to pursue a military solution in secessionist areas of the country .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer called on both sides to de-escalate tensions .
Earlier this month , NATO angered Russia by approving intensified dialogue with Georgia .
Sri Lanka 's military says rebels have ambushed a navy bus in the east of the country , wounding 12 sailors and sparking a gunbattle in which two civilians also died .
Officials blame Tamil rebels for Tuesday 's attack in Trincomalee .
They say the rebels set off a fragmentation mine as the navy bus passed by , and then opened fire on the bus with small arms .
Officials say the sailors shot back , and two civilians were killed in the crossfire .
Sri Lanka 's government says at least 69 security personnel have been killed by rebels since early December .
The violence has severely strained a ceasefire signed by both sides in 2002 .
The U.S. space agency NASA is counting down toward a nighttime launch of the space shuttle Endeavouron a 16-day mission to the International Space Station .
The shuttle is scheduled to launch early Tuesday morning with seven astronauts and some high-tech freight on board .
Endeavour will deliver the first module of a Japanese space laboratory and a Canadian robot designed to handle some of the jobs performed by spacewalking astronauts .
The Japanese lab is called Kibo , a Japanese word for hope .
If shuttle flights go according to schedule , its final module should be delivered next year to the space station .
The Canadian robot , called Dextre , can be operated by the crew inside the station or by flight controllers on the ground .
Astronauts intend to perform five spacewalks during their stay at the space station .
The 16-day mission will be the longest shuttle mission to the space station to date .
The White House says it can not intervene in the New York City public transit strike , but it has encouraged the parties involved to resolve their differences .
A White House spokesman , Scott McClellan , told reporters Wednesday that federal mediators have offered to help resolve the conflict over city transit workers ' pay and pension issues .
Meanwhile , New Yorkers commuted to work for the second day on foot , on bicycle , or crowded four-at-a-time into taxi cabs .
The city 's subway and buses shut down early Tuesday after talks deadlocked between the city and the Transport Workers Union .
Later that day , a judge imposed a fine against the union of $ 1 million for each day of the strike .
Merchants are concerned about plummeting sales just before the Christmas and New Year holidays - normally the busiest shopping days of the year .
BBC journalist Alan Johnston , released Wednesday by Palestinian kidnappers in the Gaza Strip , has received an award for human rights reporting from Amnesty International .
Amnesty International 's director for Britain , Kate Allen , said the judges of the annual media awards were determined not to let Johnston 's kidnapping affect their judgment .
She said they were impressed by his insight and commitment to telling stories of everyday life in Gaza .
The award was one of nine that Amnesty gave out during a ceremony in London Wednesday just hours after Johnston 's release .
His father accepted the award for him , saying , " It 's been quite a day . "
Johnston was the only Western reporter based in Gaza when he was abducted in March .
After his release , he compared his four months in captivity to being buried alive . "
Pakistan has released 17 former Guantanamo Bay detainees who had been freed from U.S. custody nine months ago and detained for further investigation on their return to Pakistan .
The released men are part of a group of 35 Pakistani detainees who were cleared by U.S. authorities last September .
A religious affairs adviser for the government in Punjab province says the men were finally released today after they promised not to take part in militant activities .
Hundreds of Pakistanis went to Afghanistan to fight alongside the Taleban militia against the United States .
After the Taleban regime was ousted in late 2001 , many Pakistanis were jailed in Afghanistan , and some were sent to Guantanamo .
A meeting between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell has been postponed so the two sides have more time to prepare .
The Israeli prime minister was due to meet with Mitchell in Paris , France , Thursday , but an Israeli official said his side is seeking to conduct " more professional work " on the issues before the meeting .
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barack is expected to meet Mitchell instead in Washington next week .
Officials close to Mr. Netanyahu denied Israeli media reports that the meeting was called off because of a disagreement over Israeli settlement activity .
The United States has said Israel must halt settlement expansion in the occupied West Bank as part of a comprehensive peace plan .
Israel has resisted the notion , saying some degree of expansion must continue to support the natural growth of settler communities .
Police in central Pakistan 's Punjab province say three suspected militants were killed Saturday when a bomb they were carrying on a bicycle accidentally exploded .
The explosion happened in Cheecha Watni , a town about 100 kilometers from the city of Multan .
It is not immediately clear what sort of attack the men were planning .
Police say at least two of the suspected militants were students at a local seminary , and had links to Sipah-e-Sahaba , an outlawed Sunni Muslim group .
Police have been on high alert in Pakistan after a series of suicide bomb attacks in recent weeks .
Last week , a suicide bombing killed at least 15 people in a courtroom in Baluchistan province .
At least 36 suspects have been detained in connection with that attack .
Baluchistan borders Afghanistan and Iran .
It is widely believed to be used by Taleban leaders for planning attacks against Afghan and U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan .
Vietnamese health officials say a woman in the north of the country has died from bird flu as a new outbreak is reported in southern China .
The director of Vietnam 's preventive medicine department , Nguyen Huy Nga , said the 23-year-old teacher died Monday after testing positive for H5N1 strain of avian influenza .
Her death brings the number of people in Vietnam killed by the virus to 50 , out of 105 total human infections .
In separate news , Chinese health officials Monday reported a new outbreak in the southern province of Guizhou .
Authorities said nearly 4,000 poultry have died from the disease and a further 238,000 have been culled .
China earlier announced the death in Guangdong province of a 44-year-old woman - the country 's 19th fatality and the third this year .
International human rights groups say gunmen in the Democratic Republic of Congo have killed a prominent rights activist in the east of the country .
In a joint statement Monday , Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch , and Front Line called on Congo 's government to investigate the slaying of Pascal Kabungulu Kibembi .
He was executive director of the human rights group Heirs of Justice , based in Congo 's South Kivu region .
The organizations say that on Sunday , three armed men in uniform broke into Mr. Kabungulu 's home in Bukavu , and shot him in front of his family .
The groups are urging the Congolese government to find and prosecute those responsible and to develop an effective plan to protect human rights workers .
They say some rights activists have fled the country because of increased threats .
Pakistan has sentenced five people to death for plotting to kill President Pervez Musharraf two years ago .
Army spokesman Major General Shaukat Sultan said Friday that the sentences were given to one soldier and four civilians involved in the plot to ram an explosives-laden vehicle into Mr. Musharraf 's motorcade .
The president was unhurt in the attack in Rawalpindi , but 15 others died .
Earlier this month , authorities hanged a soldier linked to that attack and an earlier plot against the president .
Mr. Musharraf has become a target for Islamic militants since joining the U.S.-led war on terrorism after the September 11 , 2001 attacks in the United States .
Danish police are holding seven people suspected of planning terrorist attacks in the Scandinavian country .
Authorities say security police launched a raid early Tuesday and detained nine suspects in Vollsmose , a mostly immigrant neighborhood in the city of Odense .
Police released two of the suspects .
Justice Minister Lene Espersen said police seized materials used to make explosives , and she said most of the suspects are thought to be Danish citizens of foreign origin .
Espersen declined to disclose further details but she said evidence showed the group had been plotting to stage an attack somewhere in Denmark .
Last month , authorities charged four suspects with trying to obtain explosives to carry out a terrorist attack .
Also in early August , a Moroccan-born Dane was charged with inciting Muslims to carry out terrorist acts .
Iranian state television says a bus carrying pilgrims on their way to holy sites in Iraq has crashed into a warehouse in western Iran , killing at least 28 people .
Monday 's reports say nine others were injured when the bus crashed near Ilam , some 710 kilometers southwest of Tehran .
Officials blamed high speed and mechanical problems for the accident .
Iran has one of the worst road safety records in the world .
Official statistics show that more than 26,000 people die in road accidents in Iran each year due to unsafe vehicles , disregard for traffic rules and inadequate emergency services .
World oil prices soared to yet another record high in Thursday 's trading , increasing the threat of inflation and dimming prospects for global economic growth .
The price of crude oil for future delivery went as high as $ 145.85 a barrel in New York trading .
Analysts blamed the price hikes on a weak U.S. dollar , concerns about conflict in the Middle East , and lower crude oil inventories .
Raising the price of oil boosts the cost of making many goods and increases the cost of delivering everything , so soaring energy costs are increasing the threat of inflation .
Thursday , the European Central Bank tried to fight inflation by raising interest rates a quarter of a point to 4.25 percent .
Increasing interest rates slows the economy by raising the cost of borrowing money to buy equipment to expand businesses or purchase homes .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says the recent outbreak of bird flu in Turkey is under control , as health officials confirmed the country 's 15th human case of the H5N1 virus .
Mr. Erdogan said agricultural officials continue to closely monitor the situation .
Agricultural workers say they have slaughtered some 300,000 birds and have stepped up an information campaign to inform people about the dangers posed by infected birds .
Some 70 people in Turkey are hospitalized with symptoms of avian influenza , but the Associated Press quotes health officials as saying most of them have tested negative for bird flu .
In Ukraine , health officials Tuesday confirmed new cases of H5N1 in birds at three poultry farms on the Crimean peninsula .
Bird flu has killed more than 70 people in Asia since 2003 , and at least two people in Turkey .
At least 15 more Iraqi police and national guardsmen have been killed , as insurgents press their campaign to disrupt upcoming national elections .
A suicide car-bomb explosion in Baghdad near the headquarters of Prime Minister Iyad Allawi 's political party killed two police and a civilian and wounded more than 20 people .
North of the capital , U.S. authorities say a car bombing near a U.S. military base in Balad killed four Iraqi guardsmen and wounded 14 .
In Tikrit , six guardsmen were reported killed by roadside bombs , and two more Iraqi officers were killed at a checkpoint in the nearby town of Baiji .
Separately , officials say a policeman was killed in Mosul when he tried to move a decapitated body that was rigged with explosives .
Security officials say they expected an increase in insurgent attacks before January 30 elections .
Russia 's upper house of parliament has approved President Vladimir Putin 's controversial plan to end direct elections to choose regional governors , and allow the Kremlin to appoint them instead .
The Federation Council adopted the measure Wednesday by 145 votes to one , with two abstentions .
It now goes to the Kremlin to become law with Mr. Putin 's signature .
The president says such changes are necessary to block terrorists from trying to influence Russia 's local elections .
But critics across the political spectrum say the plan is a step back from democracy .
Under the new law , the Kremlin would select gubernatorial candidates , whose appointments would require confirmation by regional lawmakers .
If a provincial parliament rejects a governor chosen by Moscow , the new law says Mr. Putin has the authority to dissolve that legislature .
NATO says two alliance soldiers have been killed and three others wounded in a firefight with Taliban insurgents in eastern Afghanistan .
In a statement , the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force says the fighting erupted when insurgents ambushed a joint NATO-Afghan troop patrol in the Korangal Valley of Kunar province late Thursday .
NATO did not identify the nationalities of the dead and wounded soldiers .
NATO and U.S. forces are battling a resurgent Taliban presence in Afghanistan .
The group increasingly has used suicide attacks and roadside bomb blasts since U.S.-led forces ousted it from power in the late 2001 .
Several bomb explosions in Afghanistan , blamed on Taleban insurgents , have killed four American troops and two Afghan policemen , and wounded two U.S. Embassy officials .
A roadside bomb in southern Zabul province killed the four soldiers and wounded three others early Sunday .
A U.S. commander , Major-General Jason Kamiya , said the blast would not weaken the resolve of coalition forces .
In another part of the province , two Afghan policemen were killed in a similar blast .
Meanwhile , in the western outskirts of Kabul , a roadside bomb exploded near a convoy of U.S. Embassy vehicles , slightly wounding two officials .
In the southern province of Kandahar , gunmen on motorcycles killed a pro-government cleric , while in the eastern province of Kunar , rebels ambushed two tankers supplying fuel to U.S. military base .
Israel says it has launched fresh airstrikes against Palestinian militant targets in the Gaza Strip .
Army officials say Israeli aircraft attacked at least eight roads and bridges Sunday leading to sites used by militants to launch rockets into Israeli territory .
It was not immediately clear if there were any casualties .
On Saturday , Palestinian officials said a Palestinian militant was killed and three others wounded in an explosion in the Gaza Strip .
Security officials said Israeli aircraft fired a missile at a car carrying the militant ( said to be a member of the Abu Rish Brigades ) .
Israel denied the report .
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan says he believes another investigation will be necessary into last month 's assassination of former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri .
In a speech Wednesday to Arab leaders meeting in Algiers , Mr. Annan said that within the next few days he expects to release a report on a fact-finding mission into the February 14th killing .
But he added that another more comprehensive probe might be necessary .
News reports from Lebanon say the U.N. fact-finding report is expected to accuse Lebanese authorities of negligence and evidence tampering .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian government has said it was investigating the massive bombing in Beirut that killed Mr. Hariri .
But there has been no official statement on the probe .
Meanwhile , Mr. Annan said he expected the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon to be completed before Lebanese parliamentary elections set for May .
Zimbabwe is preparing to nullify thousands of legal challenges by white farmers who had their land seized under the country 's controversial land reform program .
A report in Zimbabwe 's Sunday Mail newspaper says authorities will file court papers Monday to officially end the litigation under a new constitutional amendment that nationalizes all seized farms and bans any legal challenges .
An official in the attorney general 's office says 4,000 cases pending before the courts will be nullified .
President Robert Mugabe began the land seizures in 2000 and transferred ownership to landless blacks .
Mr. Mugabe says the land seizures were necessary to correct ownership imbalances created under British colonial rule .
But critics say the program has been a failure and has led to the collapse of Zimbabwe 's economy .
Thousands of people demonstrated in northern Japan Saturday in advance of next week 's summit of leaders of the world 's eight richest nations .
The protesters gathered in the city of Sapporo to demand the Group of Eight leaders take action on a number of issues , including soaring food prices .
They also denounced the G8 itself for such ills as war , discrimination , poverty and global climate change .
Foreign activists , farmers and non-governmental organizations made up the ranks of the protesters .
Thousands of riot police were deployed along the march route .
Officials say at least four people were arrested .
Sapporo is the capital of Hokkaido Island .
The G8 leaders will convene at a nearby luxury resort on Monday for a three-day summit .
The G8 includes the United States , Japan , Russia , France , Britain , Canada , Italy and Germany .
World oil prices rose in early trading Tuesday , ending a three-day slide .
The price of crude oil for future delivery gained 2.5 percent during trading in New York to more than $ 72 a barrel .
Oil industry analysts say the increase is due to renewed interest in oil , and other commodities , from investors who are worried about the declining value of the U.S. dollar .
The U.S. dollar lost value compared to other currencies Tuesday after Russian President Dmitri Medvedev suggested the world should lessen its dependence on the dollar , which many countries use to pay off their debts .
Oil prices have more than doubled since the beginning of this year as investors have grown increasing optimistic that the world will eventually pull out of recession , causing demand for oil to increase .
Still , oil is trading far below the all-time high of $ 147 a barrel set last July .
U.S. Congressional officials say the White House intends to seek $ 40 billion in emergency funds to finance the next phase of recovery from Hurricane Katrina .
President Bush has already signed a $ 10.5 billion emergency package for hurricane victims .
But one U.S. lawmaker , Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid , says the hurricane could cost the federal government $ 150 billion .
Earlier , Mr. Bush said he plans to oversee an investigation into what went wrong with the government 's response to Hurricane Katrina .
His administration has come under heavy criticism over the government 's relief efforts following the powerful storm .
Federal Emergency Management Agency Chief Michael Brown has also been the focus of widespread criticism .
Some U.S. lawmakers have called for his removal , but the White House has rejected calls for top federal emergency officials to be replaced .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko is warning parliament not to hold a planned opening of its fall session Tuesday , saying any decisions it makes will be illegitimate .
Mr. Yushchenko said in a nationwide television address Monday that under the constitution , the parliament would have no authority .
He called the opposition members provocateurs and said their plan to hold an opening session is an attempt to derail parliamentary elections later this month .
Mr. Yushchenko dissolved parliament in March , accusing his chief political opponent , Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , of illegally enticing Yushchenko supporters to join the opposition .
The lawmakers refused to dissolve and many still say their parliament still exists .
The president and prime minister agreed to hold early general elections on September 30 .
Officials in Pakistan say suspected tribal rebels blew up three natural gas pipelines Saturday in southwestern Baluchistan province .
Gas company officials say the attacks disrupted natural gas supplies to several districts , but caused no injuries .
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombings .
Elsewhere , Pakistani security forces say they attacked a militant hideout near the Afghan border , killing between 15 and 20 suspected militants .
A military statement said the operation began before dawn in the North Waziristan tribal region , where foreign militants and their local supporters are hiding .
Pakistan is trying to clear its rugged , semi-autonomous border lands of militants , many of whom fled there after the overthrow of the Taleban in Afghanistan .
Staff from Arabic television station al-Jazeera protested Thursday around the Middle East in the wake of a British news report that alleged President Bush considered bombing the channel 's headquarters last year .
Dozens of al-Jazeera reporters and staff members demonstrated outside the station 's headquarters in Doha , Qatar and in other cities .
They called for an investigation into the allegations raised in the Daily Mirror article , which was based on an allegedly leaked official memorandum .
In Cairo , Beirut and Gaza City , al-Jazeera staffers were joined by colleagues from other Arab media .
The White House has dismissed the tabloid report as " outlandish and inconceivable . "
After its front-page story Tuesday , the Daily Mirror and two other British papers said Britain 's government threatened them with legal action if they publish further details of the top secret document .
The foreign ministers of Japan and South Korea have discussed their strained relations in a meeting on the sidelines of an Asian summit in Malaysia 's capital , Kuala Lumpur .
During talks Saturday , Seoul 's Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon told his Japanese counterpart , Taro Aso , that visits by Japan 's prime minister to a controversial war shrine are disrupting bilateral relations .
The shrine honors Japan 's war dead , including convicted war criminals .
Critics , including South Korea and China , say the shrine glorifies Japan 's wartime past .
But Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi says he visits the shrine to pray for peace .
Thursday , China ruled out holding a meeting with senior leaders from Japan and South Korea during the regional summit , which officially begins Monday .
The three nations have met on the sidelines of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit for the past six years .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the Bush administration is still considering setting up a diplomatic mission in Iran .
Rice refuted an Associated Press report that the administration had decided to hand the issue to its successor .
She told reporters that Washington continues to look at the idea .
On a flight from India to Kazakhstan for talks on other matters , Rice called the idea interesting .
She did not comment further .
The United States and Iran are at odds over the Middle East country 's nuclear program .
Iran has ignored U.N. resolutions demanding that it stop uranium enrichment .
U.S. and European governments fear that Iran is trying to build a nuclear bomb .
Tehran denies that and says it wants only to produce low-grade fuel for nuclear energy .
The same enrichment process also could be used to produce highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons .
A published report says U.S. military officials in Iraq knew that American forces were abusing detainees throughout that country , more than a month before mistreatment at the Abu Ghraib prison was uncovered .
The Washington Post newspaper Wednesday , says a confidential report about the abuse was given to Army generals in Iraq in December 2003 , before military investigators received photographs of the abuses at Abu Ghraib .
That Abu Ghraib scandal became public several months later when news media published photographs of the abuse .
The Post says the confidential report was written by retired Colonel Stuart Herrington .
He disclosed that members of a special joint military and Central Intelligence Agency task force TF-121 were abusing detainees throughout Iraq and using a secret interrogation facility to hide their activities .
A Pentagon official told the Post the Herrington report was taken very seriously , and that its findings were passed on to U.S. Central Command .
The moderate faction of Indian Kashmir 's main political separatist alliance says it will urge Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf to include them in talks with India on the future of the divided region .
The chairman of the alliance , Mirwaiz Umar Farooq , says he intends to tell General Musharraf that the Kashmir dispute can not be solved without the inclusion of Kashmiris .
The Pakistani leader is due to meet the separatists in New Delhi during a visit Sunday to watch an India-Pakistan cricket match .
The two South Asian nuclear rivals have twice gone to war over Kashmir since they gained independence from Britain .
But their relations have improved since the launch of a peace process last year .
The process received a boost last week when the two sides re-opened a historic bus route across the military line-of-control for the first time in nearly 60 years .
Financial services - banking , fund management , insurance - account for about 23 % of employment and about 55 % of total income in this tiny , prosperous Channel Island economy .
Tourism , manufacturing , and horticulture , mainly tomatoes and cut flowers , have been declining .
Financial services , construction , retail , and the public sector have been growing .
Light tax and death duties make Guernsey a popular tax haven .
The evolving economic integration of the EU nations is changing the environment under which Guernsey operates .
Iraq 's government says Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki will make his first official visit to Iran on Monday .
Officials say his two-day visit will focus on security issues and promoting bilateral relations .
Earlier this week , Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh led a delegation of officials on a visit to Iran aimed at enhancing economic ties between the two nations .
Iraq and Iran fought a bloody war in the 1980s when then-Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein was in power .
The neighboring countries have tried to build closer ties in recent years .
Colombian police say U.S. and Colombian drug enforcement agents have dismantled a major narcotics smuggling operation .
Authorities say the drug ring had been smuggling huge amounts of heroin and cocaine into the United States from Latin America .
At least 27 people were arrested in the operation , most of them in Colombia .
Police say they also confiscated 61 kilograms of heroin and at least 129 kilograms of cocaine , worth more than seven million dollars .
Colombia is the world 's largest producer of cocaine , most of which is shipped to the United States .
Wal-Mart said Friday it will pay the U.S. government $ 11 million to settle charges that it used illegal immigrants to clean its stores in the United States .
Wal-Mart is the world 's biggest retailer , with $ 256 billion in sales , 1.5 million employees , and more than 5,000 stores in the United States and eight other nations .
News reports say since 1998 , federal authorities have found hundreds of cases of illegal immigrants working for contractors in Wal-Marts across the country .
The company says it did not adequately check to see whether employees hired by cleaning contractors could work in the United States legally .
The company vowed to do better in the future .
Mexico 's Institutional Revolutionary Party has selected Roberto Madrazo as its candidate for the 2006 presidential election .
Mr. Madrazo easily defeated challenger Everado Moreno during Sunday 's PRI primary election .
Mr. Madrazo is a former Tobasco state governor who headed the PRI until recently .
His nomination was virtually assured after his main challenger Arturo Montiel dropped out last month amid allegations of corruption .
The presidential primary is the party first since it was defeated by President Vicente Fox and his National Action Party in 2000 after the PRI held power for seven decades .
During that time , Mexican presidents handpicked their successors in the party .
With conservative president Fox not allowed to run again , Mr. Madrazo will face conservative Felipe Calderon and leftist Andres Manual Lopez Obrador in next July 's election .
Mr. Obrador is currently leading most opinion polls .
U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy , a Democratic Party leader who is suffering from brain cancer , has returned to Washington to work on the issue of health care reform .
Senator Kennedy released a statement Monday , saying he would lay the groundwork for early action by Congress on health reform after President-elect Barack Obama takes office in January .
Kennedy also said he was grateful for the prayers and good wishes he has received in recent months .
The Massachusetts senator , who was first elected in 1962 , underwent surgery in June for a malignant brain tumor .
He made a brief appearance in the Senate in July , and delivered a speech supporting Mr. Obama at the Democratic National Convention in August .
Two of his brothers , President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert Kennedy , were assassinated in the 1960s .
Another brother , Joseph Kennedy , was killed while serving in World War II .
Economic activity is limited to providing services to military personnel and contractors located on the island .
All food and manufactured goods must be imported .
U.S. lawmaker Connie Mack says Arabic-language al-Jazeera television , which has allied with Latin America 's Telesur network , is nothing more than a mouthpiece for terrorists .
The Republican congressman from the southeastern U.S. state of Florida tells VOA he is very concerned about that alliance .
Earlier , he said it would create a global network for terrorists and other enemies of freedom .
He is calling for Congress to pass a plan authorizing the U.S. government to begin radio and television broadcasts into Venezuela .
Thursday , Venezuela 's Communications Ministry said Congressman Mack 's comments represent a veiled threat that the United States will attack Telesur 's headquarters in Caracas .
A spokesman for the State Department said Friday it is not up to the U.S. government to dictate what sort of business deals media organizations can make .
Authorities in Belarus have detained several key members of the campaign staff of opposition presidential candidate Alexander Milinkevich .
The detentions came after the candidate held a rally outside a movie theater in the capital , Minsk , ahead of the country 's March 19 presidential election .
The opposition website , Charter97 identifies one of those detained as Vintsuk Vyachorka , leader of the Belarus Popular Front .
The website says other campaign workers had no information about the detainees for several hours , but then learned they had been taken to a Minsk prison .
The incident is the latest instance of harassment of candidates challenging President Alexander Lukashenko in the election .
Mr. Lukashenko has ruled the former Soviet republic since 1994 , and is seeking a third term .
The West has criticized him for his poor human rights record and for quashing political opposition .
The United States has called him Europe 's last dictator .
Israel 's Defense Minister - harshly criticized for his performance during last summer 's war in Lebanon - says he will leave the defense ministry , probably after his Labor party holds a leadership election late this month .
Amir Peretz said in a Saturday interview on Israeli Television ( Channel 2 ) he intends to hand the defense ministry portfolio over to the Kadima party and ask for the finance ministry in exchange .
Peretz and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert have been under pressure to resign since the release of a report that said the two men were responsible for serious failures in the war in Lebanon .
Many Israelis consider the war a failure because Israel did not defeat Hezbollah or get back the two soldiers whose kidnapping by the Islamic militant group triggered the war .
President Bush will visit the U.S. Gulf Coast Sunday as the region continues to clean-up from Hurricane Katrina .
The visit will be Mr. Bush 's third trip to the area since the devastating storm hit nearly two weeks ago .
Cleanup and recovery efforts in New Orleans are showing signs of progress .
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers now says it will take 40 days to pump the floodwaters out of the city , cutting its original estimate in half .
The city 's Louis Armstrong International Airport will reopen to passenger traffic on Tuesday .
Meanwhile , the block-to-block search continues for those killed when Katrina hit landfall .
Officials now cautiously say the death toll may be far lower than the thousands originally feared .
The death toll now stands at nearly 400 across the region , with 154 in New Orleans .
Signs are mounting that the dominant Fatah faction of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas may consider delaying key parliamentary elections scheduled for July .
The issue has emerged one month after the militant Palestinian Islamic group Hamas announced that it would end a nearly decade-long boycott and participate in the July elections .
Palestinian lawmakers say the election may be delayed because a modified election law may not be adopted in time .
But other officials say parliamentary leaders want to delay the vote for fear Hamas , which has gained considerable public support , would undercut Fatah 's power in parliament .
Hamas emerged as a key player in Palestinian politics after winning an overwhelming victory in its Gaza Strip strongholds in January 's municipal elections .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi launched his political campaign Saturday for the snap general election he has called on September 11 .
The prime minister says the focal point of the election will be his proposal for privatization of Japan 's national postal system , a sprawling business empire that includes savings institutions with three trillion dollars in assets .
Mr. Koizumi dissolved Parliament and called a general election about two weeks ago after Japan 's upper house voted down postal reforms - with members of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party joining the majority .
LDP leaders have withdrawn support for lawmakers who voted " no " on August 8 , and say they will not be allowed to run for re-election .
A Yomiuri newspaper poll this week shows support for Mr. Koizumi has risen to 53.2 percent , up 5.5 percentage points since he dissolved Parliament .
Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas and the exiled political leader of the militant group Hamas have held a rare meeting in Cairo , their first since their parties formed a coalition government .
Mr. Abbas of the moderate Fatah movement and Hamas ' political chief Khaled Mashaal met Friday in Cairo .
They had been expected to discuss an exchange of prisoners with Israel , the internal situation in the Palestinian territory , and an effort to lift international sanctions against the Palestinian government .
Details of the meeting have not been released .
The rival Palestinian groups Fatah and Hamas formed a unity government in March .
The two sides hoped to end a Western embargo against the Palestinian authority and to end months of factional fighting that killed more than 130 people .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say at least 15 people died when a bus veered off a steep mountain road and plunged into a gorge .
Reports from the area Wednesday say at least 15 other people on the bus were injured but survived the accident .
Survivors ' accounts indicate the driver lost control of the bus on a sharp curve , and the vehicle plunged 250 meters down a mountainside .
Villagers and police used ropes to reach the wreck .
The bus had been traveling through the Tajouri district , nearly 200 kilometers northwest of Jammu city , Indian Kashmir 's winter capital .
Iraqi officials say the country 's deputy minister of electricity , Raad al-Harith , and seven of his bodyguards have been freed hours after their abduction in Baghdad .
The fate of 12 other bodyguards kidnapped with them is not known .
Gunmen wearing camouflage uniforms intercepted the minister 's convoy early Tuesday .
The abduction was the second high-profile kidnapping in Baghdad in less than a week .
On Saturday , gunmen kidnapped a Sunni Arab legislator , Tayseer al-Mashhadani , and seven of her bodyguards .
Sunni lawmakers have since boycotted parliament and demanded her release .
Separately , the U.S. military says coalition forces detained three suspected al-Qaida in Iraq terrorists , including a senior member of the group , Monday during a raid near Tikrit .
The U.S. military also says Iraqi soldiers rescued three Red Crescent employees from kidnappers Monday near the Al-Nida Mosque in Baghdad .
Prosecutors at the trial of Saddam Hussein have presented a document they said is signed by Saddam approving the execution of 148 Shi'ite Muslim villagers .
The prosecutors Tuesday said the June 1984 document confirmed the death sentences passed by a tribunal .
Saddam and seven others are on trial for the killings in Dujail , which happened in a crackdown following an assassination attempt against Saddam .
Their trial resumed briefly Tuesday after a two week break with the defendants and their legal team present .
They had boycotted previous sessions .
Chief Judge Raouf Abdel-Rahman announced the five-judge panel rejected a defense request to remove him and the chief prosecutor from the trial .
Saddam 's head defense lawyer Khalil al-Dulaimi said he would appeal the decision and asked for a halt in the court 's proceedings .
He then walked out of the court .
The trial has been adjourned until Wednesday .
The defendants face hanging if convicted .
The United States says it is being forced to suspend food aid to North Korea because of Pyongyang 's decision to stop allowing the United Nations to distribute the food .
State Department spokesman Adam Ereli said Thursday U.S. policy requires that international relief workers be able to monitor the distribution of its food .
That safeguard will disappear when the U.N. World Food Program ( WFP ) stops distributing food in North Korea this month .
Mr. Ereli said it is a common practice for North Korea to " ignore the needs of its people " and " let them starve for inexplicable reasons . "
North Korea announced in August that it no longer wanted U.N. food aid because it said domestic food production had improved .
The WFP said it would close all its food-processing plants in North Korea by the end of this month .
An international donor 's conference has opened in Beijing , where world health officials hope to raise $ 1.5 billion to help stop the spread of bird flu .
Officials from about 90 countries are attending the two-day meeting sponsored by The World Bank , European Union , and China .
United Nations bird flu official , Dr. David Nabarro , says the $ 1.5 billion is to help poor countries set up prevention programs .
He says much more would be needed if bird flu becomes a global pandemic .
Health experts fear the deadly H5N1 strain could mutate into one that is easily spread among humans and create a worldwide catastrophe .
Bird flu has killed more than 80 people in southeast Asia , China , and Turkey since 2003 .
The European Union will start talks with Bosnia on Friday on an accord to move the country closer to joining the 25-nation bloc .
The EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn will travel to Bosnia to open talks on the Stabilization and Association Agreement .
EU foreign ministers say Bosnia 's progress on the agreement depends on its willingness to continue reforms and cooperate with the U.N. war crimes tribunal .
Two key Bosnian war crimes suspects , Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and army commander Ratko Mladic , remain at large .
The EU Monday also extended the mandate for the more than 6,000 peacekeeping troops in Bosnia through next year .
The EU decisions came as senior Bosnian and U.N. diplomats meet in Washington to mark the 10th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords , which ended the three-year war in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have ended a four-day operation , Spear , aimed at clearing insurgent bases and training camps in western Iraq .
Military officials say forces killed some 50 fighters and discovered more than a dozen car bombs in and around the town of Karabilah during the campaign .
U.S. officials also say a roadside bomb killed an American soldier in a separate incident in western Iraq .
In Baghdad , the new U.S. ambassador to Iraq , Zalmay Khalilzad , expressed horror at ongoing attacks by insurgents against Iraqi civilians .
Mr. Khalilzad made the comment after presenting his credentials to President Jalal Talabani in a meeting Tuesday .
Meantime , a top U.S. military commander , General John Vines , says some U.S. forces may begin leaving the country after elections scheduled for later this year .
The African Union says gunmen in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have killed another A.U. peacekeeper .
An A.U. spokesman says the unidentified attackers shot the peacekeeper and stole his vehicle late Saturday near the entrance of an A.U. compound in Al-Fasher , the capital of North Darfur state .
The nationality of the dead peacekeeper was not disclosed .
Seven A.U. troops have been killed in Darfur so far this month .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte had visited the A.U. compound in Al-Fasher Saturday .
He is in Sudan to try to persuade the government to permit the deployment of U.N. troops in Darfur .
The 7,000 A.U. peacekeepers currently in Darfur are poorly-equipped and have failed to ease the violence obstructing humanitarian work in the region .
A Rwandan peacekeeper with the A.U. force was shot dead last Tuesday , while gunmen killed five Senegalese peacekeepers on April 1 .
Pakistan has agreed to allow Indian diplomats to visit a jailed Indian man who was sentenced to death for spying .
A spokesman for Pakistan 's foreign ministry said Friday , that officials for the two countries will work out a date for the visit .
India has been pressing its neighbor for access to the man , Sarabjit Singh , whose 1991 conviction on spying and involvement in a series of bombings was upheld last week by Pakistan 's Supreme Court .
Singh 's family denies the charges , saying he is a farmer who accidentally strayed onto Pakistani soil 15 years ago .
The Indian government has been pressing Pakistan to spare the man 's life .
Pakistani officials say the suspected mastermind of the plot uncovered in London last week to blow up U.S.-bound airplanes is hiding in a mountainous region of northeastern Afghanistan .
The officials said Friday they told the U.S. military that the suspect , an al-Qaida operative , is believed to be in Afghanistan 's Kunar province , which borders Pakistan .
They have not disclosed his name .
They say the information was obtained by interrogators questioning British suspect Rashid Rauf , who was arrested in eastern Pakistan and is regarded as a key figure in the foiled plot .
Twenty-three people are in detention in Britain , and Pakistan is holding seven suspects in the plot .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev has arrived the Kazakhstan capital , Astana , on his first trip abroad since taking office earlier this month .
Mr. Medvedev will also travel to China , arriving in Beijing on Saturday .
Traditionally new Russian leaders visit European countries on their first official foreign trips .
However , the visit to Asia highlights the importance that Russia places on energy resources in the region .
Mr. Medvedev is expected to discuss energy and space cooperation .
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union , Moscow has tried to regain influence over the former Central Asian republics .
Russia has competed with the West and China over access to oil and gas reserves in Central Asia .
Mr. Medvedev is due to visit Germany in early June on his first official trip to a European country .
Iraqi authorities say two car bombs in Baghdad have killed at least 23 people .
More than 80 people were wounded in the blasts , which went off in short succession .
The two blasts went off within moments of each other , one at a busy intersection near a security ministry building in the north of the capital .
The second car bomb exploded in western Baghdad , outside a mobile phone company and close by a popular restaurant .
There were no immediate claims of responsibility .
In a third incident Sunday , authorities said that at least one man was killed when a home-made bomb attached to his car exploded .
The bombings are the deadliest since the U.S. officially changed the name of its mission in Iraq earlier this month from one of combat to advice and training , a move accompanied by a drawdown in U.S. forces .
President Bush has started the new year by visiting wounded troops at a military hospital in San Antonio , Texas .
The president traveled from his ranch in Crawford to the medical facility at Fort Sam Houston earlier today .
A White House spokesman said he would award nine Purple Hearts to wounded soldiers .
Mr. Bush is expected to return to Washington later today , wrapping up his week-long Christmas holiday in Texas .
Mr. Bush faces several key issues at the start of the new year , including lobbying Congress to reapprove the Patriot Act , ushering his Supreme Court nominee Samuel Alito through the Senate confirmation process , and overseeing military deployments in Afghanistan and Iraq as some lawmakers call for troop withdrawals .
Dozens of people in Vietnam staged a short anti-Japan protest outside the Japanese Embassy in Hanoi Sunday .
The demonstrators , wearing headbands and carrying banners in Chinese characters , stood outside the embassy and shouted slogans .
The protesters were believed to be Chinese nationals living in Vietnam .
A heavy presence of Vietnamese police was on hand to prevent violence .
Demonstrations are rare in Vietnam where the communist government keeps a tight lid on dissent .
Today 's demonstration comes after days of violent protests in China over Japan 's wartime past and its bid for a permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council .
A flurry of reports Tuesday shows problems for the U.S. economy in the services , retail , factory , and housing sectors .
Services make up the vast majority of the world 's largest economy , but were hit hard in December as consumers cut spending and housing slumped .
However , the industry group the Institute for Supply Management that tracks the data says December 's figures showed the services sector shrinking at a slower rate than the prior month .
Retail sales are also troubled .
Big discounts following the Christmas holiday , December 25 , had consumers shopping for bargains , but were not enough to help retailers salvage a disappointing holiday shopping season .
An industry group , the International Council of Shopping Centers , says sales fell almost one percent last week , compared to the same time last year .
Other reports Tuesday show U.S. factory orders falling sharply and pending home resales off sharply in November .
The White House says President George Bush has reaffirmed strong U.S.-Pakistani relations , in a phone call he made to Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf .
Friday 's conversation between the two leaders took place a day after Mr. Musharraf dismissed media speculation he is ready to resign .
He also said there are no differences between him and the chief of the country 's powerful military , General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani .
Mr. Musharraf was referring to a report in a Pakistani newspaper , The News Daily , that speculated he was about to quit following a meeting with the general on Wednesday .
The military said the two men discussed routine matters .
Police in Denmark have arrested four Danish Muslims suspected of plotting a terror attack in Europe .
The four , aged between 16 and 20 , were arrested in and around Copenhagen on Thursday and ordered held while police conduct an investigation .
The arrests were made on a tip the Danish intelligence service PET had received from another country .
Authorities say the arrests are linked to an investigation in Bosnia , in which a Turk , a Swede and a Bosnian were arrested in Sarajevo on October 19 and 20 on suspicion of preparing a terrorist attack .
Following the July 7 bus and subway bombings in London , Denmark , an American ally in Iraq , has also been identified as a terrorist target .
Insurgents in Iraq killed nine American troops Thursday in the latest violence in the run up to Iraq 's January 30th elections .
Seven of the U.S. soldiers were killed when their vehicle hit an improvised explosive device in Baghdad during a routine patrol .
To the west of the capital , in Al Anbar province , two U.S. Marines were killed while conducting security operations .
The attacks came as Iraq 's interim prime minister , Iyad Allawi , extended emergency laws for another month .
The laws , which have been in place for two months , give Iraq 's government the power to impose curfews and restrict movement between cities .
Meanwhile , the French newspaper Liberation , says it has not heard from its Baghdad correspondent , Florence Aubenas , and her Iraqi interpreter in over 24 hours , raising concerns for their safety .
The foreign relations committee of Pakistan 's upper house of parliament has condemned what it called the Israeli " aggression " on Lebanon and urged the international community to pressure the Jewish state to halt the strikes .
The demand came through a unanimously adopted resolution at a special session of the Senate committee held in Islamabad .
Pakistan has no diplomatic relations with Israel .
Some 800 Pakistani students staged demonstrations in the southern port city of Karachi to protest against the Israeli action .
In neighboring Bangladesh , Foreign Minister M. Morshed Khan urged Western countries " to restrain Israel " from such attacks and said many Western countries use a double standard in dealing with the Middle East .
Afghan officials say President Hamid Karzai is considering offering a government post to a powerful regional warlord , despite concerns over his role in alleged human rights abuses .
A presidential spokesman Jawed Ludin told a news briefing in Kabul Tuesday that General Abdul Rashid Dostum held several meetings with the president to discuss a possible government position .
Asked about charges that General Dostum was guilty of human rights abuses and war crimes , the spokesman said it was a completely different issue .
He stressed that everyone in Afghanistan has the right to fulfill their responsibilities and be given opportunity to do so .
General Dostum 's faction helped U.S.-led coalition forces oust the former Taleban regime in 2001 .
He finished fourth in last year 's presidential elections and narrowly escaped an assassination attempt in January .
Since the 1960s , South Korea has achieved an incredible record of growth and global integration to become a high-tech industrialized economy .
Four decades ago , GDP per capita was comparable with levels in the poorer countries of Africa and Asia .
In 2004 , South Korea joined the trillion dollar club of world economies , and currently is among the world 's 20 largest economies .
Initially , a system of close government and business ties , including directed credit and import restrictions , made this success possible .
The government promoted the import of raw materials and technology at the expense of consumer goods , and encouraged savings and investment over consumption .
The Asian financial crisis of 1997 - 98 exposed longstanding weaknesses in South Korea 's development model including high debt / equity ratios and massive short-term foreign borrowing .
GDP plunged by 6.9 % in 1998 , and then recovered by 9 % in 1999 - 2000 .
Korea adopted numerous economic reforms following the crisis , including greater openness to foreign investment and imports .
Growth moderated to about 4 - 5 % annually between 2003 and 2007 .
With the global economic downturn in late 2008 , South Korean GDP growth slowed to 0.2 % in 2009 .
In the third quarter of 2009 , the economy began to recover , in large part due to export growth , low interest rates , and an expansionary fiscal policy , and growth exceeded 6 % in 2010 .
The South Korean economy 's long term challenges include a rapidly aging population , inflexible labor market , and overdependence on manufacturing exports to drive economic growth .
The Jamaican economy is heavily dependent on services , which now account for more than 60 % of GDP .
The country continues to derive most of its foreign exchange from tourism , remittances , and bauxite / alumina .
Remittances account for nearly 15 % of GDP and exports of bauxite and alumina make up about 10 % .
The bauxite / alumina sector was most affected by the global downturn while the tourism industry was resilient , experiencing an increase of 4 % in tourist arrivals .
Tourism revenues account for roughly 10 % of GDP , and both arrivals and revenues grew in 2010 , up 4 % and 6 % respectively .
The Economic growth faces many challenges : high crime and corruption , large-scale unemployment and underemployment , and a debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 120 % .
Jamaica 's onerous public debt burden - the fourth highest in the world on a per capita basis - is the result of government bailouts to ailing sectors of the economy , most notably to the financial sector in the mid-to-late 1990s .
In early 2010 , the Jamaican government created the Jamaica Debt Exchange ( JDX ) in order to retire high-priced domestic bonds and significantly reduce annual debt servicing .
The Government of Jamaica signed a $ 1.27 billion , 27-month Standby Agreement with the International Monetary Fund for balance of payment support in February 2010 .
Other multilaterals have also provided millions of dollars in loans and grants .
Despite the improvement , debt servicing costs still hinder the government 's ability to spend on infrastructure and social programs , particularly as job losses rise in a shrinking economy .
The GOLDING administration faces the difficult prospect of having to achieve fiscal discipline in order to maintain debt payments , while simultaneously attacking a serious crime problem that is hampering economic growth .
High unemployment exacerbates the crime problem , including gang violence that is fueled by the drug trade .
The United States is formally protesting China 's decision to deny a visa to U.S. Olympic gold medalist and Darfur anti-violence campaigner Joey Cheek .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Wednesday the U.S. is disturbed to learn that China has refused his visa .
Cheek , a speedskater who competed in the 2006 Winter Olympics , had planned to go to Beijing to support Olympic athletes who are members of Team Darfur .
The group aims to call attention to the humanitarian crisis in Sudan 's Darfur region .
China is a major investor in Sudan and has come under increasing pressure to help end the violence in Darfur .
International experts say more than 200,000 people have died and some 2.5 million have been displaced from their homes since Darfur rebel groups rose up against the Sudanese government in 2003 .
Sudan says Western governments and media have exaggerated the scale of the conflict .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says the government is cutting its troops in Chechnya by 1,000 .
Mr. Ivanov made the announcement Friday at a military installation in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don .
He gave no reason for the action .
The Itar-Tass news agency says airborne troops and marine units in the mountainous regions of Chechnya will be withdrawn .
Mr. Ivanov says the only forces that will remain next year in the war-torn breakaway republic will be an infantry division and Defense Ministry commando forces .
Russia has been fighting separatists in Chechnya for most of the past decade , in a conflict that has devastated the region .
President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly said the fighting is dying down , but the violence continues .
Former Czech President Vaclav Havel has delivered a letter to the Belarus Embassy in Prague , calling on Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko to step down .
Mr. Havel says he was denied entry to the building Tuesday and left the letter in the embassy 's mailbox .
He said the letter was meant as an act of solidarity with those in Belarus struggling for more freedom .
He added that the Czech people know the importance of such solidarity .
Mr. Havel also called on European Union countries to , in his words , resist evil from the very beginning and not wait for what he called " catastrophic consequences . "
Democratic Party officials say U.S. Senator Christopher Dodd of the northeastern state of Connecticut will seek the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination .
The 62-year-old veteran lawmaker is expected to announce his candidacy Thursday on a nationally syndicated radio show .
The son of a former U.S. senator , Dodd was elected to the House of Representatives in 1974 , and served three terms before his election to the Senate in 1980 .
He voted to authorize military action against Iraq in 2002 , but has since become a vocal critic of President Bush 's handling of the war .
Dodd joins a growing field of official candidates , including former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina , Iowa Governor Tom Vilsack , and Representative Dennis Kucinich of Ohio .
Two other sitting senators , New York 's Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama of Illinois , are also considering seeking the nomination .
Janice Karpinski
The U.S. Army has demoted the reserve officer who commanded the military police unit at Iraq 's Abu Ghraib in a highly publicized prisoner abuse scandal .
The Army says Brigadier General Janice Karpinski was found guilty of dereliction of duty , and , upon President Bush 's approval , she was demoted to colonel .
However , the Army says no action or lack of action by General Karpinski contributed specifically to the abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib .
General Karpinski is the highest-ranking U.S. officer to be punished in the wake of the prison scandal .
Earlier this week , a U.S. military judge threw out the guilty plea of Army Private First Class Lynndie England in connection with the scandal .
Her case will now be sent back to military authorities for further consideration .
Iraqi police say a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad has killed seven police officers .
The policemen were in a convoy traveling on a road east of the city of Diwaniyah .
The region south of Baghdad is known for frequent clashes between rival Shi'ite groups and violence against U.S.-led forces .
North of Baghdad , authorities say a suicide truck bomber hit a checkpoint operated by Kurdish peshmerga militiamen at Jalawla in Diyala province , killing one and wounding 10 .
Separately , the U.S. military says coalition forces detained 15 suspects in operations targeting al-Qaida in Iraq terrorists in central and northern parts of the country early Wednesday .
Trade unions in Nigeria have begun a planned three-day nationwide strike over a salary dispute with the government .
The two unions want the government to raise the monthly minimum wage to $ 120 , a significant increase over the current $ 50 minimum salary .
Witnesses say many state and government workers in Nigeria 's largest city , Lagos , and Abuja , the capital , are not on the job .
The Nigeria Labor Congress and the Trade Union Congress decided to go ahead with the strike despite an emergency meeting with President Goodluck Jonathan Tuesday evening .
But the union leaders plan to meet later Wednesday to discuss their next course of action .
The two labor federations represent workers in most sectors of Nigeria 's economy .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 376-7 by stumps on the first day of its second test match against India in Sydney .
After winning the toss and electing to bat first , Australia lost four wickets in rapid succession .
However , Andrew Symonds was able to lift his team out of trouble with an unbeaten 137 runs , his second career test century .
Indian bowler R. P. Singh was 4-28 in 21 overs .
Harbhajan Singh finished 2-88 .
Symonds resurrected the home team 's innings with partnerships of 173 with Brad Hogg and 69 with Brett Lee .
Hogg was caught out for 79 runs while Lee was not out for 31 .
Australia won the first test of the series by 337 runs in Melbourne .
The Aussies are hoping to win their 16th test match in a row .
The third test starts in Perth on January 16th .
Junoon means " obsession " in the Urdu language .
It is the name of one of Pakistan 's and perhaps South Asia 's most popular rock bands .
The group is based in Karachi , and was formed in 1990 by guitarist , songwriter and medical doctor Salman Ahmad .
Sometimes when Junoon performs in the United States , an American-based singer of Indian origin , known as Falu , opens for the group .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna brings us a glimpse of Falu 's life and music , based on an interview by VOA 's Ethnomusicologist , Brian Q. Silver .
Maoist rebels in Nepal have raided a western town , in one of their largest assaults since ending a unilateral ceasefire earlier this month .
Security officials say at least six policemen were missing , but no casualties were reported when the rebels fired on a police station as well as banks and offices in the town of Dhangadi overnight .
The officials say Nepalese soldiers returned fire , and reclaimed control of the town after a prolonged gunbattle .
Maoist rebels have carried out a series of attacks in western Nepal since they canceled a four-month long truce on January second .
The guerillas say they resumed hostilities because Nepal 's royalist government refused to match the ceasefire .
The Maoists have been fighting to overthrow Nepal 's monarchy since 1996 .
At least 12,000 people have died in the fighting .
Peruvian officials say they will not free a U.S. woman serving a 20-year sentence for terrorist collaboration , even if a regional human rights court orders her release .
Foreign Minister Manuel Rodriguez said Saturday if the Inter-American Court of Human Rights orders Lori Berenson 's release , Peru would refuse .
The Costa Rica-based court is set to discuss the case this coming week .
Berenson was arrested in 1995 and accused of involvement in a failed attempt by the rebel Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement to seize Peru 's Congress .
A military court initially convicted and sentenced Berenson to life in prison for treason .
That sentence was overturned and she was re-tried by a civilian court .
She was acquitted of being an active member of the rebel group but convicted of helping the guerrillas plan the attack on the Congress .
Berenson has maintained her innocence .
The White House says President Bush will make an evening address to the nation on Monday , the fifth anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States .
It will be the latest in a series of speeches about terrorism that the President has made in the past two weeks .
He has been highlighting what he calls the nation 's progress in the war on terrorism , ahead of key midterm elections in November .
A presidential spokesman said Friday that Mr. Bush 's speech will be non-political and will focus on what the September 11 attacks have meant to the nation .
On Sunday and Monday the president is scheduled to visit the sites of the attacks in New York City , Shanksville , Pennsylvania and the Pentagon in Washington .
Democrats accuse Mr. Bush of emphasizing anti-terror efforts lately to distract from the increasingly unpopular war in Iraq .
A suicide bomber in the Russia 's Chechnya republic killed six people and wounded at least 10 others outside a theater in the capital of Grozny on Sunday .
Four of the victims were police officers who stopped the bomber from getting inside the concert hall just before a show was to start .
Other victims included a Turk and a Georgian .
The bomber , who was also killed , has not yet been identified .
Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov says the attack will not stop efforts to wipe out Chechen rebels .
Russian forces have been fighting Islamic separatists in southern Russia for most of the last 15 years .
Taliban militants have shot and killed a man for teaching English in eastern Afghanistan , sparking a gunbattle that left two militants and two policemen dead .
Provincial officials Thursday said the man was teaching English courses at a school in the eastern Paktia province when he was killed Wednesday .
Police arrived on the scene and clashed with militants , resulting in casualties on both sides .
Taliban militants have destroyed a number of schools in Afghanistan and repeatedly target those seen as sympathetic to foreign governments .
Separately , U.S-led coalition troops Thursday said they killed several militants in an operation on Wednesday in the southern Helmand province .
This year has been the deadliest in Afghanistan since a U.S.-led invasion ousted the Taliban government in 2001 .
Taliban militants have established strongholds in the south and east , attacking U.S. and NATO troops and Afghan soldiers in ambushes and suicide bombings .
Top Palestinian officials have arrived in Lebanon for the first visit by Palestinian leadership in more than two decades .
The head of the Palestine Liberation Organization , Mahmoud Abbas , and Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia are due to meet with Lebanese President Emile Lahoud and other top officials Wednesday .
Monday , Mr. Abbas was in Syria for landmark talks with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to discuss plans for future peace efforts with Israel .
The trips by Palestinian leaders to Lebanon and Syria are aimed at improving relations that were strained under Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , who died last month .
Both countries opposed Mr. Arafat 's signing of the Oslo peace accords in 1993 , saying the agreement derailed a joint Arab approach to peace with Israel .
Iraqi security officials say Turkish warplanes have attacked suspected Kurdish rebel targets in northern Iraq .
They say the aircraft struck an area near the village of Rekan in the northern province of Dahuk .
No further details or casualty reports are available .
Turkey has stepped up military operations this year against the rebel Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , both inside Turkey and in northern Iraq .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in southeastern Turkey for nearly 25 years , and during that time violence involving the rebels has killed more than 30,000 people .
The United States , Turkey and other countries classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
A published report says the United Nations will try to produce an alternative to its widely discredited Human Rights Commission within weeks .
The New York Times reports Sunday that U.N. officials have decided they must act quickly in order to restore the world body 's credibility this year .
The Human Rights Commission has come under fire for allowing the participation of countries accused of severe human rights violations .
Negotiations on a new commission resume later this month .
Some agreement must be reached quickly in order for a plan to be in place by March when the current commission reconvenes in Geneva .
A new Human Rights Commission is part of Secretary-General Kofi Annan 's comprehensive reform plan for the United Nations .
Authorities in the United Arab Emirates have arrested a Syrian suspect in the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Reports from the region on Sunday said Emirati police recently detained a former Syrian intelligence officer , identified as Mohammed Zuhair Siddiq , in connection with the 2005 attack .
The reports say Syrian authorities have requested his extradition from the Emirate of Sharjah .
Emirati officials have not confirmed the reported arrest .
Many anti-Syrian Lebanese accuse Syria of carrying out the truck bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and 22 others in Beirut in February 2005 , a charge Damascus denies .
Lebanon began handing over files from its investigation of the attack to a U.N.-sponsored special tribunal in the Netherlands earlier this month .
A Lebanese judge said four pro-Syrian Lebanese generals detained in connection with the assassination will remain in jail until the tribunal in The Hague decides what to do with them .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said again Sunday that she has no interest in running for president in 2008 .
A group pushing for a Rice presidential run has aired a television commercial in New Hampshire , the state which traditionally hosts the country 's first presidential primary .
Interviewed on two U.S. television talk shows , Secretary Rice said she is flattered by the ad but has no desire to run for office .
She told NBC 's Meet the Press that being president is not what she wants to do with her life .
Ms. Rice first denied having any interest in the job on the same program back in March .
Some Republicans believe Ms. Rice would be the party 's best presidential candidate for the 2008 election if Democrats nominate Senator Hillary Clinton , wife of former President Bill Clinton .
Residents who did not evacuate New Orleans face a new threat as floodwaters race through the low-lying city through breaches in area levees .
New Orleans mayor , Ray Nagin , says at least 80 percent of the city is already flooded .
The storm had blown out windows from many downtown buildings , and ripped holes in the roof of the Superdome arena , where some 10,000 residents sought shelter overnight from the storm .
Hospital officials say they are using emergency generators and are considering evacuating patients as the floodwaters rise .
The World Health Organization says manufacturers will be able to produce only about 3 billion doses of H1N1 swine flu vaccine this year , instead of the earlier predicted 5 billion .
The organization says a single dose of the vaccine will be sufficient for healthy adults and older children , but will be inadequate to cover the world 's 6.8 billion people .
The United Nations health agency says Australia , China , Hungary and the United States have already licensed vaccines for the pandemic strain of the illness .
Japan and several countries in Europe will follow shortly .
Ecuador 's ousted President Lucio Lucio Gutierrez Gutierrez is flying to exile in Brazil , four days after being removed from office .
He left Quito on a Brazilian air force plane .
Mr. Gutierrez had been in the residence of Brazil 's ambassador since Ecuador 's congress voted him from office on Wednesday after a week of huge street protests .
Protesters had been camped outside the residence demanding that Mr. Gutierrez be tried for abuse of power .
A state prosecutor also had ordered his arrest in connection with the deaths of two people in the recent clashes between police and protesters .
Ecuador 's political crisis began in December after Mr. Gutierrez restructured the country 's Supreme Court with his allies .
Eyewitnesses and medical officials say an Israeli military strike killed two Palestinians and wounded at least seven people Wednesday in the Gaza Strip .
The Islamic Jihad says one of the two killed was a member of the militant group .
At least one child was among those injured .
The Israeli military said its forces opened fire on a group of suspected militants who approached a border fence in northern Gaza .
The military said the soldiers were responding to reports that a rocket launching cell had been spotted in the area .
In April , Israel warned it would increase the use of military force against militants in Gaza unless Palestinians stopped firing rockets across the border .
Deputy Prime Minister Silvan Shalom announced the warning during a radio interview after Israeli warplanes launched a series of strikes against targets in Hamas-ruled Gaza .
The head of the United Nations says the peacekeeping force in Ivory Coast is overstretched and needs thousands of additional troops as long-delayed elections near .
In a report to the Security Council , Secretary-General Kofi Annan recommended an additional 3,400 troops and 475 policemen be sent to the west African nation .
Elections scheduled for last October have been postponed by up to a year .
Now , nearly 6,900 U.N. soldiers and 4,000 French troops patrol the buffer zone between the government-run south and rebel-controlled north .
Another 700 police officers help keep the peace in urban areas and train Ivory Coast officers .
Mr. Annan 's recommendation comes days after unidentified gunmen attacked two military bases in the capital city of Abidjan .
The military says 10 people were killed in the fighting , although this has not been independently confirmed .
Cuban boxer Guillermo Rigondeaux , a two-time Olympic gold medalist , has defected to the United States and plans to turn professional .
A U.S. representative of German-based Arena-Box Promotion says Rigondeaux is in Miami and has signed a contract with the company .
The promoter would not say when or how the boxer made it to Miami .
Rigondeaux won the gold medal in the bantam weight division at the 2000 and 2004 Olympic games .
He was dropped from the Cuban team after he and teammate Erislandy Lara unsuccessfully tried to defect during the 2007 Pan-American Games in Rio de Janeiro .
They were arrested by Brazilian police and sent back to Cuba .
Rigondeaux is the latest world class boxer to leave Cuba .
Earlier defections include Lara and Odlanier Solis , the 2004 Olympic heavyweight champion .
According to recent polls , most Americans see the current financial crisis as a serious matter that needs immediate attention .
But most are unhappy with the current bailout bill in Congress .
While lawmakers are in recess for the Jewish holiday , Jeff Swicord sat down with average Americans in the Washington area , young and old , and asked them how they feel about the current crisis .
Outgoing Bolivian president Eduardo Rodriguez has dismissed the chief of the army over the destruction of at least 28 surface-to-air missiles .
Mr. Rodriguez told reporters late Tuesday he had relieved General Marcelo Antezana of his duties .
The firing came amidst a growing controversy over who in the government was responsible for sending the 28 aging , Chinese-made missiles to the United States to be dismantled last year .
Mr. Rodriguez has said he authorized destroying the missiles , but not shipping them to the United States .
A U.S. State Department spokesman last month denied charges of a secret , U.S.-led operation to remove the missiles from Bolivia .
He said Bolivia had requested help destroying them , in line with an international effort to regulate that type of weapon .
The dismissed army chief had recently called for the release of more information on the affair .
A United Nations report finds that opium production in most of Afghanistan 's main growing regions has declined since the government started a campaign against narcotics .
Afghanistan 's Counter Narcotics Minister , Habibullah Qaderi , says the survey found a falling trend of opium cultivation in a majority of provinces , notably in the main poppy-growing provinces such as Nangarhar , Helmand and Uruzgan .
Last month , President Hamid Karzai presented an eight-point plan to eradicate poppy production .
The United States and Britain have pledged hundreds of millions of dollars to fight drug production in Afghanistan , which is the world 's largest opium producer .
U.S. officials say Washington has given Eritrea 90 days to close its consulate in the western state of California .
The U.S. officials said on the condition of anonymity that the action was taken in response to the restrictions placed on the U.S. embassy in Eritrea .
An Eritrean government official dismissed the allegations saying it was part of an " unfriendly policy " towards Eritrea .
U.S.-Eritrean relations have declined in recent months as Eritrea increasingly blames Washington for the impasse in its border dispute with Ethiopia .
The U.S. embassy in Asmara suspended its visa services in January , saying Eritrea had interrupted the delivery of diplomatic pouches .
Human rights groups have criticized Eritrea for curtailing religious and media freedom and imprisoning political opponents .
Spanish cyclist Alberto Contador is set to ride into Paris Sunday as the winner of this year 's Tour de France .
Contador extended his overall race lead to 39 seconds after Saturday 's second-to-last stage .
The final day of the race is traditionally a ceremonial ride , meaning the leader after 19 stages is virtually assured to win the overall title .
Swiss rider Fabian Cancellara won Saturday 's 52-kilometer sprint leg , edging out Tony Martin of Germany by 17 seconds .
Contador is set to capture his third Tour de France title in four years .
Barring any crashes , Luxembourg 's Andy Schleck is poised to finish in second place for the second-straight year .
Contador 's winning margin is set to be one of the smallest in the Tour 's history .
Italy 's Culture Minister Rocco Buttiglione has welcomed the return of three disputed artifacts that had been in the possession of a California museum .
Mr. Buttiglione made the comment in Rome on Friday as the items -- an ancient bowl , a bronze candelabrum and a funeral stone -- were presented to the media .
The J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles returned the items without admitting guilt .
It has another 39 archeological treasures that Italy says are Italian property .
Italian authorities have charged the Getty museum 's former antiquities curator , Marion True , with receiving stolen antiquities from art dealer Robert Hecht .
Their trial resumes next week in Rome .
Italy is also seeking other allegedly looted treasures that are in the possession of U.S. museums , including an ancient Greek bowl from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York .
Security has been increased for Israeli cabinet ministers who have received death threats from Jewish militants for supporting Israel 's proposed removal of troops and settlers from the Gaza Strip .
In the latest threat , an Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot reports Transport Minister Meir Sheetrit received a letter saying his family will be killed if he continues to support the pullout set for later this year .
Polls show at least two-thirds of Israelis favor ending the occupation of Gaza .
But there is strong opposition from settlers and their supporters .
Meanwhile , an Israeli cabinet committee has approved the release of 500 Palestinian prisoners in the next few days .
The decision is being described as a gesture to Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas .
Israeli officials say they wo n't free any prisoners who were involved in violence against Israelis .
Egyptian state news media say President Hosni Mubarak has pardoned an outspoken newspaper editor sentenced to jail earlier this month for publishing false information about Mr. Mubarak 's health .
An Egyptian appeals court last month ruled that Ibrahim Eissa should spend two months in prison , prompting sharp criticism from press freedom groups and pro-democracy activists .
Eissa is editor-in-chief of the independent " Al-Dustour " daily newspaper .
He was prosecuted for publishing stories last year saying President Mubarak , now 80 years old , was in poor health .
A lower court originally sentenced him to six months with labor .
Eissa has been facing a number of other court cases over the past year stemming from his reports critical of Egyptian leaders .
Serbian officials are reacting with outrage at the possibility that an ethnic-Albanian guerrilla commander they accuse of war crimes may become Kosovo 's next prime minister .
Kosovo President Fatmir Sejdiu Thursday asked former guerrilla commander Agim Ceku to form a new government , one day after the resignation of Prime Minister Bajram Kosumi .
Mr. Kosumi had faced increasing criticism from the ruling coalition , which regarded him as ineffective .
Ceku , who led the Kosovo Liberation Army against Serb troops in 1998 and 1999 , says he is willing to assume the post .
Belgrade has accused Ceku of war crimes against Serb civilians during the fighting .
Serbia and Kosovo are involved in U.N.-sponsored talks on the future of the Serbian province .
Ethnic Albanians want independence , while Serbia wants to retain some control .
China estimates 700,000 of its citizens will be either be HIV-positive or living with full-blown AIDS by the end of 2007 .
Health Minister Chen Zhu announced the statistics Thursday in a press conference in Beijing .
He says the total includes 85,000 Chinese with AIDS .
The estimates are part of a joint report compiled by Beijing , the United Nations and the World Health Organization .
China had an estimated 650,000 HIV / AIDS infections at the end of 2006 .
Officially , over 223,000 Chinese were diagnosed as HIV-positive by the end of October , including more than 62,000 who already have full-blown AIDS .
Of the new infections , nearly 45 percent will come from heterosexual transmission , with 42 percent as the result of intravenous drug use .
Just over 12 percent will come from homosexual activity .
Australia 's public broadcaster has aired what it says are new , unpublished photographs of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners at Iraq 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison .
The images are said to be from the same time period as photos released in 2004 that sparked widespread criticism of U.S. detention conditions .
Defense Department spokesman Bryan Whitman says the department believes further release of these images could only inflame and possibly incite unnecessary violence in the world and endanger U.S. military personnel .
He did not comment on the specific images in the broadcast .
Australia 's government-funded Special Broadcasting Station ( SBS ) said the images " reveal further widespread abuse including new incidents of homicide , torture and sexual humiliation . "
The photographs are also at the center of an ongoing legal battle .
A federal judge had granted the American Civil Liberties Union access to the photos last year , but the U.S. government has appealed the decision .
Iraqi police say a bomb exploded Monday inside a bus in central Baghdad , killing four people .
Police say the bus was heading for the mainly Shi'ite district of Karradah when the bomb went off .
At least four people were wounded .
On Sunday , three car bombs exploded in mainly Shi'ite areas of Baghdad , killing at least 60 people .
It was the worst violence since U.S. and Iraqi forces began a new security campaign in the city last week .
Sunday 's blasts also wounded more than 100 people .
Officials say most of the casualties were caused by two car bombs at an outdoor market in the New Baghdad district .
A third car bomb exploded in Sadr City .
In another development , the U.S. military says two American soldiers died Saturday on patrol in Baghdad , and a Marine was killed in western al-Anbar province .
News reports citing sources familiar with the case say the European Union is ready to fine Microsoft at least $ 380 million for allegedly violating antitrust laws .
The European Commission - the union 's executive body - says the U.S. computer giant has failed to fully disclose technical information on how its flagship Windows operating system works .
The union ruled in 2004 that Microsoft must make that information known so other companies can design software compatible with Windows .
Microsoft denies violating EU laws .
The sources say the EU is giving Microsoft until the end of the month to comply , or say the company will face the fines .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon made an unannounced visit Friday to Afghanistan , where he met with President Hamid Karzai and the commander of NATO troops .
U.N. officials say Mr. Ban 's visit , his first to Afghanistan as U.N chief , was designed to ensure coordination between the United Nations and the Afghan government .
Along with President Karzai , Mr. Ban met the head of NATO 's International Security Assistance Force , General Dan McNeill , and other officials .
The visit comes ahead of a conference in Rome next week , which will focus on ways to improve Afghanistan 's justice system and tackle corruption .
In other developments Friday , the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan says troops killed at least three suspected militants and arrested 16 during a raid in the eastern province of Nangarhar .
But local officials say the soldiers killed four civilians after blowing up the gate of an Afghan family 's home .
The look of the future has preoccupied philosophers and designers for centuries .
One company in Belgium , Living Tomorrow , is trying to make the future more tangible by bringing together innovative product designers and high-tech companies .
The result is the House of the Future , which shows how life could be more comfortable , and more energy efficient , sometime in the future .
Nina-Maria Potts reports .
Ukraine 's Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych says a planned U.S. missile defense system in the Czech Republic and Poland will hurt Ukraine 's relations with those two countries .
Mr. Yanukovych told Tuesday 's edition of Germany 's Handelsblatt newspaper that such a project will not be beneficial to those ties .
He said the United States should have discussed its plans with Ukraine and Russia first .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Daniel Fried said last week that Washington explained the missile defense system to Moscow and NATO .
Washington says the system does not threaten Russia or any other country and is aimed at defending against a threat from the Middle East .
Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski said Tuesday his government will open talks with the United States on hosting the missile defense system within weeks .
Communists in Russia are marking the 88th anniversary of Lenin 's 1917 Bolshevik revolution that led to the founding of the Soviet Union .
Hundreds of people turned up for commemorations in several cities across the country .
During Soviet times , November 7 was a highly celebrated workers ' holiday , with huge government-sponsored parades and displays of military hardware .
But President Vladimir Putin scrapped the holiday last year , renaming it " National Unity Day " and shifting the date to November 4 to mark Russia 's victory over Poland in 1612 .
Monday 's anniversary comes as post-Soviet Russia tries to decide what to do with Lenin 's embalmed body , which has lain in state since 1924 in a large marble mausoleum in Moscow 's Red Square .
The tomb is considered a symbol of the old Soviet era .
Insurgents in Iraq have ambushed a car in the northern city of Mosul , killing four people .
Witnesses say the attack occurred Friday at an intersection in the western part of the city .
Three of the victims appeared to be Westerners , while the fourth apparently was their Iraqi driver .
There has been no confirmation of the victims ' nationalities .
The victims ' bodies were seen lying on the road beside their car .
One victim was nearly decapitated .
After the attack , the car was set on fire .
The U.S. military believes some insurgents fled to Mosul early last month , before the U.S.-led operation to crush insurgents in the city of Fallujah .
Violence in Mosul has increased in recent weeks , and the bodies of dozens of executed Iraqis have turned up in the city .
A top U.S. general says Iraq 's most wanted terrorist , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , is most likely in Baghdad after U.S.-led forces drove him out of the western city of Fallujah .
Briefing reporters at the Pentagon Wednesday , Lieutenant General Lance Smith said U.S. military officials believe al-Zarqawi is able to operate safely out of the Iraqi capital , and is still orchestrating attacks against U.S. and Iraqi forces .
General Smith also said insurgents are becoming more effective at using roadside bombs to disrupt U.S. military operations .
He said the method has made it difficult to maintain constant guard inside cities and urban areas .
Meanwhile , U.S military officials say the Pentagon will spend $ 4.1 billion over the next several months to install protective armor on nearly all Humvees and trucks in Iraq .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has been criticized recently for what some U.S. troops complain is a lack of well armored military vehicles .
A U.S. general in Iraq says coalition forces will play only a minor security role during Iraq 's January 30 election .
U.S. Brigadier General Carter Ham , head of multinational forces in northwestern Iraq , told reporters that although the size of Iraq 's security forces has diminished , there are sufficient numbers to secure polling stations and surrounding areas .
He said coalition forces will be nearby and will be able to respond quickly if asked for help .
General Ham 's comments Saturday came as Iraqi officials unveiled security measures for the election .
Officials say voters in the violence-ridden provinces of al-Anbar and Ninevah will be allowed to register and vote on the same day .
Officials also announced plans to restrict travel and ban traffic around polling stations to prevent car bombings .
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull , and sat there a long time .
Just as he was about to fly off , he made a buzzing noise , and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go .
The Bull replied , " I did not know you had come , and I shall not miss you when you go away . "
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors .
President Bush plans to nominate Zalmay Khalilzad as the new U.S. ambassador to Iraq .
Mr. Khalilzad , an Afghan-American , is currently the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan .
Senior administration officials say Mr. Khalilzad is the president 's choice to succeed John Negroponte in the challenging post in Baghdad .
No formal announcement has been made yet .
The president has nominated Mr. Negroponte to be the United States ' first Director of National Intelligence .
In 2003 , Mr. Bush asked Mr. Khalilzad to oversee elections and reconstruction efforts in war-ravaged Afghanistan .
Before that , he was one of the top national security advisers in the Bush administration .
International Olympic Committee vice president Chiharu Igaya has announced that the Olympic governing body will not alter age restrictions to make Japanese figure skater Mao Asada eligible for the Turin Winter Games .
Asada turned 15 in September , less than three months past the July 1 deadline set by the International Skating Union ( ISU ) for eligibility for the Winter Olympics .
The ISU made the rule change in 1996 to help young skaters avoid injuries from overtraining for the Games while they are still growing .
Asada won the Grand Prix Final women 's event on Saturday , upsetting two-time world champion Irina Slutskaya of Russia .
Since then , Japanese fans have lobbied the Japan Skating Federation to push for changes to the rules .
International Skating Union president Ottavio Cinquanta said Saturday that Asada will not be granted a special exemption allowing her to compete .
Pakistan 's Supreme Court has postponed a by-election in the district where former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had hoped to run for parliament .
A court in Lahore this week banned Mr. Sharif from standing in Thursday 's by-election because of convictions related to the 1999 military coup that removed him from office .
The government filed an appeal of the Lahore court 's decision Wednesday .
If Mr. Sharif is not able to secure a seat in parliament he will not be able to run for prime minister .
Mr. Sharif 's party , the Pakistan Muslim League-N , has refused to challenge the the court 's ruling , saying it will not deal with judges it believes are tied to Pakistan 's President , Pervez Musharraf .
In 1999 , Mr. Sharif allegedly ordered the hijacking of a commercial plane carrying Mr. Musharraf , who was then the army chief .
He has denied the allegations .
Sri Lanka observed a day of mourning Friday as the nation 's tsunami death toll continued to rise .
The national flag flew at half staff while private homes and cars carried white flags , a sign of mourning in South Asia .
Interfaith religious services offered prayers for the dead and a nationwide peal of bells .
Sri Lanka 's disaster management unit has confirmed more than 28,000 deaths since last Sunday 's tsunami .
Another 5,000 people remain missing and are presumed dead .
Relief supplies have begun arriving in Sri Lanka , but media reports say aid convoys are having difficulty reaching some of the hardest-hit areas .
The most recent opinion poll in Peru indicates that nationalist candidate Ollanta Humala is now in first place in the race for president .
The Apoyo polling company survey , which polled 2,000 citizens nationwide , says the former army officer leads pro-business former congresswoman Lourdes Flores , 32 to 28 percent .
If Flores is elected , she would be Peru 's first woman president .
She is viewed by international investors as the best choice for the economy .
Humala proposes higher corporate taxes and is campaigning to restrict foreign investment in Peru .
He is backed by Bolivian President Evo Morales and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez - both left-leaning leaders .
His popularity has concerned Washington because he opposes the eradication of Peru 's coca crop , the raw material for cocaine .
Peru 's elections will take place in next month .
The U.S. Senate is expected to vote on President Barack Obama 's nomination of federal Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the U.S. Supreme Court Thursday .
Senators Judd Gregg and Kit Bond became the latest Republicans on Wednesday to announce their intentions to vote for Sotomayor , increasing the number of Republican senators pledging to support her to at least nine .
With Democrats controlling the Senate with 60 votes , the 55-year-old Sotomayor is expected to easily become the first Hispanic justice and third woman to sit on the nation 's highest court .
During the last two days of debate on Sotomayor 's nomination , many Republicans charged the veteran judge would rule according her personal biases .
But Democrats described her as an experienced , mainstream moderate judge .
The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 13-6 last week , largely along party lines , to send Sotomayor 's nomination to the full Senate .
A RATTLESNAKE came home to his brood and said : " My children , gather about and receive your father 's last blessing , and see how a Christian dies . "
" What ails you , Father ? " asked the Small Snakes .
" I have been bitten by the editor of a partisan journal , " was the reply , accompanied by the ominous death-rattle .
According to a recent article I just read on nutrition , they said eating right does n't have to be complicated .
Nutritionists say there is a simple way to tell if you 're eating right .
Colors .
Fill your plates with bright colors .
Greens , reds , yellows .
In fact , I did that this morning .
I had an entire bowl of M&Ms .
It was delicious !
I never knew eating right could be so easy .
A U.S. federal appeals court has upheld the convictions of three men who were sentenced for the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa .
The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Monday that the men did receive a fair trial .
Four men were convicted in 2001 for the August 7 , 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Nairobi , Kenya , and Dar es Salaam , Tanzania .
The attacks killed 224 people - most of them Africans - and wounded thousands .
12 Americans also were killed .
One of the four defendants later withdrew his appeal .
The bombings are attributed to Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida terrorist network .
Bin Laden remains under indictment for the attacks .
Analysts say violence in Belgrade and the burning of the U.S. embassy there demonstrate the potential for ethnic conflict in the Balkans .
The protesters blamed the United States and the European Union for approving Kosovo 's unilateral declaration of independence from Serbia .
VOA 's Barry Wood has more .
The price of crude oil reached an all-time high , rising $ 4.89 to $ 104.41 a barrel .
Coffee prices fell 1.5 cents to close at $ 1.62 a pound .
Copper prices rose 16 cents to settle at $ 3.99 a pound .
And cocoa prices rose $ 28 to reach $ 2,778 per ton .
Bangladesh says it has agreed to send 1,600 troops to join a U.N. peacekeeping force in Sudan .
Foreign minister M. Morshed Khan said in Dhaka Sunday that a Bangladeshi officer will command the United Nations force in Sudan , which is expected to grow to about 10,000 troops .
The peacekeepers are to safeguard the peace agreement signed in January between the Khartoum government and the Sudan People 's Liberation Movement .
Bangladesh is one of the largest contributors of troops to U.N. missions .
Worldwide , almost 8,000 Bangladeshi soldiers are currently serving with 12 U.N. teams .
U.S. defense officials say the military is increasing the number of National Guard troops in the Gulf Coast to aid in hurricane emergency efforts .
National Guard troops poured into New Orleans Thursday as tensions rose and conditions worsened amid the tens of thousands of displaced residents in the flood-stricken city .
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense Paul McHale told a press briefing in Washington that the National Guard will be increasing forces over the next three days to augment and reinforce the strained New Orleans police force .
The military says it expects a total of up to 30,000 National Guard troops to be deployed in the Gulf Coast region for the relief efforts .
Coast Guard Rear Admiral Joel Whitehead says his force 's primary task continues to be search and rescue operations .
He says nearly 3,000 stranded residents have been rescued Thursday and that number probably has already increased .
The World Food Program ( WFP ) has begun sending food aid to Somalia by truck because of the threat posed by pirates off the Somali coast .
WFP officials say 14 trucks arrived in the town of Wajid on Sunday after a 1,200 kilometer trip from the Kenyan port of Mombasa .
They say another three trucks have been delayed , because of breakdowns .
A total of 500 metric tons of food is being delivered .
The U.N. food agency had not used road shipments to Somalia for five years because of the cost and danger .
But pirates have attacked numerous ships off the Somali coast , including a World Food Program vessel hijacked earlier this year .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 .
The Venezuelan government has given an opposition-aligned television station a midnight deadline to agree to carry speeches by President Hugo Chavez or face shutdown for a second time .
Venezuela 's telecommunications commission issued the deadline , saying Radio Caracas Television International , or RCTV , must follow regulations that would require it to interrupt regular programming to broadcast the speeches .
RCTV says it intends to be an international channel and has asked the commission to clarify its rules .
Last month , RCTV began airing its programs via cable and satellite after being forced off the air by President Chavez in May .
Mr. Chavez refused to renew RCTV 's license to broadcast on a public frequency for allegedly backing a failed coup against him in 2002 .
RCTV denies the accusations .
Other national private networks also opposed Mr. Chavez , but their criticism of the government is now softer and they have kept their licenses .
Pakistani authorities have arrested a Shi'ite Muslim man suspected of involvement in the murder of a senior pro-Taleban Sunni Muslim cleric in Karachi last year .
Local police say the suspect , identified as Nafees Khan , was nabbed in an overnight raid on a house in the city 's eastern district .
They say he is one of six gunmen wanted in connection with the killing .
Mufti Nizamuddin Shamzai , who had called for a " jihad " or holy war against the United States , was shot dead in May 2004 as he drove to an Islamic school .
His killing sparked violence by thousands of his supporters in Karachi .
Agriculture officials in Malawi say they are on the alert for bird flu after thousands of migratory birds began dying in the central part of the country .
A livestock and animal health official , Wilfred Lipita says they are cautioning local people not to eat the dead birds ( drongos , known locally as namzemze ) , since they may be carrying the deadly H5N1 form of the virus .
Blood and tissue samples have been sent to South Africa for testing to find out the cause of the bird deaths .
Earlier Friday health officials in Jakarta said local tests showed a 39-year-old Indonesian man has died from bird flu .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization , it would bring to 10 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the H5N1 strain of the virus .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 70 people in East Asia since 2003 .
A defense lawyer in Burma says six labor activists have been sentenced to up to 28 years in prison for organizing a seminar at a U.S. Embassy center in Rangoon earlier this year .
The lawyer , Aung Thein , said Saturday all six were found guilty of sedition .
The arrests were not related to ongoing demonstrations in Burma over increased fuel prices .
U.N. officials say reports indicate that more than 150 people have been arrested since citizens began protesting a sharp increase in fuel prices on August 19 .
Anti-government protests have been occurring almost daily in Burma in recent weeks .
Authorities fired guns into the air to break up a march by monks in the central town of Pakokku Wednesday .
Witnesses said the authorities then beat the protesters and their supporters .
On Thursday , several monks retaliated , holding a group of officials hostage for several hours and setting fire to their cars .
A Bosnian Serb general accused of involvement in the 1995 massacres of thousands of Muslims says he will prove his innocence before the United Nations war crimes tribunal .
General Milan Gvero pleaded not guilty Wednesday in The Hague to five counts of crimes against humanity , including murder , persecution and deportation .
He said he did not kill so much as a sparrow during the conflict of the early 1990s in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The charges involve the deaths of more than 7,000 people following the Serb capture of the Muslim enclaves of Srebrenica and Zepa .
Another suspect named in the same indictment , General Radivoje Miletic , postponed entering a plea for up to 30 days .
Both he and General Gvero turned themselves in to the court in the past week .
The third suspect named in the indictment , Zdravko Tolimir , is still at large .
The United Nations labor organization and the military-ruled junta in Burma have extended their agreement on dealing with forced labor complaints for another year .
Burma 's state-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported Friday that Burma 's Labor Minister Aung Kyi signed the extension to Burma 's supplementary understanding with the Geneva-based International Labor Organization this week .
Thursday 's signing coincided with ILO Executive Director Kari Tapiola 's visit to Burma 's administrative capital , Naypyitaw .
Aung Kyi praised the extension of the agreement saying it proves the government 's commitment to eradicate forced labor .
The agreement Burma first signed in 2007 aims to provide a complaint mechanism for victims of forced labor , based on existing law .
Human rights groups for years have accused Burma of using forced labor for state-run construction projects , including the building of the government complex at Naypyitaw .
A strong earthquake off the coast of Indonesia rocked Sumatra 's west coast Sunday and was felt as far away as Singapore .
No damage or casualties have been reported , but residents of high-rise apartments in Singapore , 600 kilometers northeast of the quake 's center , said they could feel their buildings swaying .
The U.S. Geological Survey measured the late-afternoon quake at magnitude 6.8 on the Richter scale .
It was centered in Indonesia 's Kepulauan Mentawai region .
More than five hours since the quake hit , there have been no reports of a tsunami .
A massive earthquake off Indonesia on December 26 triggered a tsunami across the Indian Ocean that killed more than 180,000 people .
Nearly 50,000 are still missing .
A powerful car bomb exploded along Beirut 's seafront killing one of the country 's most prominent politicians .
About 10 people were killed by the blast .
Reports in Lebanon say the target of the car bomb was a convoy carrying former Prime Minister Rafik al Hariri , who was killed in the attack .
The 60-year-old politician left office last October .
A number of the former prime minister 's bodyguards were reportedly killed or wounded .
Dozens of cars were on fire after a powerful car bomb exploded in Beirut 's hotel district .
The front of Beirut 's famous St. George Hotel was devastated in the blast , with several balconies blown off .
Passersbys could be seen pulling people on fire from their burning vehicles .
A large plume of smoke also floated over parts of the city .
Hundreds of ambulances and fire trucks rushed to the area of the explosion .
A top U.S. official said the United States and Tajikistan have finalized a deal on the transit of non-military cargo for Western operations in Afghanistan .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Richard Boucher confirmed the long-expected agreement during a visit to the Tajik capital , Dushanbe , on Tuesday .
The use of the new route to supply 70,000 NATO and U.S. troops in Afghanistan could begin with two months .
The Obama administration has been looking for new supply routes to Afghanistan after Kyrgyzstan announced earlier this year that it was evicting U.S. troops from the Manas airbase .
The main transit route through Pakistan has become increasingly dangerous as militants step up their attacks on supply trucks .
Kyrgyzstan voted to oust coalition forces from the airbase after receiving more than two billion dollars in aid from Russia .
The United States now has deals for the transit of non-lethal cargo with Uzbekistan and Russia .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has suggested that U.S. President George W. Bush could help secure the release of some long-held hostages in Colombia , including three Americans .
Mr. Chavez , a socialist who a year ago called Mr. Bush " the devil " during a United Nations speech , said Tuesday the United States can help get the hostages released .
He made the comment after meeting in Caracas with the families of three Americans held hostage by Marxist rebels in Colombia since 2003 .
U.S. State Department contractors Thomas Howe , Keith Stansell and Marc Gonsalvez were abducted after their plane was shot down during an anti-drug mission .
Colombia 's largest rebel group , known as FARC , wants hundreds of its prisoners released in exchange for the three Americans .
Two of the prisoners FARC wants freed are jailed in the United States .
U.S. President George Bush is urging America to commit itself to the restoration of Iraq , drawing parallels to the reconstruction of Europe after World War II .
At the same time , a former top Bush aide is making headlines with a very public denunciation of the administration 's Iraq policy .
We have details from VOA White House Correspondent Paula Wolfson .
Four of South Africa 's biggest supermarkets are pulling several products off the shelves after reports suggested they contain a potentially cancer-causing dye that has been banned worldwide .
The Sunday Times in South Africa launched an investigation several weeks ago on a number of products sold at the supermarkets .
Forensic tests discovered the presence of a dye , called Sudan Red that has been classified as a carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer .
The dye is used to color gasoline , waxes and cosmetics , as well as floor and shoe polish .
However , the newspaper 's investigation also found the dye in some food products , including chili powder .
The dye was behind a food scare last month in Britain where many products were removed from store shelves .
The Sunday Times says the new recall stretches as far as Zimbabwe , Mauritius and India .
The United Nations ' Middle East envoy says a U.N. team will verify Syria 's military withdrawal from Lebanon , and says upcoming Lebanese elections must be free and fair .
Terje Roed-Larsen spoke Wednesday in Beirut , after the latest round of meetings with Lebanese officials about the pullout .
Sunday , the envoy secured a promise from Syria 's president Bashar al-Assad that all Syrian troops would leave Lebanon by April 30 .
Analysts say about half of Syria 's 14,000-troop force has left the country in the past two weeks , and Reuters news agency says the pullout continued Wednesday .
Mr. Roed-Larsen has been using a U.N. resolution to leverage the pullout , ahead of Lebanese elections which must be completed before parliament 's mandate expires May 31 .
The envoy also said he has not yet scheduled talks on the disarming of Lebanon 's anti-Israel militant group Hezbollah , as called for in the resolution .
The final numbers are not in yet but , this year , US holiday sales have been disappointing .
Industry analysts say preliminary data show total retail sales declined compared to last year 's holiday season .
With the economy weak , many American consumers are spending less and that has prompted retailers to slash prices in a bid to survive .
The United Nations refugee agency has urged Sri Lanka to include tens of thousands of people displaced by the country 's long-running civil war in the government 's post-tsunami resettlement plans .
The agency 's assistant High Commissioner made the appeal in Colombo Thursday after touring the worst hit parts of Sri Lanka by last month 's disaster .
Mr. Morjane said there are many people who have been displaced by the conflict and again by the tsunami .
He said this is a good opportunity to simultaneously work for the resettlement of the civil war victims , most of whom are ethnic Tamils .
Some 80,000 people have been displaced by the 20-year conflict between the government and Tamil Tiger rebels .
They live in relief camps in the rebel-held areas in the island 's north and east .
Three men charged with trying to bomb the London subway and a bus face a British judge Monday .
Police Sunday charged Ibrahim Muktar Said and Ramzi Mohammed with attempted murder and possessing explosives in a failed attempt to set off bombs on July 21 .
Police filed the same charges Saturday against a third suspect , Yassin Hassan Omar .
He will also go before a judge today .
A fourth suspected bomber , Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussein , is in Italian custody , pending possible extradition to Britain .
Meanwhile , British media say authorities could charge three Muslim clerics in Britain with treason for allegedly condoning terrorism .
One well-known cleric , Omar Bakri Mohammed , has reportedly said he would not inform police if he knew Muslims were planning a bomb attack in Britain .
The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station .
An important air and naval base was constructed in 1940 - 41 .
In December 1941 , the island was captured by the Japanese and held until the end of World War II .
In subsequent years , Wake was developed as a stopover and refueling site for military and commercial aircraft transiting the Pacific .
Since 1974 , the island 's airstrip has been used by the US military , as well as for emergency landings .
Operations on the island were suspended and all personnel evacuated in 2006 with the approach of super typhoon IOKE ( category 5 ) , but resultant damage was comparatively minor .
A US Air Force repair team restored full capability to the airfield and facilities , which remains a vital strategic link in the Pacific region .
Afghan officials say two suicide bombers wearing police uniforms blew themselves up at a provincial police headquarters in eastern Afghanistan , killing at least 10 police officers and wounding at least 13 others .
Authorities say Saturday 's attack occurred in Paktika province .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the assault .
Reuters news service reports a Taliban spokesman says the attackers had undergone police training at the center .
In eastern Afghanistan , Afghan and coalition forces killed at least 15 insurgents in Nangarhar province .
Officials say the security force had come under fire as it approached a compound in search of a Taliban leader .
Separately , coalition forces say an improvised explosive blast killed one service member Saturday in eastern Afghanistan .
Officials did not reveal the soldier 's nationality or identity .
Iraqi and U.S. officials have confirmed that former Iraqi deputy prime minister Tariq Aziz was hospitalized last week .
But officials from both nations are quoted Saturday , as saying he is back in a U.S. detention facility in Iraq after doctors gave him a clean bill of health .
They say Aziz fell last week in prison , and he was taken to a hospital in Balad for a medical evaluation .
Doctors are said to have determined that Aziz is in good health .
Earlier Saturday , a lawyer representing Aziz told reporters the former deputy prime minister was hospitalized after temporarily losing consciousness .
He said Aziz was admitted to the hospital 's intensive care unit .
Aziz served as deputy prime minister during Saddam Hussein 's regime .
He is suspected of murder , but sources close to him say he has never formally been charged .
Turkish officials say a roadside bomb has killed at least eight soldiers in eastern Turkey .
Three soldiers were wounded in Monday 's attack .
Officials say the landmine went off as a military vehicle was traveling on a remote road in eastern Erzincan province .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Militants form the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) often attack security forces with remote-controlled explosives .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984 .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
The second day of the Olympic torch relay on the southern Chinese island of Hainan has begun .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says Monday 's relay started early in the city of Wuzhishan , where Sunday 's relay from the seaside resort of Sanya ended .
Thousands of supporters - many waving flags - cheered Sunday as the torch was carried through the streets of Sanya .
No protesters were evident during the run .
Demonstrations have taken place at several locations during the torch 's five-continent journey .
Most of the protests were over China 's crackdown against protests in Tibet .
The torch will travel now around mainland China , visiting provinces with large Tibetan populations in June , on its way to the opening of the Beijing Olympics on August 8 .
Bolivian President Carlos Mesa has announced measures designed to end weeks of protests in the South American nation .
The president announced late Thursday that a referendum on regional autonomy will be held on October 16 .
Mr. Mesa also called for the creation of an assembly to work on constitutional reform .
The announcement came after the Bolivian congress failed for the third time this week to reach a consensus on the issues .
The president also urged the nation to return to calm after two weeks of protests over Bolivia 's energy policies .
He called on the Roman Catholic Church to initiate dialogue to ease tensions .
Earlier Thursday , demonstrators massed in the streets in Bolivia 's capital , La Paz , demanding the nationalization of the energy sector .
Iran says it has started small-scale uranium enrichment - an initial step in the process of producing fuel for civilian nuclear reactors or atomic weapons .
Top Iranian nuclear official Javad Vaeidi told reporters in Tehran Tuesday that work has resumed at the Natanz nuclear plant .
He did not elaborate .
Earlier , diplomats at the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said Iranian technicians have fed uranium gas into centrifuge machines for enrichment .
IAEA inspectors are due to visit the plant today to assess its research activities .
Tehran had warned it would resume large-scale enrichment activities after the IAEA decided earlier this month to refer the Iranian nuclear issue to the U.N. Security Council .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , who met with President Bush in Washington Monday , says he hopes there will be no steps to " escalate the situation . "
Iran denies Western charges that it is trying to build atomic weapons .
Indian officials say at least 513 people have been killed in floods , landslides and building collapses triggered by torrential rains in western Maharashtra state .
Officials say rescue teams are searching for survivors buried under debris in several towns and low lying villages across the state .
They say the death toll could still rise .
More than than half of the deaths occurred in the state capital Bombay , also known as Mumbai , which has been paralyzed since Tuesday .
Aerial pictures showed parts of the city under waist-deep water .
The torrential rains eased Thursday , and rescue teams rushed emergency supplies to thousands of marooned villagers .
Pope Benedict has sent a telegram of condolences , saying he is praying for the hundreds of victims as well as those involved in the massive relief and rebuilding effort .
International Atomic Energy Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei has been formally re-appointed to the post for another four-year term .
Mr. ElBaradei , who has been the Director General of the U.N. agency since 1997 , was unanimously approved and immediately sworn-in Monday at an IAEA general conference in Vienna .
The agency 's board of governors had re-nominated him for the post in June after the United States dropped its opposition to a third term for Mr. ElBaradei .
The United States viewed the former Egyptian diplomat as being too soft on Iran 's nuclear activities that Washington says are a cover for an atomic weapons program .
Iran denies the charge .
Last week , the IAEA board adopted a resolution saying Iran could be referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions if Tehran fails to meet international concerns about its nuclear program .
Israeli Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has quit the government to protest Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
His resignation came just before the cabinet voted 17-5 Sunday to start the first stage of the pullout August 15 by dismantling three isolated Gaza settlements .
Israeli media quote aides to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon as saying the evacuation will begin on schedule , despite the resignation .
Mr. Netanyahu - a Sharon rival and former prime minister - has long opposed the withdrawal .
Reuters quotes his resignation letter as saying he " can not be a part of " what he called the irresponsible move to evacuate Gaza .
Meanwhile , gunfire directed at an Israeli car near the West Bank Jewish settlement of Ateret north of Jerusalem critically wounded a 10-year-old boy .
The head of the Arab League says Lebanon 's pro-Syrian president , Emile Lahoud , should serve out his term , despite some calls for his resignation .
Amr Moussa spoke Wednesday in Lebanon after meeting with Mr. Lahoud , whose term ends in November 2007 .
Lebanon has an anti-Syrian majority in parliament .
Moussa traveled to Lebanon Tuesday for his second visit in a week to mediate between rival factions .
He has met with Prime Minister Fuad Siniora , and is to hold meetings in Damascus Thursday .
Hezbollah and its pro-Syrian allies left the Cabinet in November , demanding a unity government and more power .
Supporters of Hezbollah have been camping out in downtown Beirut , calling for Mr. Siniora 's resignation .
In Washington Wednesday , President Bush expressed support for Mr. Siniora 's government , and called for Syria to " leave a democratic Lebanon alone . "
Disarmament talks with North Korea have resumed in Beijing after a nine month pause due to the isolated regime 's refusal to provide a complete list of its nuclear facilities .
A South Korean official says Thursday 's round of talks began with a brief photo session .
The United States , South Korea , China , Japan and Russia agreed to resume the discussions after Pyongyang handed over the list in late June .
U.S. nuclear envoy Christopher Hill says stress will be placed on verification both of the declaration list and the dismantling of nuclear facilities .
The five nations have promised North Korea crucial aid in return for cooperation .
Pyongyang recently said it might halt the dismantling process if aid is not delivered .
No matter how much the government fights it , organized crime just seems to get more organized every day .
The police pulled in a Mob kingpin recently and reminded him he had the right to make a phone call .
" Just fax the arrest report to my lawyer , " the mobster said calmly .
The United Nations refugee agency says at least 22 people died when a smuggler 's boat carrying Ethiopians and Somalis capsized off the coast of Yemen on Saturday .
It says another 28 passengers aboard the vessel are missing .
The boat had set sail from a village near the Somali town of Bossaso - a major departure point for African migrant smugglers crossing the Gulf of Aden .
The U.N. says the boat was carrying 125 people in all .
Most of them were Ethiopians , along with ten Somalis and five crew members .
Forty-three Ethiopians and two crew members have been detained by Yemeni authorities .
Thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to reach Yemen each year in a bid to escape their home countries ' poverty .
A lawmaker from Taiwan 's ruling coalition paid respects Monday at a Tokyo war shrine viewed by critics as a symbol of Japan 's past militarism .
Su Chin-chiang , chairman of the Taiwan Solidarity Union , a partner in the ruling coalition , visited Yasukuni Shrine , where 14 convicted Japanese war criminals are honored along with other war dead - including thousands from Taiwan .
Annual visits to the shrine by Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi have been a major cause of friction with China and South Korea .
Taiwan was colonized by Japan from 1895 to 1945 .
Mr. Su said he visited to pay respects to the war dead including those from Taiwan .
Ethiopia is urging the U.N. Security Council to deploy peacekeepers to neighboring Somalia , where a conflict has killed and displaced thousands of people since last year .
Ethiopian Foreign Minister Seyoum Mesfin told the U.N. General Assembly Monday that the U.N. Security Council has a responsibility to deploy a peacekeeping mission to Somalia as soon as possible , or at least , to provide resources to strengthen the current African Union mission .
The African Union has about 2,600 peacekeepers in Somalia .
Mesfin praised the deployment of troops from Uganda and Burundi to the A.U. forces and urged other nations to follow suit .
Ethiopian troops entered Somalia in 2006 , to help the country 's interim government evict an Islamist movement that had seized control of the capital and much of southern Somalia .
Since then , unrelenting violence has killed thousands of Somalis and displaced at least one million others .
Ivory Coast 's ambassador to the United Nations has called for an independent probe into alleged violations by French troops in street violence in Abidjan last month .
Speaking Tuesday , at U.N. headquarters in New York , Ambassador Philippe Djangone-Bi accused France of using " heavy weapons of war , " including tanks against " peaceful demonstrators . "
France has said troops killed 20 people during anti-French rioting last month , but insists that soldiers opened fire in self-defense .
Mr. Djangone-Bi says an independent group should also investigate a French military attack on Ivory Coast 's air force , moments ahead of the rioting .
France says the strike was in retaliation for Ivorian bombing raids on rebel bases , which killed nine French peacekeepers .
Police in Indian Kashmir say two Islamic militants and an Indian army officer have been killed in a gunbattle , and at least eight civilians wounded in a grenade attack .
Authorities said the gunbattle took place Saturday in the district of Pulwama when the Indian army raided a rebel hideout .
Separately , at least eight civilians were wounded when suspected militants threw two hand grenades in a busy commercial street in the summer capital of Srinagar .
Officials say the grenades were aimed at police , but missed .
India has been fighting a separatist movement in its predominantly Muslim area of divided Kashmir since 1989 .
Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the violence .
Hospital sources in southern Afghanistan says suspected Taleban insurgents on motorcycles have attacked a police checkpoint , killing five officers and wounding three .
A doctor at the hospital where the victims were taken says the ambush occurred Sunday on the outskirts of Kandahar city .
Meanwhile , in neighboring Helmand province , a Taleban militant , posing as a traveler looking for a place to spend the night , killed four policemen after eating dinner with them .
Local authorities say the assailant shot the officers after they had gone to sleep late Friday .
In the same province Saturday , Taleban insurgents torched four fuel trucks delivering supplies to coalition forces .
Local authorities say the drivers were not harmed .
Violence has escalated since the Taleban vowed to wage a spring offensive against foreign and Afghan government troops .
At least 125 people have died from water-borne diseases in the aftermath of record monsoon floods in western India .
Local health officials say the death toll stands at 89 in the country 's financial hub of Bombay , also known as Mumbai .
They say the rest have died in surrounding areas .
Officials suspect many of the deaths are due to leptospirosis , a disease caused by exposure to water contaminated with animal urine .
Other illnesses such as gastroenteritis , an inflammation of the digestive tract , have been reported .
The deaths from disease come after more than 1,000 people died from floods that inundated the region about two weeks ago .
More than 4,000 people have been hospitalized .
Iraqi soldiers and security guards stand at a checkpoint outside of the building which houses the offices of Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari 's Islamic Dawa Party
A car bomb has exploded near the offices of Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari 's party , killing at least one person .
Iraqi officials Friday said a guard was killed and at least one other person was hurt when the bomb detonated near the political offices of the Islamic Dawa party in Baghdad 's Mansour neighborhood .
They say the prime minister was not in the office , which used to be his residence , when the explosion occurred .
Meanwhile , U.S. military officials say coalition forces have detained 12 suspected terrorists and seized weapons during three separate operations in the northern city of Mosul .
Following President Bush inauguration for a second term Thursday he attended a series of lavish inaugural balls , including one special gala for American military personnel .
The president and First Lady Laura Bush went to nine balls , spending about 20 minutes at each party , greeting supporters .
The balls capped a day of events for President Bush that included lunch with members of Congress and a parade .
The president also signed his Cabinet nominations after his inaugural address .
The inaugural activities wrap up Friday with a prayer service at Washington 's National Cathedral .
A BOY was hunting for locusts .
He had caught a goodly number , when he saw a Scorpion , and mistaking him for a locust , reached out his hand to take him .
The Scorpion , showing his sting , said :
If you had but touched me , my friend , you would have lost me , and all your locusts too ! "
The foreign minister of Serbia and Montenegro , Vuk Draskovic , has called for the United Nations to guarantee the rights of all non-ethnic Albanians in Kosovo .
Mr. Draskovic told the U.N. General Assembly Thursday that there are no people in Europe whose rights are violated more than Kosovo Serbs .
He said the creation of another Albanian state in the Balkans would be a serious obstacle to stability in the area .
Kosovo is part of Serbia , but is administered by the United Nations .
The area 's ethnic Albanian majority wants independence .
U.N. officials have yet to announce a date for starting talks on the final status of Kosovo .
Earlier Thursday , Macedonian President Branko Crvenkovski told the General Assembly his country is dedicated to democratic and economic reform , with an eye on membership in NATO and the European Union .
Jamaican officials say 91 people were taken to the hospital after an American Airlines jetliner overshot the runway in the island 's capital of Kingston late Tuesday .
The Boeing 737 was carrying 154 people when it skidded off the runway at Norman Manley International Airport after landing during a heavy rainstorm .
The plane went through a fence and skidded over a road before coming to rest on a beach .
The injuries included broken bones .
American Airlines says all but two of those hospitalized have been released .
The flight originated from Washington 's Reagan National Airport , and stopped in Miami before heading to Kingston .
A spokesman for American Airlines says part of the plane 's landing gear collapsed , and one engine on the right side fell off the wing from the impact .
Authorities in Guyana have seized a cache of diamonds weighing about 4,000 carats from a company suspected of trafficking in smuggled gems .
Guyanese officials say the company , Explorers Trade and Commerce Limited , may be charged with violating international regulations governing the sale of diamonds .
Guyana 's mining commissioner , Bill Woolford , says the company failed to convince inspectors that a shipment of diamonds bound for Dubai originated in Guyana .
The inspectors went to the area in the South American country where the company says it mined the diamonds but found no evidence to support the claim .
Guyana is a signatory to the Kimberley Certification Process , a global scheme that requires countries to ensure diamond exports do not finance rebel groups in Africa and elsewhere .
Independent investigators appointed by the United Nations Human Rights Council say Iran is about to execute seven Arabs accused of receiving Western training to overthrow the Iranian government .
In a statement from Geneva , the investigators say that the seven are accused of serious crimes , but their trials " made a mockery of due process requirements . "
The experts say the convictions were reportedly based on confessions obtained under torture .
The U.N. experts say the trial was held in secret , and the accused were not allowed to consult with lawyers beforehand .
The seven were among 10 people arrested in June and accused of being trained by U.S. , British and Israeli officials in Iraq .
Three have already been executed .
The suspects , members of the ethnic Ahwazi Arab minority , were arrested in Iran 's Khuzestan province , which borders Iraq .
Iran says the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency has installed surveillance cameras at a nuclear facility in Natanz .
Iran 's Nuclear Agency announced Saturday that the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) can now fully supervise activities at the plant .
Meanwhile , Iran 's nuclear ambition is a major topic of discussion at an international security conference in Munich , Germany .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for greater transparency from Tehran on its disputed nuclear program .
She warned that Iran could risk falling deeper into international isolation .
Germany holds the rotating European Union presidency .
Russian President Vladimir Putin said he did not understand why Iran still has not responded positively to proposals from International Atomic Energy Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
The proposal calls for holding off on U.N. sanctions if Iran suspends its efforts to enrich uranium .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator , Ali Larijani , was in attendance Saturday after missing the meeting 's opening Friday due to illness .
The IAEA suspended nearly half of its 55 technical aid projects to Iran Friday in compliance with U.N. sanctions imposed in December on Tehran for refusing to halt its uranium enrichment activities .
The U.S. and other Western powers accuse Iran of trying to build an atomic weapon , but Iran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
The Guyanese economy exhibited moderate economic growth in recent years and is based largely on agriculture and extractive industries .
The economy is heavily dependent upon the export of six commodities - sugar , gold , bauxite , shrimp , timber , and rice - which represent nearly 60 % of the country 's GDP and are highly susceptible to adverse weather conditions and fluctuations in commodity prices .
Guyana 's entrance into the Caricom Single Market and Economy ( CSME ) in January 2006 has broadened the country 's export market , primarily in the raw materials sector .
Economic recovery since a 2005 flood-related contraction was buoyed by increases in remittances and foreign direct investment in the sugar and rice industries as well as the mining sector .
Chronic problems include a shortage of skilled labor and a deficient infrastructure .
The government is juggling a sizable external debt against the urgent need for expanded public investment .
In March 2007 , the Inter-American Development Bank , Guyana 's principal donor , canceled Guyana 's nearly $ 470 million debt , equivalent to nearly 48 % of GDP , which along with other Highly Indebted Poor Country ( HIPC ) debt forgiveness brought the debt-to-GDP ratio down from 183 % in 2006 to 120 % in 2007 .
Guyana became heavily indebted as a result of the inward-looking , state-led development model pursued in the 1970s and 1980s .
Growth slowed in 2009 - 10 as a result of the world recession .
The slowdown in the domestic economy and lower import costs helped to narrow the country 's current account deficit , despite generally lower earnings from exports .
Thousands of protesting students blocked the center of Rome on Tuesday as part of nationwide demonstrations against proposed budget cuts in the university system .
Some 50,000 students were stopped by a wall of police vans and lines of officers in riot gear from reaching the nation 's parliament where lawmakers are voting on a controversial university reform bill .
The Italian Students Union says hundreds of thousands of students around the country were rallying against the bill .
Protestors disrupted traffic in central Rome , as well as Milan , Turin , Naples , Venice , Palermo and Bari .
Brief scuffles erupted between students and riot police in the capital .
The protests are the latest in a wave of demonstrations against austerity measures being introduced by governments across Europe .
The economy of Saint Martin centers around tourism with 85 % of the labor force engaged in this sector .
Over one million visitors come to the island each year with most arriving through the Princess Juliana International Airport in Sint Maarten .
No significant agriculture and limited local fishing means that almost all food must be imported .
Energy resources and manufactured goods are also imported , primarily from Mexico and the United States .
Saint Martin is reported to have the highest per capita income in the Caribbean .
Fifty three Nobel prize winners are urging Armenia and Turkey to normalize relations and improve their human rights situations .
The letter was released Monday by the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity .
Wiesel , who established the foundation , is a famed Holocaust survivor and Nobel Peace Prize winner .
The Nobel laureates call on Armenia and Turkey to open their common border and increase diplomatic contacts , saying this would lead to deeper understanding between their peoples .
The laureates also ask Armenia to change what they call its authoritarian policies and allow free and fair elections .
They want Turkey to end racial and ethnic discrimination and scrap a law that criminalizes insulting Turkish identity .
Turkey has long denied responsibility for genocide in the deaths of more than one million Armenians during and after World War I .
Turkey says the people died during violence surrounding the collapse of the Ottoman Empire .
A new report says the global AIDS epidemic is leaving an epic number of children in sub-Saharan Africa orphaned or vulnerable .
The report by UNAIDS , the United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) and President Bush 's emergency AIDS program , was presented at the 16th International AIDS Conference in Toronto .
The report says 12 million of Africa 's 48 million orphans have lost one or both parents to AIDS .
A UNICEF spokeswoman , Mary Mahy , told VOA the problem is expected to worsen , adding that children who lose their parents face more obstacles to survival .
She said sub-Saharan Africa is the only world region where the number of orphaned children is increasing .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton also spoke at the conference , calling for improved efforts to fight stigma and discrimination against those infected with HIV-AIDS .
President Bush says Iraqis are grappling with difficult issues , but the prolonged political debate in Baghdad is a hopeful sign that Iraqis can settle future problems through discussion rather than violence .
Mr. Bush said he believes Iraqi lawmakers will produce a democratic constitution that respects the traditions of their country and guarantees the rights of all citizens .
In his weekly radio address to the nation Saturday , Mr. Bush asked Americans to be patient with the U.S. military mission in Iraq , despite its human cost .
He said U.S. and Iraqi forces ' joint efforts to suppress insurgents ' attacks in Iraq will require " more time , more sacrifice and continued resolve . "
Public-opinion surveys show deep divisions among Americans over the war in Iraq .
Outside Mr. Bush 's ranch in Crawford Texas , thousands of demonstrators , antiwar protesters as well as those who support the president , have been staging competing rallies .
South Korea says Pyongyang 's recent declaration it has harvested more material for producing nuclear weapons is a negotiating tactic .
The North Korean government said Wednesday it had extracted 8,000 spent fuel rods from a nuclear reactor .
South Korean Vice Unification Minister Rhee Bong-jo told reporters in Seoul Thursday , Pyongyang 's latest move was likely intended to gain an advantage in any future talks on its nuclear program .
He said North Korea should immediately return to six-party negotiations instead of taking what he called " unhelpful measures . "
It has been almost a year since the last round of talks .
The U.S. envoy on the North Korean Nuclear issue , Christopher Hill , is scheduled to arrive in Seoul Friday for meetings with South Korean officials on ways to end the impasse over the talks .
The U.S. Senate has passed a resolution condemning the Burmese military junta for its recent crackdown on ethnic minorities .
Earlier this month rights groups accused Burma 's military of violent attacks on ethnic Karen people , including rape , murder , torture and forced labor .
Reports say more than 10,000 Karen have fled their homes .
The Senate measure approved late Thursday also urges the U.N. Security Council to adopt a resolution calling for the immediate and unconditional release of Burmese democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi and all other prisoners of conscience in Burma .
Senator Mitch McConnell said in a statement that the resolution reflects the Senate 's grave concern about the deteriorating situation in Burma .
McConnell also urged a U.N. envoy now visiting Burma , Ibrahim Gambari , to cut his visit short if he is not allowed to visit Aung San Suu Kyi or meet with top Burmese leader , Than Shwe .
U.S. President-elect Barack Obama has named a Nobel laureate and advocate for scientific solutions to climate change as the country 's next energy secretary .
Stephen Chu is the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California , and he shared the 1997 Nobel Peace Prize in physics .
As energy secretary , Chu will be responsible for developing policy related to fighting global warming - an issue the physics professor has focused on in recent years .
Mr. Obama also selected Lisa Jackson to head the Environmental Protection Agency .
Jackson has served as commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection in the northeastern state of New Jersey .
She now works as chief of staff for the New Jersey governor .
Jackson would be the first African-American to head the EPA .
The president-elect will hold a news conference Thursday to formally announce former Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle as his pick for secretary of health and human services .
European observers said Monday that Sudan 's April election was marred by several problems , but still marked a step forward .
The observer team 's final report on the election said flawed vote counting , lack of transparency in announcing the winner and instances of violence challenged the credibility of the April election .
The report said Sudanese officials declared the country 's President Omar Hassan al-Bashir the winner before 50 percent of the votes were counted .
Mr. Bashir is the only sitting head of state wanted for war crimes by the International Criminal Court .
He denies the charges and rejects the court 's authority .
The report was based on information from 147 observers deployed across the African country in April .
The World Health Organization says the outbreak of deadly Marburg fever in northern Angola is not yet over .
According to the U.N. health agency , the deadly hemorrhagic fever has so far killed 235 people - all of whom are believed to have contracted the disease in Uige province .
WHO spokesman Dave Daigle says health experts are still finding cases , indicating the transmission cycle has not been broken .
He also says mobile U.N. teams working to contain the outbreak are meeting stiff resistance from some Angolans , who fear the health experts are spreading the Ebola-like virus .
Marburg is transmitted through contact with bodily fluids .
Experts fear that contact with victims ' bodies during burial rites may be one way the virus is spreading .
The islands were part of the UK 's Jamaican colony until 1962 , when they assumed the status of a separate crown colony upon Jamaica 's independence .
The governor of The Bahamas oversaw affairs from 1965 to 1973 .
With Bahamian independence , the islands received a separate governor in 1973 .
Although independence was agreed upon for 1982 , the policy was reversed and the islands remain a British overseas territory .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has come to the defense of Brazil 's embattled President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , saying conservative opponents are using a corruption scandal to unfairly attack the Brazilian leader .
During a brief visit to Brazil Friday , Mr. Chavez called Mr. da Silva " an honest man . "
The Brazilian president went on national television Friday and publicly apologized for the corruption scandal plaguing his administration , while denying involvement .
President da Silva was a staunch supporter of Mr. Chavez during Venezuela 's strikes in 2003 and the recall attempt in 2004 .
Venezuela and Brazil are exploring avenues for greater economic integration , including a proposed $ 2.5 billion oil refinery in Brazil that would create 10,000 jobs and process 250,000 barrels of oil a day .
The Commonwealth has called for urgent talks to discuss the state of emergency in Pakistan .
Secretary-General Don McKinnon Tuesday scheduled what he called an extraordinary meeting of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group ( CMAG ) set for November 12 in London .
The foreign ministers of Britain , Canada , Lesotho , Malaysia , Malta , Papua New Guinea , St. Lucia , Sri Lanka , and Tanzania making up the CMAG will meet next week to discuss the situation in Pakistan .
The Commonwealth has warned Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf in the past that continuing as both president and army chief is incompatible with democracy .
The 53-nation group expelled Pakistan for five years after the 1999 coup that brought General Musharraf to power .
The headless body of one of 16 kidnapped Pakistani soldiers was found Tuesday in a tribal area near the country 's border with Afghanistan .
Pakistani officials say pro-Taleban militants beheaded the soldier and threatened to kill more unless authorities release 10 of their men .
Gunmen abducted the soldiers on August 9 in South Waziristan , a frontier tribal region and stronghold of Taleban and al-Qaida sympathizers .
Residents found the body in the town of Jandola .
A note found nearby warned that other soldiers would be killed if the demands are not met .
Violence has escalated since pro-Taleban militants abandoned a 10-month peace deal with Pakistani authorities in neighboring North Waziristan in July .
Militants also vowed stepped up attacks following a government raid on the radical Red Mosque in Islamabad last month during which some 70 extremists were killed , including a top cleric .
Thirty-four Cuban refugees have been sent back to Cuba from the United States , after being held for a week on a Coast Guard ship .
The refugees were sent home Friday .
They had been kept on a Coast Guard cutter offshore since November 5 , when their eight-meter speedboat capsized in rough seas offshore .
Two women died in the accident .
The boat captain was questioned but released without charges .
The 34 refugees returned to Cuba along with 45 others seized in separate operations .
The United States generally allows Cuban migrants who make it to U.S. shores to stay , but sends them home if they are intercepted at sea .
Lebanon 's prime minister-designate has postponed offering his resignation to the president , saying he wants to consult with his political allies before giving up hope of forming a national unity government .
Omar Karami said Wednesday , he will meet with his pro-Syrian allies in the next two days .
Mr. Karami said Tuesday he would resign for a second time .
He initially quit in February , after anti-Syrian protests erupted following the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Mr. Karami was reappointed earlier this month .
His latest announcement follows a Syrian pledge Tuesday to the United Nations to withdraw all of its troops from Lebanon before the Lebanese elections in May .
Syria also protested a recent U.N. report on Mr. Hariri 's assassination that was critical of Damascus .
The government in Damascus called the report " far from objective . "
French President Jacques Chirac has announced funding to support an industrial innovation program .
More than $ 2 billion will be available for investment in six projects aimed at creating high-tech jobs in France .
Among them is a joint venture between French and German companies to develop an internet search engine , and the development of a modern train system .
Mr. Chirac said the project will focus on essential technological challenges for the future of France .
Other projects include creating new technology to deliver high definition television over cell phones , a diesel-electric automobile , energy-saving ways to heat and light homes and a project to make chemicals from agricultural products .
Iraqi officials say two car bombs have killed at least eight people at crowded markets .
The first bomb exploded in a market in the northern city of Mosul , killing five people and wounding more than 20 others .
Authorities believe the blast was aimed at a police patrol .
Hours later , a car bomb killed three and wounded 25 at a market south of Baghdad .
That market was also attacked Sunday .
Separately , military officials say an American Marine was killed during combat operations in al-Anbar province .
Meanwhile , a previously unknown Shi'ite Muslim insurgent group says it is involved in attacks on American , British and other coalition forces across Iraq .
The message from the " Muslim Resistance in Iraq " group claims its members are pledged not to target Iraqi soldiers and civilians .
A videotaped statement from the insurgents was broadcast Sunday by a Lebanese television station .
Officials in Ivory Coast say pro-government militias have promised to begin disarming on June 16 after missing a Thursday deadline to lay down their weapons .
Militia leaders said they needed more time to inform their members about the process .
The disarmament of pro-government militias is to be the first step of a broader disarmament that includes rebel and government troops .
Ivory Coast has yet to set a date for the rebels and soldiers to give up their guns .
Both sides have missed disarmament dates in the past , blaming each other for the delays .
Disarmament is key to a United Nations-backed peace plan that calls for national elections in October .
The west African country has been divided into rebel and government-held areas since a 2002 civil war .
The head of Iran 's nuclear agency says his country will resume enrichment activities , but not during nuclear talks with the international community .
Gholamreza Aghazadeh told reporters in Tehran Saturday that he has no doubt Iran will carry out nuclear fuel production some day .
He added that the government has approved funds to build a 360-megawatt nuclear power plant .
But he said it will take seven years to complete the facility in the town of Darkhoein in southern Khuzestan province .
Meanwhile , in Vienna , the U.S. ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency , Gregory Schulte , told the Associated Press the announcement by Tehran underscores that Iran is today 's greatest threat to efforts aimed at stopping the spread of nuclear weapons .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly pursuing nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
China plans its second manned space launch later this week , with reports suggesting a Wednesday or Thursday blast-off from Inner Mongolia .
Chinese space agency officials have not confirmed a date , but short-listed astronauts for the two-man mission have already arrived at the Gobi desert launch site .
China launched its first manned space flight two years ago , in October 2003 .
The secretive space program is closely affiliated with the military and is considered a source of national prestige .
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says the building targeted in a U.S. raid early Thursday was a liaison office that was in the process of becoming an Iranian consulate .
Zebari said Friday that the office had operated in Irbil , in Iraq 's Kurdish-controlled north , for a decade .
Coalition troops raided the building in a pre-dawn operation Thursday .
The U.S. military says six people were detained for alleged ties to activities targeting troops in Iraq .
It says one of the six has been released .
The operation drew protests from the regional Kurdish government and Iran .
Russia today said the raid was unacceptable .
The United States accuses Iran of providing material support to the insurgents in Iraq , and allowing terrorists to use Iranian territory to cross in and out of Iraq .
Renewed protests have erupted in Bolivia 's capital as demonstrators massed in the streets and set up roadblocks to press for the nationalization of the energy sector .
As the protesters crowded the streets of La Paz Thursday , President Carlos Mesa 's government rejected suggestions that international mediation could be needed to resolve the crisis .
The remark came one day after the U.S. State Department said Bolivia will be discussed at a meeting in Florida next week of the Organization of American States General Assembly .
Bolivia 's Congress recently passed a bill to increase taxes on foreign oil companies , but opponents say it does not go far enough .
The measure calls for the firms to pay a 32 percent tax on production , in addition to an 18 percent royalty tax they already pay .
German prosecutors say Polish authorities have arrested a suspected Israeli intelligence agent wanted in connection with the assassination of a Palestinian militant in Dubai .
A spokesman for the German federal prosecutor 's office said Saturday that the suspect , Uri Brodsky , was arrested in early June upon his arrival in Poland .
He was accused of obtaining an illegal German passport .
Police in Dubai have said a team of assassins used forged passports to conduct an operation in January to kill a senior Hamas commander , Mahmoud al-Mabhou .
Dubai has accused Israel 's Mossad spy agency of being behind the killing .
Israel has said there is no proof to back that claim .
A United nations-backed report says many Afghan refugees who return home have limited access to jobs , health care , education , water and housing .
The Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission and the U.N. refugee agency recently surveyed 11,000 Afghans , including refugees and internally displaced persons .
More than half of those interviewed said they do not have access to safe drinking water , and one-third said their children are not enrolled in school .
Many parents said there were schools nearby , but they did not send their children because of security concerns or because the children work .
About 85 percent of those surveyed say their top priorities include finding employment or gaining access to clean water , schools or medical clinics .
Only three to four percent cited security or justice as a top concern .
Nigeria 's Securities and Exchange Commission has fired the head of the country 's stock exchange after allegations of financial mismanagement and poor oversight .
A spokesman for the regulator said Director-General Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke was removed late Wednesday along with the exchange president and members of its council .
The SEC says the move was aimed at restoring confidence because of worries of inadequate oversight of the exchange , governance challenges and ongoing litigation .
Okereke-Onyiuke was scheduled to retire in November .
Emmanuel Ikazoboh , a former executive at financial consulting firm Deloitte in West and Central Africa , has been named the interim administrator of the stock exchange .
A mild earthquake has shaken northern Pakistan , without any reports of serious damage or casualties .
Police say the tremor rocked office buildings in the capital , Islamabad , and people ran out of their homes in Muzaffarabad and Balakot - the two towns that were badly damaged in the October 8th quake that killed more than 73,000 people .
Pakistani Meteorological Department officials said the intensity was 5.2 , and the epicenter of the tremor was in the Hazara area of North West Frontier Province , about 100 kilometers northwest of Islamabad .
The last such aftershock occurred on December 21 and officials are expecting more aftershocks for at least another two months .
Officials in Pakistan say the government will begin monitoring major websites , including Google and Yahoo , for material it deems offensive to Islam .
The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority also said it will block 17 lesser-known sites for containing blasphemous content , in response to a court order .
Among the websites that will be monitored are Amazon , MSN , Hotmail and Bing .
Friday 's move follows the temporary blocking last month of the social networking site Facebook , after someone using the site sought to collect images of the Prophet Muhammad .
The Pakistani government also temporarily banned the video website YouTube for distributing allegedly sacrilegious or profane material .
In recent years , Western newspapers ' publication of caricatures of the prophet have triggered violent protests in majority-Muslim countries including Pakistan .
Islam forbids any depiction of the prophet .
Canada 's next prime minister , Stephen Harper , is a trained economist who united two right-of-center political factions under a Conservative Party banner three years ago .
Born in Toronto in 1959 , Mr. Harper began working as a computer analyst for an oil company in western Alberta province when he was 18 .
He was first elected to Parliament in 1993 , but left four years later to head a conservative lobbying group .
He was re-elected in 2002 , but lost the 2004 elections after Prime Minister Paul Martin painted him as a hard-line , right-wing opponent of same-sex marriage and abortion rights .
Mr. Harper is a married father of two .
He describes himself as a cautious politician who believes " it is better to light one candle than to promise a million lightbulbs . "
An avid ice hockey fan , he has been writing a book on the history of the sport .
Ethiopian authorities have released 360 people held during a government crackdown on election-related protests .
That announcement was made Thursday in a police statement aired on a government-run broadcast .
The opposition says more than 3,000 people were arrested during last week 's protests that turned deadly when police opened fire on students , killing at least 36 people .
Those demonstrations - banned by the government - erupted after electoral officials said preliminary results showed the ruling party had won parliamentary polls held on May 15 .
But opposition groups have also claimed victory , while at the same time , saying the elections were marred by fraud .
Final results are due July 8 .
On Wednesday , Britain suspended $ 35 million in aid for Ethiopia as a result of the violence .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has asked his cabinet to approve a range of measures meant to ensure next month 's Palestinian elections are conducted in a free and fair atmosphere .
The arrangements include granting Palestinians freedom of movement , and allowing candidates to campaign in disputed East Jerusalem .
Israeli troops would also pull out of Palestinian population centers immediately before the vote .
Israel has long limited Palestinian activity in East Jerusalem , which it captured and annexed after the 1967 Mideast War .
Both sides want Jerusalem for a capital .
At today 's cabinet meeting , Mr. Sharon told the ministers it was important to show " the whole world that Israel allowed free , fair and efficient elections . "
The January 9 poll comes in the wake of the death on November 11 of longtime Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
Afghanistan 's Defense Ministry says its troops have killed four Taliban near Musa Qala , in the first fighting since the militants were ousted from the southern town .
In a statement Sunday the ministry said Afghan national forces engaged with the enemy as they moved to expand the area under government control .
Afghan and NATO forces regained control of the area last week , in a battle that left hundreds of Taliban insurgents killed , wounded or detained .
Hundreds of troops continued to patrol the streets on Saturday .
British military officials also said Saturday two rockets were fired into Musa Qala from the outskirts where some Taliban had escaped .
No injuries were reported .
The Taliban had seized Musa Qala , in Helmand province about eight months ago .
Afghanistan 's President Hamid Karzai has fired at least 24 top police officials days after anti-U.S. riots in Kabul .
Officials said Saturday the shake-up includes Kabul 's police chief , whose forces failed to prevent rioters from looting stores and setting fire to offices and cars in the capital .
The riots erupted Monday after a U.S. military truck accidentally crashed into civilian vehicles .
U.S. military spokesman Tom Collins said an initial probe shows that mobs threw stones and fired shots after the accident , and that U.S. troops fired back in self-defense .
Afghan police say at least 20 people were killed and 160 wounded in the accident and subsequent unrest .
White House spokesman Tony Snow said President Bush spoke to Mr. Karzai and pledged an investigation .
Israeli warplanes continued to pound targets in the Gaza Strip on Monday as Israel 's Defense Minister declared an " all out war " against the Islamic militant group Hamas and its Gaza government .
Palestinian officials say Israeli airstrikes have killed more than 300 people since Saturday , some of them civilians .
Israel says rockets launched from Gaza against Israeli towns provoked the conflict .
But some say the response has been disproportionate and may be an attempt by Israel to restore its image .
A spill of up to 150,000 liters of diesel oil from a broken pipeline in northern China has reached the Yellow River , the drinking water source for millions of people .
State media say the spill in an upstream tributary reached the massive river Monday .
Thousands of people in northern China have been told to stop using water from the Yellow River .
The diesel oil spilled last Wednesday from a ruptured pipeline into the Wei River .
That pipeline in Shaanxi province is owned by China National Petroleum Corporation .
China 's official news agency , Xinhua , says the company immediately closed the pipeline when the leak was discovered , but not before about 150,000 liters had spilled out .
Hundreds of workers dug diversion channels and built floating dams on Sunday , in what turned out to be a failed attempt to keep the leak from reaching the Yellow River .
At least 60 people are believed to have drowned when a boat crammed with passengers and commercial goods capsized on a river in western Democratic Republic of Congo .
Government officials say the vessel was traveling on the Kasai River when it began taking on water late Sunday night .
They say 40 out of nearly 200 people on board managed to swim to shore .
The French news agency quotes a local official as saying as many as 150 people may have died .
Rescue teams are searching for missing passengers .
The accident occurred near the Congolese town of Tshikapa , southeast of the capital , Kinshasa .
The impoverished country of Afghanistan is pledging $ 100,000 to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina in the United States .
U.S. Ambassador Ronald Neumann thanked the Afghan people for the pledge on Sunday .
He said the money " bears testimony to the strength of the ties between our two peoples . "
U.S. forces toppled the Taliban regime in Afghanistan after the 2001 al-Qaida led terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington .
About 20,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan , which relies heavily on the U.S. for financial aid .
The Palestinian Islamic militant group Hamas has banned public prayers in the Gaza Strip after the rival Fatah movement used the services to protest Hamas ' rule in Gaza .
In a statement Tuesday , the Hamas-led government in Gaza said it decided to ban all gatherings held under the guise of Friday prayers .
Hamas accused Fatah of using the past weeks ' outdoor services to incite chaos , trouble and terrorist acts .
Fatah , headed by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , organized the outdoor prayer sessions , accusing Hamas of driving Fatah members out of Gaza 's mosques .
During last week 's Friday prayers , Hamas forces fired shots into the air and beat and arrested Fatah protesters .
Hamas seized control of Gaza in June after factional fighting with Fatah that killed more than 100 people .
President Abbas dismissed the Hamas-led government and named another administration , based in the West Bank .
Five bomb attacks in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk have killed at least 17 people .
Authorities say many of Tuesday 's nearly simultaneous explosions were aimed at police , and several policemen are among the dead .
The bombings came a day after the terror group al-Qaida in Iraq named Abu Hamza al-Muhajer as its new leader , following the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in a U.S. airstrike .
In an Internet posting Tuesday , the new insurgent leader vowed to continue attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq and their Iraqi allies .
The Iraqi government has announced plans for a security crackdown Wednesday in Baghdad that will involve at least 40,000 Iraqi and U.S. troops .
The plan will include a curfew .
Also Tuesday , the chief judge in the trial of former President Saddam Hussein said he had heard the last defense witnesses .
Former President Jimmy Carter says he will head an independent observer mission for the upcoming Palestinian elections , but he says he will not participate in the Iraqi polls set for January 30 .
In an interview with Reuters news agency , Mr. Carter - who has monitored more than 50 elections around the world - said the Iraqi situation is " a debacle - a very costly one . "
He said there is not enough security in that country to have a fair and safe election .
The former U.S. president also said Palestinian leaders have invited him to monitor January ninth polls called to replace the late Yasser Arafat .
He said he is optimistic about those polls , and will utilize 80 to 90 observers from his Atlanta-based Carter Center .
President Carter helped broker the historic 1979 peace treaty between Egypt and Israel .
A Somali teenager accused of leading last month 's hijacking of an American cargo ship has pleaded not guilty to piracy charges .
Abdiwali Abdiqadir Muse entered his plea Thursday during a short appearance in U.S. District Court in New York .
Earlier this week , Muse was indicted on 10 counts that include piracy , hostage-taking , kidnapping , and possession of a machine gun while seizing a ship by force .
Prosecutors said Muse led the band of pirates that briefly hijacked the U.S.-flagged Maersk Alabama near Somalia last month .
The U.S. Navy took him into custody April 12 during operations that freed captain Richard Phillips and killed the three other pirates .
U.S. authorities believe Muse to be at least 18 , old enough to be tried as an adult , though his parents have said he is younger .
He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted .
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the trunk .
A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman or hound .
He replied , " I do it advisedly ; for it would never do to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be using them . "
Health officials in Indonesia say tests show that a girl who died on Thursday was infected with bird flu .
The World Health Organization has yet to confirm the cause of death .
Authorities say the girl lived in a city on the outskirts of Jakarta .
Meanwhile , WHO officials say 54 people under quarantine in Indonesia are receiving daily medical exams and the anti-viral drug Tamiflu as a precaution .
All came in contact with seven family members who died from the virus last month .
In Europe , the European Union is expanding an import ban on Romanian poultry because of spreading instances of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The EU restrictions now apply to the entire country .
They previously applied only to parts of Romania .
Italy says it will extradite a key suspect in the failed July 21 London bombings to Britain within 35 days so Italian authorities have time to complete their investigations .
An Italian judge made the announcement Wednesday in Rome following an extradition hearing for suspect Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussain .
The decision came after an Italian prosecutor asked for a delay in any decision until authorities properly analyze materials the suspect allegedly carried on the day of the failed bombings .
British authorities have charged that Mr. Issac , a British citizen of Ethiopian descent , fled to Italy after he and three other men allegedly tried to set off bombs on three London subway trains and a bus .
The other suspects are in British custody .
The failed attacks came two weeks after the July seventh London bombings , which killed 56 people , including four suicide bombers .
India has test-fired a short-range surface-to-air missile , part of a series of recent tests of different missile types .
Sunday 's launch was conducted at the country 's main testing center at Chandipur in the eastern coastal state of Orissa .
The solid fuel-propelled missile , known as Trishul , is designed to target aircraft and sea-skimming missiles .
It has a range of nine kilometers .
India also tested the system in early December .
Officials say the Trishul is the Indian version of the anti-missile Patriot system built by U.S.-based Raytheon .
India is developing the Trishul for use by its army , navy and air force .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says a fire in a high-rise apartment building in Shanghai has killed at least 42 people .
Earlier , local officials said more than 90 others were injured .
Xinhua said the 20-story building was being renovated when it caught fire Monday afternoon .
It said the structure is a residential building for teachers , many of whom are retired .
The article said the cause of the fire is not known , but a witness said he saw the blaze spread from a worker 's scaffold to the rest of the building .
A U.S. official says Vice President Dick Cheney and Saudi King Abdullah have discussed how to deal with the rise in oil prices .
The two men held talks Friday after Cheney arrived in Saudi Arabia from a visit to Afghanistan .
The official says Cheney and the king discussed how to stabilize the markets now , and what is needed for the future .
President Bush urged Saudi Arabia and other members of OPEC during a trip in January to boost production .
Oil has risen in recent weeks to more than $ 100 a barrel .
The official says Cheney and King Abdullah discussed various issues during their meeting , including the Israeli-Palestinian stalemate , other Middle East concerns , Pakistan , and bilateral issues .
China plans to relocate more than 100,000 people this year to make way for the Three Gorges Dam .
State media report that this year 's relocations will bring to nearly one million the number of people that have been resettled due to the controversial project .
By the time the dam is completed in 2009 , 1.1 million people , mostly residents of the Chongqing area , will have been moved .
The Three Gorges Dam hydroelectric project is considered the world 's largest .
Chinese leaders say the dam will control chronic flooding on the Yangtze River and will generate much-needed electricity to drive economic growth in China 's interior .
The project 's critics say a series of smaller dams could have produced the same effect at a lower cost .
World oil prices hit yet another record high in Monday 's trading .
The cost of a barrel of oil for future delivery rose as high as $ 103.95 a barrel in New York .
Oil is priced in dollars , so the falling value of the dollar contributes to the rising price of oil .
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are scheduled to discuss oil prices and supplies at a meeting Wednesday in Vienna , Austria .
The cartel controls about 40 percent of the world 's oil supply .
Peru has canceled planned talks with Chile at an Asia-Pacific summit and is leaving the meeting a day early over an espionage dispute .
Peru 's foreign minister , Jose Garcia Belaunde , says President Alan Garcia is leaving the meeting in Singapore , following the recall of Peru 's envoy to Chile over charges a Peruvian military officer has been spying for Chile .
Mr. Garcia and his Chilean counterpart Michelle Bachelet had been scheduled to meet at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum .
Peruvian officials say they are returning to Lima to investigate the charges against the air force officer who was arrested several days ago .
The neighboring South American countries maintain close trade ties , but have a long-standing maritime border dispute .
India says it is searching for the best technology on the market to set up an early warning system to prevent disasters like the recent Asian tsunamis .
Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters in New Delhi the decision was made at a meeting Sunday between leaders of India 's major political parties and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
Mr. Mukherjee said the participants also agreed to set up a disaster management authority that would be responsible for finding the best technology available .
Currently , no such system exists for the Indian Ocean where a strong earthquake and tsunami off Indonesia 's coast on December 26 killed more than 153,000 people .
Last Thursday , leaders of the affected nations agreed to set up a regional tsunami warning system at an emergency meeting in Jakarta .
The NATO-led force in Afghanistan says coalition forces killed at least 30 militants Saturday while fighting off an attack on a combat outpost .
The attack occurred early in the morning in the Bermal district of Paktika province , bordering Pakistan .
NATO says militants surrounded the outpost , firing from all directions with rocket-propelled grenades , small arms and mortars .
Coalition officials said the embattled troops on the ground called in air support to help repel the attack .
At least five coalition service members were wounded during the firefight , but NATO says none were killed .
Switzerland has scored a surprise win over the Czech Republic , while Finland blanked host country Italy in the men 's Olympic ice hockey tournament in Turin .
David Aebischer of the Colorado Avalanche made 40 saves for the Swiss as they stunned the 1998 Olympic champion Czech team , 3-2 .
The Swiss team has only two National ice Hockey League players in its lineup , while the Czech Republic boasts such stars as Jaromir Jagr , Tomas Vokun , Marek Zidlicky and Dominik Hasek .
Earlier , Finland blanked host country Italy , 6-0 , with Anaheim Mighty Ducks star Teemu Selanne scoring twice for the Finns .
Other games Thursday have Sweden taking on Russia and Slovakia facing Latvia .
Reigning champion Canada plays Germany and the U.S. team plays Kazakhstan .
Rescuers in Pakistan have pulled a five-year old girl to safety after she was trapped in the quake rubble for 100 hours .
Zarabe Shah was trapped under the stairwell in the rubble of her quake-hit home in Muzaffarabad .
On Wednesday , Russian rescuers pulled the dazed girl from the debris .
She asked for a glass of water , but said she was n't hungry .
A day earlier , neighbors had recovered the bodies of her father and two of her sisters from the debris .
Her mother and another two sisters survived .
The mother had given Zarabe up for dead and had left for the city of Abbotabad , a town north of Islamabad that suffered far less damage than Muzaffarabad .
Her uncle held her tight as she told reporters how the stairwell shielded her from the debris above .
The Turkish army says it has bombed a Kurdish rebel target in northern Iraq .
The military said on its Web site Sunday was " successful , " but did not provide any data on casualties .
Turkey has stepped up military operations against PKK rebels this year both in Turkey and across the border northern Iraq , where thousands of rebels are based .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984 .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey , the United States and the European Union classify the PKK , formally known as the Kurdistan Workers ' Party , as a terrorist group .
World oil prices have surged to over $ 70 a barrel as investors worry about the impact of Hurricane Katrina on oil production in the United States .
Prices rose past $ 70.50 for a while Wednesday in Singapore , one day after a record of $ 70.85 a barrel was reached in New York trading before falling back .
The powerful hurricane tore through an area that produces about 25 percent of the U.S. crude oil output , shutting down key refineries and some oil drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico .
Even before the hurricane , world oil prices were at high levels as strong demand from China , India and the United States strained the ability of oil producers and refiners to get products to market .
Thousands of Palestinians celebrated Israel 's impending withdrawal from the Gaza Strip at a rally Friday along a tiny stretch of waterfront in Gaza .
Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas addressed the joyous crowd , telling them " today Gaza , tomorrow Jerusalem . "
He was referring to Palestinian dreams of having Jerusalem as the capital of an independent Palestinian state .
Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon told an Israeli newspaper , Yediot Ahronot that his government could eventually remove more settlements in the West Bank than originally planned .
In the interview , Mr. Sharon was asked whether Israel would pull out of several small West Bank settlements in addition to the four already slated for withdrawal .
He responded that not everything would remain and said the issue would be raised during future negotiations with the Palestinians .
Israel is to begin a full withdrawal Wednesday from its 21 settlements in Gaza .
Ethiopia has opened a treason trial against a group of jailed opposition leaders , with prosecutors accusing them of trying to overthrow the government .
The prosecutors laid out their case Tuesday against dozens of opposition figures as well as journalists and civil society activists , all on trial for their alleged role in violence that erupted last year during protests over disputed elections .
Prosecutors say the defendants conspired with an Eritrean-backed rebel group to foment a coup .
Amnesty International says the defendants are prisoners of conscience who have not used or advocated violence .
It calls the charges against them , which include outrages against the Constitution , armed conspiracy , and genocide , absurd .
Five VOA journalists were among those charged with treason in absentia .
But the charges against them have since been dropped .
Investigators in Pakistan examined the remains of a suicide bomber who targeted police in Lahore Thursday , killing at least 22 people .
A spokesman for the interior ministry said the bomber 's head and limbs found at the blast site are being tested to determine his identity .
No group has claimed responsibility but government officials blamed al-Qaida-linked militants operating in Pakistan 's tribal region .
The attacker walked up to a group of policeman gathered outside the High Court in Lahore ahead of a planned rally and set off explosives .
Most of the dead were policemen and scores of other people at the scene were wounded .
The attack came exactly two weeks after the assassination of opposition leader and former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .
Hundreds of people have been killed in a wave of suicide bombings in Pakistan over the past year .
Pakistani officials say a suspected U.S. missile strike has killed at least four militants in the country 's northwestern tribal region .
Officials say a pilotless drone aircraft fired missiles at a moving vehicle in the Marsi Khel area of North Waziristan on Monday .
Elsewhere in the tribal region , officials say Pakistani troops used mortars and artillery to target militant hide-outs near Khar , the main town in Bajaur .
They say at least 18 militants were killed .
In Orakzai tribal agency , local officials say 11 militants and two soldiers were killed during clashes Monday .
The African Union has endorsed a report that says political violence , arbitrary arrests and police torture occurred in the run-up to the 2002 Zimbabwe presidential elections .
The report was compiled by the African Commission on Human and Peoples ' Rights during a fact-finding mission in 2002 .
It said evidence gathered during the review period showed that human rights violations occurred in Zimbabwe .
The mission said it received testimony from witnesses who were victims of political violence and torture while in police custody .
It said the Zimbabwe government can not wash its hands of responsibility .
The report was first made public during last year 's AU summit in July .
It was not endorsed at the time , in order to allow for the Zimbabwe government 's response to be included .
In July , the government denounced the report .
HEARING that the Birds in an aviary were ill , a Cat went to them and said that he was a physician , and would cure them if they would let him in .
" To what school of medicine do you belong ? " asked the Birds .
" I am a Miaulopathist , " said the Cat .
" Did you ever practise Gohomoeopathy ? " the Birds inquired , winking faintly .
The Cat took the hint and his leave .
An Iraqi woman who confessed to participating in the triple suicide bombing attacks in Jordan 's capital last week had three brothers killed by U.S. forces in Iraq .
Jordanian officials and friends of Sajida al-Rishawi said Tuesday that one of her brothers was a top aide of Iraq 's most wanted terrorist , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , and was killed in Fallujah during a U.S.-led offensive last year .
Two other brothers , also insurgents , were killed in the western city of Ramadi .
Sajida al-Rishawi confessed to trying to blow herself up at a wedding party in the Radisson hotel , but said her explosives belt malfunctioned .
Her husband , one of three successful bombers , died in the attacks that killed 57 people .
Meanwhile , Jordan 's official news agency reports that U.S. National Intelligence Director John Negroponte met with Jordan 's foreign minister Farouk Qasrawi in Amman today .
U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian counterpart Dmitri Medvedev say they still plan to have a replacement nuclear arms reduction treaty ready by the end of the year .
The two presidents met in Singapore Sunday after the close of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum .
The two leading nuclear powers have committed to a replacement for their Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty , which expires on December 5 .
Earlier this year , Mr. Obama and Mr. Medvedev agreed to reduce Cold War-era stockpiles from 2,200 warheads to somewhere between 1,500 and 1,650 .
That agreement is part of a commitment from both leaders to reset bilateral relations strained in recent years by differences over NATO expansion and the brief Russian-Georgian war of 2008 .
A widely watched gage of future U.S. economic activity rose in October .
Monday 's report from a business research group showed the index of leading economic indicators growing nine-tenths of a point to 137.9 .
The index is intended to predict economic performance three to six months in the future .
The increase was more than economists expected and a change from the previous month , which saw a decline .
Analysts say the labor market is recovering from the effects of recent hurricanes .
Two astronauts have resumed work outside the International Space Station on a new European science laboratory .
Rex Walheim and Stanley Love began their spacewalk Friday morning , installing science experiments , including a solar monitor , to the exterior of the Columbus lab .
It is the third and final spacewalk during the U.S. shuttle Atlantis mission to the orbital outpost .
Walheim and Love installed the European Space Agency lab Monday with help from crew inside the space station .
The Atlantis is set to return to Earth next week .
U.S. and Colombian officials have arrested 22 Colombians for smuggling heroin into the United States using a wide variety of methods , including having the drug surgically implanted into puppies .
U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration officials said Wednesday that a two-year investigation led to the arrests in Colombia and the United States .
Officials said that in one instance , three kilograms of liquid heroin packets had been implanted into six puppies .
Three of the dogs later died of infection .
DEA officials also say smugglers frequently use human couriers , known as " swallowers , " who typically ingest drug-packed pellets before boarding flights for the United States .
The drugs are also frequently concealed in body creams and aerosol cans , and sewn into purses and luggage .
Witnesses in Somalia say fighting between Islamist insurgents and Ethiopian troops has killed at least eight people in the capital , Mogadishu .
Residents say Ethiopian troops allied to Somalia 's transitional government entered a neighborhood in the north of the city early Saturday , sparking fierce clashes with insurgents .
They say at least two Ethiopian soldiers are among those killed .
Witnesses say at least five civilians were killed when a stray artillery shell struck a small restaurant in the city 's Fagah neighborhood .
The Somali government has the backing of Ethiopian troops , who in 2006 helped drive a militant Islamist movement from power in southern Somalia .
Fighting between the insurgents and pro-government forces has killed thousands of Somalis during the past 16 months .
The conflict has intensified the country 's already dire humanitarian crisis .
An Afghan court has sentenced a former senior police officer to 10 years in prison for helping traffickers smuggle drugs from Afghanistan to Iran .
The jury found Commander General Malham Khan guilty Tuesday of cooperating with drug dealers and receiving bribes .
He was also fined $ 14,000 .
Authorities arrested the general , who was in charge of Afghan provinces bordering Turkmenistan and Iran , earlier this year .
Khan has denied all charges against him .
The prosecution 's evidence was based on the testimony of two police officers who worked with the general .
Afghanistan is the world 's leading producer of poppies , the raw material for opium and heroin .
The country 's multi-million- dollar drug trade is seen to be aiding the Taliban-led insurgency and encouraging corruption .
The United States and France have urged Iran to restart negotiations on its nuclear program , warning that referring the issue to the United Nations Security Council for sanctions is still a possibility .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and French officials made the comment Friday in Paris , after the secretary 's talks with French President Jacques Chirac .
Iran 's refusal to grant full access to International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors contributed to an IAEA vote last month that found Iran in violation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
Secretary Rice has arrived in Moscow , where she is expected to discuss the Iran nuclear issue with Russian officials Saturday .
Meanwhile , Iran 's official IRNA news agency quotes Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying during talks in Beijing that his country is ready to resume negotiations on the nuclear issue .
Lebanese military officials say the army is making significant progress against militants barricaded inside a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
Officials say at least one Lebanese soldier was killed Tuesday as fighting continued in the eight-week standoff .
The military says it has forced the remaining Fatah al-Islam militants into a small area and is pressuring them to surrender .
In combat on Monday , troops unleashed artillery shells and exchanged machine gun fire with militants .
The militants also launched at least five Katyusha rockets that landed in areas outside of the Nahr al-Bared camp .
More than 200 people have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
That includes about 100 Lebanese soldiers and at least 60 militants .
Israeli troops have shot and killed a Palestinian teenager during an operation in the West Bank .
The 16-year-old boy was killed as Israeli forces raided a building in the city of Nablus .
A military spokesman says the troops were forced to open fire after a group of Palestinians threw stones and Molotov cocktails at them .
At least six other Palestinians were wounded .
The incident occurred as Israeli forces were attempting to capture two Palestinians who are members of the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , an offshoot of the Fatah movement .
Yemeni officials say a suspected al-Qaida militant shot two police guards Sunday in an unsuccessful attempt to escape the hospital where he was being treated in the capital , Sanaa .
Hospital officials say the suspect grabbed a weapon from his guards and opened fire , but failed to get out of the hospital .
Yemen intensified its fight against al-Qaida after a local branch claimed responsibility for a failed bomb attack on a U.S.-bound airplane in December .
The United States has pledged millions of dollars in military aid to help the country battle terrorism .
February is Black History Month in the United States .
Each year communities are encouraged to celebrate the achievements of African Americans and their forebears .
It is also a time to commemorate the many struggles they have faced .
Among the most painful of those episodes was the centuries-long practice of slavery , when men and women of African descent were bought and sold , and forced into lives of bondage and hard labor .
As VOA 's George Dwyer reports , a small museum in a town just outside Washington D.C. is acknowledging the nation 's slave-owning past .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Australia 's Sydney Harbor went dark as lights were turned off at the iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbor Bridge as part of Earth Hour , a global event calling attention to climate change .
First organized in Sydney in 2007 , at least 3,929 communities around the world are shutting off lights this year in the event rolling through the world 's time zones .
Hundreds of landmarks around the world are expected to go dark for an hour as nightfall circles the globe Saturday night .
This year 's Earth Hour officially started in the remote Chatham Island chain about 800 kilometers southeast of New Zealand .
Organizers hope up to a billion people from small villages in Namibia to sprawling cities in Asia will participate in an international effort to cut greenhouse gas emissions , which many scientists blame for a warming climate .
Eight people are dead following attacks on security patrols in southern Thailand , where Muslim separatists are conducting a low-level insurgency .
In the first attack , late Thursday , rebels detonated a roadside bomb and then opened fire on a military vehicle in Narathiwat province , killing five people .
Several weapons were seized in the attack , after which a village headman was reported among the dead .
Three more soldiers were killed Friday by a roadside bomb in Yala province that destroyed their pickup truck .
More than 4,000 people have died in about six years of fighting in southern Thailand , the only Muslim-majority region in the mainly Buddhist nation .
Efforts to contain the insurgency have been made more difficult by a recent crisis in the capital , where opposition protests were crushed in May leaving almost 90 people dead .
Afghan officials say security forces have found the dead body of a Turkish engineer who was abducted by suspected militants Tuesday .
Interior Ministry official Jamil Jumbesh said the body was found in eastern Afghanistan Wednesday , and appeared to have been shot several times .
The Turkish engineer was working on a road construction project between the southeastern city of Jalalabad and Kunar to the east .
Also abducted were his driver and a translator .
Both Afghan nationals were freed hours later .
A prominent Cuban dissident has denied reports that she sought refuge at the Argentine embassy in Havana after spending the night there earlier this week .
Renown brain surgueon Hilda Molina told reporters late Thursday that she had gone to the embassy with her mother Wednesday in an effort to have a telephone conversation with her son who lives in Buenos Aires .
She said while there , her mother became ill and embassy staff offered to let the two women spend the night .
An Argentine newspaper had reported that Ms. Molina was seeking asylum in the embassy .
For ten years , Cuba has denied Ms. Molina a visa to visit her son and grandchildren in Argentina .
Argentine President Nestor Kirchner wrote to Cuban President on her behalf earlier this month .
French authorities have set up a three-kilometer zone around a turkey farm in the southeast of the country because the deadly strain of the bird flu virus may have infected poultry there .
The French agriculture ministry says the virus is suspected in 11,000 turkeys because many have died .
It says surviving poultry will be slaughtered .
The farm is in the Ain region , where France confirmed its first two cases of the H5N1 strain in wild ducks .
The Greek agriculture ministry reports seven more cases of H5N1 in wild birds , bringing its total to 16 .
German officials report 110 cases .
Slovak officials say two dead wild birds appear to have the virus .
The strain has also been confirmed in Hungary , Slovenia , Italy and Austria .
Bird flu has killed 92 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Egypt 's leading human rights group has called for an investigation into the violent death of a jailed suspected terrorist .
Officials said Ashraf Saeed Youssef died in prison last Thursday after intentionally smashing his head against a wall .
The Egyptian Organization for Human Rights says he may have been tortured while in detention .
Prosecutors accused him of leading a group responsible for several recent attacks on foreigners .
They say he organized the April 7 suicide bombing in Cairo that killed three foreigners and the April 30 attacks on the Egyptian Museum and a tourist bus that wounded seven people .
The human rights group said Ashraf Saeed Youssef 's cousin also died in police custody earlier this month .
There were no details available on his death .
In Washington , environmental groups and organizations promoting alternative energy have presented recommendations to transform the United States into an energy efficient country .
The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on subsistence agriculture , cotton production , and regional trade .
Growth in real output had averaged about 4 % before the global recession , but fell to 2.7 % in 2009 and 3 % in 2010 .
Inflation has subsided over the past several years .
In order to raise growth , Benin plans to attract more foreign investment , place more emphasis on tourism , facilitate the development of new food processing systems and agricultural products , and encourage new information and communication technology .
Specific projects to improve the business climate by reforms to the land tenure system , the commercial justice system , and the financial sector were included in Benin 's $ 307 million Millennium Challenge Account grant signed in February 2006 .
The 2001 privatization policy continues in telecommunications , water , electricity , and agriculture .
As result of these reforms , Benin has become the most competitive country in the West African Economic and Monetary Union , according to the World Economic Forum .
The Paris Club and bilateral creditors have eased the external debt situation , with Benin benefiting from a G-8 debt reduction announced in July 2005 , while pressing for more rapid structural reforms .
An insufficient electrical supply continues to adversely affect Benin 's economic growth though the government recently has taken steps to increase domestic power production .
The chairman of the committee drafting Iraq 's constitution says a compromise has been reached and that a new draft document will be sent to the parliament on Sunday .
Shi'ite Sheik Humam Hammoudi made the announcement early Saturday ( local time ) , shortly after the latest negotiation deadline expired .
But Sunni Arab negotiators said no agreement has been reached , and one prominent Sunni Arab , Saleh al-Mutlaq , told Arab television that he urged all Iraqis to reject the document when it is put to a national referendum October 15 .
Talks had been extended for an extra day so that Sunni Arab concerns regarding federalism and the exclusion of former Ba'athists from the government could be further discussed .
In other developments , the U.S. military launched multiple airstrikes Friday against a building near the Syrian border sheltering about 50 suspected terrorists linked to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
No casualty figures were released .
Haiti 's new president Rene Preval is an advocate of the poor , a former president , and a former ally of ex-president Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Haitians once referred to Preval and Aristide as " the twins " because of their similarities and political alliance .
Both were popular for their interest in helping Haiti 's poor .
Preval served his first presidential term from 1996 to 2001 , between Aristide 's two terms in office .
Critics said Preval was no more than a placeholder for his colleague .
But the two men broke over the corruption scandal that brought down Aristide 's presidency in 2004 .
As Haiti 's first elected president since Aristide 's departure , Preval says he wants to improve social conditions and education for his homeland , which is known as the poorest nation in the Americas .
At least 17 people have been reported killed and more than 60 hurt in clashes between rival ethnic and political groups in the Pakistani city of Karachi over the past two days .
Security forces are patrolling Karachi Sunday to prevent further violence between members of a political party that represents Urdu speakers , Muttahida Qaumi Movement , and another that represents Pashtuns , Awami National Party .
Troops have been given orders to use their guns if necessary .
Since Saturday , angry mobs have rampaged in parts of the city , firing guns and setting fire to cars .
Today in northwest Pakistan , police say militants attacked a security post in the town of Bannu , close to the Afghan border , killing three police .
Three militants were killed in the fighting .
In nearby Lakki Marwat , another three policemen were killed when Taliban insurgents launched rockets at a security checkpoint .
Britain oversaw foreign relations and defense for the ruling Kuwaiti AL-SABAH dynasty from 1899 until independence in 1961 .
Kuwait was attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August 1990 .
Following several weeks of aerial bombardment , a US-led , UN coalition began a ground assault on 23 February 1991 that liberated Kuwait in four days .
Kuwait spent more than $ 5 billion to repair oil infrastructure damaged during 1990 - 91 .
The AL-SABAH family has ruled since returning to power in 1991 and reestablished an elected legislature that in recent years has become increasingly assertive .
The country witnessed the historic election in May 2009 of four women to its National Assembly .
Amid the 2010 - 11 uprisings and protests across the Arab world , stateless Arabs , known as bidoon , staged small protests in February and March 2011 demanding citizenship , jobs , and other benefits available to Kuwaiti nationals .
Youth activist groups - supported by opposition legislators and the prime minister 's rivals within the ruling family - in March of 2011 rallied for an end to corruption and the prime minister 's ouster .
Hurricane Tomas is gaining strength as it moves deeper into the Caribbean Sunday , after tearing off roofs , downing powerlines and dropping up to 15 centimeters of rain across Barbados , St. Vincent and St. Lucia .
No deaths have been reported on those islands , but hundreds of people took refuge in shelters as 150 kilometer per hour winds tore at buildings and rain-soaked hillsides slid across roads .
Forecasters at the U.S. National Hurricane Center say Tomas has the potential to strengthen into a major storm as it moves westward toward Jamaica , Haiti and the Dominican Republic .
Winds are now at 160 kilometers per hour .
Tomas could bring heavy rains across the southern parts of the Dominican Republic and Haiti , which is struggling to recover from a devastating earthquake and cope with a recent cholera outbreak .
A Galapagos giant tortoise , thought to be the last of its kind , might soon save its species from extinction by becoming a father .
Ecuador 's Galapagos National Park said Monday the tortoise , nicknamed " Lonesome George , " stunned his keepers by mating with a female companion of a similar species .
They had tried for 36 years to get him to reproduce .
Three eggs are now being cared for in incubators .
It will take about four months to know if they are viable .
George was discovered on Pinta island in the early 1970s .
He is about 70 years old , middle age for a giant tortoise , and should be able to reproduce .
The rights group Amnesty International has accused Nigerian authorities of forcibly evicting 1.2 million people from their homes over the last five years .
Amnesty has released a report on the evictions compiled with a Nigerian group , the Social and Economic Rights Action Center .
In the most recent instance cited in the report , Amnesty says government forces seized and demolished homes , churches and a mosque in a Lagos neighborhood last April , leaving 3,000 people homeless .
It says nine months later , hundreds of people from the Makoko neighborhood are still sleeping out in the open .
Amnesty says the evictions amount to a " grave violation of human rights , " and has called on the Nigerian government to immediately make sure they stop .
Nigerian officials have not yet commented on the report .
Syrian intelligence agents have abandoned their headquarters in Lebanon 's Bekaa Valley town of Anjar and returned home .
Their departure Monday virtually completes a pullout that ends 29 years of Syrian dominance in Lebanese political life .
Witnesses say a Syrian convoy left Anjar and crossed the border into Syria at Masnaa early this evening .
The head of Syrian military intelligence , Major-General Rustom Ghazale , was seen in one of the vehicles .
He is expected to return to Lebanon briefly Tuesday to take part in a farewell ceremony .
Earlier Monday , Lebanon 's pro-Syrian security chief resigned .
The Syrian withdrawal comes two months after opposition leaders blamed the Beirut government and its Syrian sponsors for the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Despite denials from both governments , hundreds of thousands of protesters took to the streets of Beirut to demand that all Syrian forces leave the country .
The head of the Democratic Republic of Congo 's electoral commission says nationwide elections set for June this year may be delayed , but added they must take place by November .
Apolinaire Malu Malu says postponing elections is in line with Congo 's peace accord , which allows for two delays of up to six months .
The elections will mark the first time Congolese voters will go to the polls since independence in 1960 .
Most of the fighting that drew in six foreign armies and several rebel groups has stopped and Congo 's former fighters have joined a transitional government .
But progress in unifying the vast Central African country has been hampered by political infighting and continued lawlessness and sporadic violence in the east .
Iran has asked to meet British , French and German negotiators Monday to discuss the stand-off over its nuclear program .
Iran requested the talks in Brussels for the same day delegates from those countries plus the United States and European Union meet in London to discuss whether to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council .
The United States accuses Tehran of secretly trying to build an atomic bomb , and wants the Council to impose sanctions on Tehran for violating provisions of a key global nuclear treaty .
Iran says its nuclear program is for developing electricity .
In Tehran Sunday , a Foreign Ministry spokesman , Hamid Reza Asefi , cautioned the West against acting in haste against Iran , saying a referral to the Security Council would solve nothing .
In Jerusalem , visiting German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that Iran and its nuclear program pose a threat to the entire democratic world .
Chinese officials say the cabinet will ask top lawmakers to settle a dispute over how many years Hong Kong 's next leader will serve .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says the State Council , China 's cabinet , decided Sunday to request that the Standing Committee of the National People 's Congress interpret Hong Kong 's constitution and resolve the disagreement .
The dispute began last month when Hong Kong Chief Executive announced he was retiring because of ill health .
Hong Kong pro-democracy lawmakers and legal experts have argued that the Basic Law , the territory 's mini constitution , says that Mr. Tung 's successor should serve a full , five-year term .
But the government and mainland legal experts insist that the next leader should finish the remaining two years in Mr. Tung 's term .
Several hundred people , mostly youths of African descent , have marched to the French parliament in Paris to protest laws they say discriminate against immigrants and minorities .
Wednesday 's march comes two days before the first anniversary of fiery suburban riots that shook France last year .
The youths , representing poor and minority neighborhoods , carried banners and lists of their complaints .
Police and security forces lined their route , barring close approach to public buildings .
A grass-roots movement , AC - Le Feu , founded in Clichy-sous-Bois , a northern suburb of Paris , says it has collected some 20,000 complaints and will publish them in a Book of Grievances ahead of next year 's elections .
The group says there have been no improvements in poor neighborhoods since the riots .
Russian police have detained about 20 human rights activists who demonstrated in Moscow Wednesday against what they called an official campaign against non-governmental organizations .
Those detained were among a group of 60 protesters who had received permission to demonstrate in Lubyanka Square , but later moved to the front of the headquarters of the Federal Security Service , the successor to the KGB The detainees include the leader of the movement For Human Rights , Lev Ponomaryov ; the head of the Memorial Human Rights Center , Oleg Orlov ; and Human Rights Institute Director Valentin Gefter .
The activists were protesting recently adopted legislation restricting the rights of non-governmental groups in Russia , and television documentaries attempting to portray group members as maintaining close ties with foreign intelligence services .
North Korea has proposed a resumption of talks involving Red Cross officials from both countries .
South Korean Red Cross officials say their Northern counterparts telephoned Friday , with an offer to host a meeting later this month at the Mount Kumgang resort near the Demilitarized Zone separating the two countries .
The two sides have been discussing the construction of facilities at Mount Kumgang for the reunions of separated families .
The North Korean offer came two days after Seoul sent the first shipment of a promised 100,000 tons of fertilizer to the north .
The last Red Cross talks took place in July , prior to a deterioration in bilateral ties triggered by a mass defection of North Koreans to the South .
The U.S. Department of Defense says it will begin blocking the use of its computers and networks to access some popular websites on the Internet .
A memo from the U.S. forces commander in Korea , General B.B. Bell , says the Pentagon will block access to sites like YouTube and MySpace , along with some other video and photo-sharing services and social networking sites .
The Pentagon says the ban is needed because recreational traffic to the websites slows down official Defense Department networks and poses a significant security challenge .
The access restrictions will only affect Defense Department equipment .
Members of the U.S. military can still access the websites on their own computers and networks , although Pentagon computers are the only ones available to many troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan .
At least 16 bodies of people apparently killed execution-style have been found in a Sunni Muslim insurgent stronghold , Qaim in western Iraq .
Witnesses say many of the bodies were blindfolded , bound and clad in civilian clothes .
It was unclear if the bodies were related to some 20 Iraqi soldiers that disappeared from the area Tuesday .
Separately , Iraqi authorities say gunmen shot dead two senior police officials in Kirkuk and another two police officers in Basra .
The U.S. army said Friday it is launching a criminal investigation into the killing of two army officers at a base north of Baghdad on Tuesday .
Officials first reported they had been killed by mortar fire , but say a later investigation ruled that out .
U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns begins talks in New Delhi Friday on a civilian nuclear deal offered to India by President Bush during Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's July visit to Washington .
Under the deal , the United States would help India 's civilian nuclear program to boost growth in Asia 's third-largest economy .
In return , India promised to separate its civilian and military nuclear facilities and place the civilian ones under international safeguards .
Speaking at the Asia Society in New York before his departure for New Delhi , Mr. Burns said India must draft a plan to separate civil and military nuclear sectors so Washington can keep its side of the agreement .
Several U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern about the deal , saying it goes against the nuclear non-proliferation regime .
Colombia 's biggest leftist rebel group has rejected the latest call from the government for talks about exchanging hostages for jailed rebels .
In a statement issued Thursday , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , said it would not agree to talks until government forces withdraw from the area where the two sides are set to meet for a period of 30 days .
President Alvaro Uribe has refused earlier demands to create a demilitarized zone .
His government has promised to ensure safe passage for any FARC negotiators to attend the proposed talks in southwestern Pradera county .
Colombia 's government is offering to exchange some 500 jailed rebels for dozens of hostages , including politicians , military personnel and three U.S. defense contractors .
FARC rebels have been battling government forces and right-wing paramilitaries in a 40-year-old conflict .
Some of information in the story provided by AP .
The International Red Cross has called on the United States to grant access to all al-Qaida suspects it is holding , including those reported to be in secret prisons in undisclosed locations .
A spokeswoman says the agency is concerned about the fate of those held .
Wednesday , the Washington Post newspaper and NBC television reported that the CIA has been holding and interrogating top al-Qaida suspects at secret locations outside the United States .
The reports say more than 100 prisoners have been questioned at facilities in at least two eastern European countries , Thailand and other locations .
Thailand has denied having secret detention centers , as have officials in many eastern European states .
Earlier Thursday , a European Union spokesman said the European Commission will investigate the reports of the possible use of secret detention facilities in eastern Europe .
U.S authorities have refused to confirm or deny the reports .
Iraqi authorities say unidentified gunmen killed three Iraqi soldiers and two policemen during an attack at a security checkpoint in western Baghdad .
Officials say the attack took place late Sunday night .
In other violence , police say a car bomb in the northern city of Mosul has wounded at least eight people .
U.S. troops pulled out of Iraqi cities last week and deployed to their bases , leaving Iraqi police and soldiers in control of security in residential areas .
U.S. President Barack Obama has pledged to withdraw all combat troops from Iraq by September 2010 , leaving only advisors and trainers .
At present , about 130,000 U.S. troops remain in Iraq to conduct combat duties outside urban areas .
Montenegro 's government and opposition leaders have agreed to hold a referendum on May 21 on the republic 's independence .
Officials announced the decision Tuesday following talks with European Union envoy Miroslav Lajcak .
Montenegro 's parliament is to meet Wednesday to consider the referendum plan .
Officials say the agreement calls for postponing local elections , originally set for March , to coincide with a parliamentary vote later in the year .
The two sides accepted an EU proposal that 55 percent of those casting ballots must back independence for the referendum to be approved .
The 2003 agreement that transformed the former Yugoslavia into Serbia and Montenegro allows the Montenegrins to move towards independence this year .
Montenegro was the only republic to remain with Serbia after the break-up of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s .
Upon independence in 1960 , the former French region of Middle Congo became the Republic of the Congo .
A quarter century of experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a democratically elected government took office in 1992 .
A brief civil war in 1997 restored former Marxist President Denis SASSOU-Nguesso , and ushered in a period of ethnic and political unrest .
Southern-based rebel groups agreed to a final peace accord in March 2003 , but the calm is tenuous and refugees continue to present a humanitarian crisis .
The Republic of Congo was once one of Africa 's largest petroleum producers , but with declining production it will need new offshore oil finds to sustain its oil earnings over the long term .
India is developing into an open-market economy , yet traces of its past autarkic policies remain .
Economic liberalization , including industrial deregulation , privatization of state-owned enterprises , and reduced controls on foreign trade and investment , began in the early 1990s and has served to accelerate the country 's growth , which has averaged more than 7 % per year since 1997 .
India 's diverse economy encompasses traditional village farming , modern agriculture , handicrafts , a wide range of modern industries , and a multitude of services .
Slightly more than half of the work force is in agriculture , but services are the major source of economic growth , accounting for more than half of India 's output , with only one-third of its labor force .
India has capitalized on its large educated English-speaking population to become a major exporter of information technology services and software workers .
In 2010 , the Indian economy rebounded robustly from the global financial crisis - in large part because of strong domestic demand - and growth exceeded 8 % year-on-year in real terms .
Merchandise exports , which account for about 15 % of GDP , returned to pre-financial crisis levels .
An industrial expansion and high food prices , resulting from the combined effects of the weak 2009 monsoon and inefficiencies in the government 's food distribution system , fueled inflation which peaked at about 11 % in the first half of 2010 , but has gradually decreased to single digits following a series of central bank interest rate hikes .
In 2010 New Delhi reduced subsidies for fuel and fertilizers , sold a small percentage of its shares in some state-owned enterprises and auctioned off rights to radio bandwidth for 3G telecommunications in part to lower the government 's deficit .
The Indian Government seeks to hold its budget deficit to 5.5 % of GDP in FY 2010 - 11 , down from 6.8 % in the previous fiscal year .
India 's long term challenges include widespread poverty , inadequate physical and social infrastructure , limited non-agricultural employment opportunities , insufficient access to quality basic and higher education , and accommodating rural-to-urban migration .
The lights came up , the music started , and Heather Mills danced divinely .
The animal rights crusader - who wears a prosthetic lower left leg - emerged unscathed in the first round of ABC televsion 's popular show , Dancing With The Stars .
The 39-year-old activist created worldwide interest after becoming the first amputee to compete in the televised U.S. dance contest .
The victim of a 1993 motorcycle accident , Heather says she has placed a brace over the limb to prevent it detaching .
She says she hopes her efforts will cheer and encourage other young amputees .
The three judges praised her footwork , but told her to work on her upper body movement .
Little-known in the United States , Heather Mills is a major public figure in Britain , largely due to her bitter divorce from former Beatle Paul McCartney .
The two separated last May .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has expressed support for the Pakistani government 's decision to raid a radical mosque in Islamabad on Tuesday .
Mr. Karzai told reporters Wednesday that his nation fully supports Pakistan 's campaign against extremists .
He also called on Pakistan to take an equally decisive stand against militants who are crossing the border into neighboring Afghanistan and killing Afghan civilians .
Pakistani officials say their government is bracing for a possible militant backlash after Tuesday 's raid at the Red Mosque compound .
Officials warn there could be an uprising along the border with Afghanistan , where the mosque 's pro-Taleban leaders had many supporters .
A South African newspaper says a threat from an al-Qaida splinter group prompted this week 's closure of the U.S. Embassy in Pretoria and other U.S. facilities .
The Pretoria News says the group telephoned the embassy Monday and apparently gave detailed information about possible attacks against several U.S. government buildings in South Africa .
The newspaper says its information is from " well-placed security sources . "
It cites an intelligence source as saying the call to the embassy is believed to have come from South Africa .
That source says the threat may have been prompted by the September 14 killing of alleged al-Qaida operative Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan in Somalia by U.S. forces .
U.S. officials have refused to disclose any details about the threat that prompted them to close the embassy , three consulates , and U.S. aid offices on Tuesday .
The facilities are scheduled to reopen on Friday .
Thousands of Sudanese gathered at Khartoum airport Saturday to show their support for a new peace deal between the government and southern rebels .
Crowds sang , danced , and cheered the arrival of the government negotiators headed by Sudan 's First Vice President Ali Osman Taha .
Later , Mr. Taha told another crowd at the headquarters of the ruling party that the deal is complete , with no differences remaining .
Meanwhile , Sudan 's opposition Popular Congress Party welcomed the deal .
On Friday in Kenya , the government and the rebel Sudan 's People 's Liberation Army signed the last remaining agreements to bring an end to 21 years of civil war .
The latest accords call for a permanent cease-fire and lay out the details of how to implement a final agreement .
A document that includes all previous agreements is expected to be signed on January 9 .
Officials in Yemen say they will hold peace talks in the coming days with Shi'ite rebel leaders to strengthen a fragile 2007 peace deal .
Qatari officials will mediate the talks between the two sides in Doha .
Qatar also oversaw negotiations for the agreement three years ago .
The meeting was planned when Qatar 's Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabir Al Thani made a trip to Yemen last month .
Six years of fighting between the northern rebels and government forces ended earlier this year in a ceasefire .
Both sides have since been accusing the other of violating the peace deal signed at the time .
The talks come only a few days after rebels tried to take over two government buildings in the northern al-Jawf province .
Yemen 's western-backed government has also been trying to confront an al-Qaida insurgency as well as violent protests by separatists in the south .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates has ordered top military officials to inform the Pentagon before giving interviews to news media .
The new policy announced Friday comes little more than a week after the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan , General Stanley McChrystal , was forced to resign because of a published article .
The U.S. magazine Rolling Stone last month published mocking comments McChrystal and his staff made about the Obama administration .
Pentagon officials say Secretary Gates was working on the new policy before that scandal .
They added that the policy was not intended to restrict information or media access to officials .
Some reporters have expressed concern after the McChrystal episode that military officials will be wary of communicating with them .
Uganda has substantial natural resources , including fertile soils , regular rainfall , small deposits of copper , gold , and other minerals , and recently discovered oil .
Uganda has never conducted a national minerals survey .
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy , employing over 80 % of the work force .
Coffee accounts for the bulk of export revenues .
Since 1986 , the government - with the support of foreign countries and international agencies - has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by undertaking currency reform , raising producer prices on export crops , increasing prices of petroleum products , and improving civil service wages .
The policy changes are especially aimed at dampening inflation and boosting production and export earnings .
Since 1990 economic reforms ushered in an era of solid economic growth based on continued investment in infrastructure , improved incentives for production and exports , lower inflation , better domestic security , and the return of exiled Indian-Ugandan entrepreneurs .
Uganda has received about $ 2 billion in multilateral and bilateral debt relief .
In 2007 Uganda received $ 10 million for a Millennium Challenge Account Threshold Program .
The global economic downturn has hurt Uganda 's exports ; however , Uganda 's GDP growth is still relatively strong due to past reforms and sound management of the downturn .
Oil revenues and taxes will become a larger source of government funding as oil comes on line in the next few years .
Instability in southern Sudan is the biggest risk for the Ugandan economy in 2011 because Uganda 's main export partner is Sudan , and Uganda is a key destination for Sudanese refugees .
An Australian archaeology team has located an ancient Egyptian city used by foreign occupiers some 3,500 years ago .
Egypt 's antiquities department says pictures taken by radar show an underground city complete with streets , houses and temples .
It is located in an area in Egypt 's Nile Delta .
Antiquities Chief Zahi Hawass says the ancient city could be part of Avaris , the capital used by the Hyksos , an Asiatic group that ruled Egypt from 1664 through 1569 BC .
A U.S. Marine charged with deserting his unit while serving in Iraq has been labeled a deserter for a second time .
The Marines Corps said in a statement Wednesday that Corporal Wassef Ali Hassoun failed to return to his base at Camp Lejeune , North Carolina Tuesday , after an authorized leave .
The statement said civilian law enforcement officials have been authorized to apprehend the corporal and return him to military control .
Corporal Hassoun was serving as an Arabic interpreter when he disappeared from his brigade last June .
A videotape was aired on the Arab TV network al-Jazeera , showing him blindfolded and apparently being held hostage .
Corporal Hassoun turned up unharmed several weeks later at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut .
The Senate is investigating deceptive sweepstakes practices .
These companies target the elderly and make them think they will receive a bunch of money , but in reality they never see any of it .
The most popular of these scams is called Social Security .
More fighting broke out in central Somalia Friday , killing at least eight people and injuring at least 20 others .
Rival militiamen used tanks and heavy machine guns in the battle , which broke out early this morning in Galgudud , a region near the border with Ethiopia .
Local officials say a week of fighting has left about 100 people dead .
Families uprooted by the violence arrived at the port in the capital , Mogadishu , Friday in small fishing boats .
It is not clear what triggered the violence .
Somalia is trying to emerge from 13 years without a central government .
A newly installed Somali administration based in Nairobi , Kenya , is trying to end years of factional violence and lawlessness .
Palestine Liberation Organization leader Mahmoud Abbas has received a hero 's welcome on a campaign trip to the Gaza Strip .
Armed militants hoisted Mr. Abbas on their shoulders as thousands of Palestinians greeted him Saturday at a refugee camp in Rafah on the Egyptian border .
The camp is the scene of frequent clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops .
Mr. Abbas is the front-running candidate in this month 's election to choose a leader for the Palestinian Authority .
He has denounced violence , but also has won crucial support from militants by promising to insist on a total Israeli withdrawal from occupied Palestinian land .
Meanwhile , a 10-year-old Palestinian girl was killed Saturday when an explosion ripped through her home in the northern Gaza Strip .
Neighbors said the explosion appeared to have been caused by a Palestinian rocket that militants had aimed at Israel .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has met and shaken hands with AIDS patients at a Beijing hospital .
State media say Mr. Hu told the patients Tuesday that China must end all discrimination and estrangement towards those suffering from HIV and AIDS .
The hospital visit is believed to be the first time Mr. Hu has met publicly with AIDS patients since becoming president last year .
China estimates it has 840,000 people living with HIV or AIDS on the mainland , although some experts believe there are many more .
The World Health Organization has warned that China could face as many as 10-million patients by 2010 unless Beijing strengthens efforts to address the epidemic .
Palestinian hospital officials say Israeli soldiers have shot a young Palestinian boy in the northern West Bank town of Jenin .
Hospital officials say a bullet struck the boy in the head Thursday when Israeli soldiers fired on a group of Palestinians throwing rocks at them .
Associated Press reports the boy has been put on life support .
Residents say the Israeli soldiers were in the town pursuing an Islamic Jihad fugitive .
Meanwhile , Hamas militants who had threatened not to renew a de~facto truce with Israel when it expires at the end of this year backed off Thursday , saying they would extend it if Israel stops its " aggression " and releases Palestinian prisoners .
Mahmoud Zahar , a Hamas leader in the Gaza Strip said the Palestinian Authority must also hold parliamentary elections as scheduled in January and reform what he called its corrupt government .
Iran has launched an English satellite television news channel in hopes of giving what Tehran says is an alternate view to Western media coverage .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke at a ceremony Monday marking the inauguration of the channel , which will focus on Middle East news .
He said the network should stand behind oppressed nations but not make up news in their favor .
The state-owned channel , called Press TV , says on its Web site that it aims to " break the global media stranglehold of Western outlets . "
The channel also says it is the first international Iran-based news network to broadcast in English on a 24-hour cycle .
Press TV has bureaus and staff around the world , including in the Middle East and the United States .
Three Muslim men , believed to be closely linked to al-Qaida , have pleaded guilty in London to using the Internet to incite terrorism .
Authorities say Younes Tsouli , Waseem Mughal and Tariq al-Daour pleaded guilty to charges of inciting acts of terrorism wholly or partly outside Britain via Web sites that encouraged the killing of non-Muslims .
Police say the three men financed their activities using stolen credit cards .
Officials say they believe the case is the first time in Britain that anyone has been convicted on such charges .
The three changed their not-guilty pleas several months into their trial .
Authorities said they found manuals for putting together car bombs and suicide vests in the possession of the three men .
Washington D.C. has moved a step closer to formally returning Major League Baseball to the U.S. capital .
The D.C. City Council initially approved Tuesday a debt and tax-backed financing plan to build a new stadium .
Under the proposal , Washington would sell about $ 500 million in bonds along with an increased stadium sales tax and a new tax on large businesses in the city .
The financing needs final approval by December 31 under Mayor Anthony Williams ' agreement with Major League Baseball .
The mayor has said a new stadium would cost about $ 440 million .
But other estimates boost the total by more than $ 140 million .
The league announced in September the Montreal Expos would move to Washington .
The team was later renamed the Nationals .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says the Holocaust is a " myth " and has repeated his widely-condemned suggestion that the Jewish state of Israel be moved to Europe or North America .
Addressing a gathering in the Iranian city of Zahedan Wednesday , Mr. Ahmadinejad said the West has " fabricated a legend " which it holds " above God " of the systematic killing of millions of Jews by Nazi Germany during World War II .
His speech was broadcast on Iran 's state television .
Similar remarks earlier by the Iranian president caused an uproar and drew rebukes from Israel , the United States , and the United Nations .
The White House Wednesday said Mr. Ahmadinejad 's comments underscore why it is so important the international community continue to work together to keep Iran from developing nuclear weapons .
Thousands of Afghan students have held another protest against the reprinting of a Danish cartoon showing the Prophet Muhammad wearing a bomb-shaped turban .
The latest demonstration came Sunday in the eastern city of Jalalabad .
The protesters shouted slogans against Denmark and the Netherlands and denounced an upcoming Dutch film that reportedly criticizes the Koran .
They also called for Danish and Dutch troops to be expelled from the NATO-led force in Afghanistan .
On Saturday , thousands of people marched through the western city of Herat .
Muslims consider any depiction of the Prophet Muhammad as blasphemous .
The cartoon published in Denmark was one of 12 that led to deadly riots across the Muslim world when they were first published in 2006 .
Several Danish newspapers reprinted the cartoon last month in a show of support for the cartoonist , after police said they had uncovered a plot to kill him .
Russia says a third round of talks with the United States on reducing their nuclear arsenals will take place in Geneva on June 23 and 24 .
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Andrei Nesterenko said Thursday that President Dmitri Medvedev and his U.S. counterpart Barack Obama are hoping to announce the talks ' progress when Mr. Obama visits Moscow in early July .
The goal of the talks is to replace the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty ( START I ) before it expires on December 5 .
Nestrenko told reporters the negotiations were proceeding in a " constructive " manner .
START I led to major reductions in the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenal at the end of the Cold War .
Talks of finding a new agreement had made little progress under the administration of former U.S. President George W. Bush .
A CERTAIN rich man reared a Goose and a Swan , the one for his table , the other because she was reputed a good singer .
One night when the Cook went to kill the Goose he got hold of the Swan instead .
Thereupon the Swan , to induce him to spare her life , began to sing ; but she saved him nothing but the trouble of killing her , for she died of the song .
Condoleezza Rice U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has arrived in Chile , the third stop of her five-day Latin American tour .
Secretary Rice is due to hold separate meetings Thursday with Chilean President Ricardo Lagos and Foreign Minister Ignacio Walker .
She will later join officials from some 140 countries for a two-day meeting in Santiago of the informal Community of Democracies .
In Colombia on Wednesday , Secretary Rice pledged continued U.S. support for the country 's war against armed insurgents and drug traffickers .
She said the Bush administration is asking Congress for more than $ 600 million in security aid for Colombia .
Ms. Rice will stop in El Salvador on the final leg of her trip , before flying back to Washington .
Egypt is holding talks in Cairo with Palestinian militant leaders , as part of a push to strengthen Palestinian support for a de~facto ceasefire with Israel .
The talks are taking place as Egypt prepares to host an Israeli-Palestinian summit aimed at formalizing the truce and re-starting talks on the internationally brokered road map peace plan .
Militant sources say Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and Islamic Jihad leader Ramadan Shallah were both meeting Wednesday with Egyptian negotiators .
Egypt has not commented on the talks .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says Moscow will go ahead with a controversial weapons sale to Syria .
Russian news agencies quote Mr. Ivanov as saying Russia will supply Strelets air defense systems to Syria .
He said Moscow believes the sale will not disrupt the balance of forces in the region .
Mr. Ivanov spoke after meeting with Ukraine 's defense minister , Anatoliy Hrytsenko , in Moscow .
Tuesday 's comments come one day before Russian President Vladimir Putin is to travel to Israel .
The Israeli government has expressed concern that the weapons could fall into the hands of terrorists .
Mr. Ivanov also said Moscow theoretically could begin withdrawing from the two remaining Soviet-era bases in Georgia this year if there is an agreement on a date for completing the pullout .
Russia 's foreign minister made similar comments Monday .
Georgia has demanded a quick pullout , while Moscow says it could take years .
Hundreds of thousands of Cubans have attended a May Day rally in Havana , where a local labor leader encouraged Cubans to stay on the path set out by former President Fidel Castro .
Many of the marchers wore red T-shirts and waved Cuban flags Thursday as they marched through Revolution Square .
During the rally , President Raul Castro made his first May Day appearance as Cuban leader , but did not speak .
Since succeeding his older brother in February , Raul Castro has lifted several restrictions on Cubans , including the purchase of cell phones , DVD's and computers .
Cubans are also now able to stay in hotels if they can afford it .
The average salary is about $ 17 per month .
May Day celebrations are being held around the world .
The annual event marks International Workers Day .
The United States has asked Israel to investigate an incident in which a U.S. student lost an eye during a pro-Palestinian protest in Jerusalem .
A U.S. embassy spokesman in Tel Aviv Monday said officials there have passed the investigation request to the Israeli Foreign Ministry .
Twenty-one-year-old Emily Henochowicz lost her eye after being struck by an Israeli tear-gas canister during a protest at a Jerusalem checkpoint last week .
Henochowicz was demonstrating with a pro-Palestinian group against Israel 's raid on a Gaza-bound flotilla that killed nine Turkish activists .
Witnesses say Israeli border guards deliberately fired tear-gas canisters at the protesters .
The military says the injured American was not targeted .
Syria has rejected Israel 's call to hold unconditional peace talks with Damascus .
The official Tishrin newspaper said in an editorial Wednesday that Israel 's reported air strike in Syria earlier this month shows that Israel is not interested in peace .
The editorial also cites Israel 's fighting in Lebanon last year .
Syria has accused Israel of violating its air space and dropping munitions on its territory on September 6 .
The Israeli government has refused to comment on the alleged incident .
On Monday , Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel is ready to negotiate with Syria without preconditions .
The Syrian newspaper is calling on Israeli officials to show sincerity by resuming negotiations at the point where they broke down in 2000 .
Israel-Syria peace talks collapsed over the Golan Heights .
Israel seized the territory from Syria during the 1967 war .
Chinese officials say the world 's oldest panda in captivity has died at the age of 36 .
Mei Mei passed away Tuesday at the zoo in the southwestern city of Guilin , where she had lived for the last 20 years .
Experts say Mei Mei 's age made her the equivalent of more than 100 in human years .
Mei Mei 's death came on the same day that Chinese media reported the birth of a second set of rare twin panda cubs at the Wolong panda reserve in the southwest province of Sichuan .
At one Army base , the annual trip to the rifle range had been canceled for the second year in a row , but the semi-annual physical fitness test was still on as planned .
One soldier mused , " Does it bother anyone else that the Army does n't seem to care how well we can shoot , but they are extremely interested in how fast we can run ? "
NATO officials say a cargo helicopter chartered by a military contractor is missing in Afghanistan , and that NATO troops are assisting in the search .
NATO spokesmen Thursday declined to say where the search is taking place , citing security reasons .
The firm Supreme Global Services , which handles catering and logistics , chartered the helicopter .
It disappeared this week , but there are conflicting reports about which day it went missing .
Officials in central Afghanistan 's Logar province say there were reports Wednesday night of a helicopter making an emergency landing .
It was not immediately clear if that was the cargo helicopter reported missing .
Police in Belgium raided homes and made at least one arrest early Wednesday in connection with a suicide bombing in Iraq several weeks ago .
Belgian news reports say a Belgian woman blew herself up on November 9 in an attack on an American patrol in Baghdad .
No one besides the bomber was killed in the attack .
A police spokeswoman confirmed that Wednesday 's raids were carried out to find the woman 's co-conspirators .
Thirteen people of Belgian and Moroccan origin accused of belonging to an Islamic militant group are currently on trial in Brussels .
Their group is suspected of bomb attacks in Spain and Morocco that killed a total of 236 people .
That trial is the first under a new anti-terror law in Belgium that makes it a crime to associate with terrorists .
U.S. military officials say three U.S. service members have been killed by a roadside bomb in southern Afghanistan .
Officials made the announcement Wednesday but have not provided any more information .
The bombing comes amid a wave of attacks by Afghan insurgents against U.S. and NATO forces .
Last month was the deadliest for U.S. forces in Afghanistan since the Taliban-led government was ousted in 2001 .
Violence has risen steadily in Afghanistan in recent years as the Taliban has fought to extend control across wide swaths of the countryside .
The U.S. military and NATO have deployed a record number of troops to try to help Afghan forces crush the insurgency .
A new poll indicates a majority of both Republicans and Democrats think President Bush should disclose contacts between his staff and disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff .
A Washington Post / ABC poll released Saturday says 76 percent of the 1,000 people surveyed say President Bush should release lists of all meetings between Abramoff and his staff .
Broken down by party lines , two-thirds of Republicans favored disclosure , as well as eighty percent of Democrats and independents .
At a news conference Thursday , President Bush said federal prosecutors are welcome to look into those meetings , but he denied knowing Abramoff .
Jack Abramoff pleaded guilty to fraud charges earlier this month and agreed to cooperate with a federal corruption probe .
The poll also found that 56 percent of respondents disapprove of the way President Bush is handling ethics in government .
Dow Jones & Co. said it extended its $ 18-a-share offer for Telerate Inc. common stock until 5 p.m. EST Nov. 9 .
The offer , valued at about $ 576 million for the 33 % of Telerate that Dow Jones does n't already own , had been set to expire Nov. 6 .
Dow Jones , which owns about 64 million of Telerate 's 95 million common shares outstanding , said that about 24,000 shares have been tendered under its offer .
Telerate 's two independent directors have rejected the offer as inadequate .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Telerate shares closed at $ 19.50 , up 12.5 cents .
Telerate provides an electronic financial information network .
Dow Jones publishes The Wall Street Journal , Barron 's magazine , and community newspapers and operates financial news services and computer data bases .
Ivorian opposition leader Alassane Ouattara says he will return to Ivory Coast from exile in France to run for president of the west African nation .
In an interview published Sunday by a French newspaper , Nord Eclair , the former prime minister said he would stand for office as head of the " Rally for Republicans " party .
Ouattara was prevented from running for president in 2000 because of questions about his citizenship .
He left Ivory Coast in 2002 for self-imposed exile in France .
The government of Ivory Coast accuses Ouattara of backing rebels who control the northern half of the country .
No date has been set for the presidential election , but it is expected to be held before the end of October .
United Nations monitors say the Sudanese military is indiscriminately bombing villages in the north Darfur region , killing and injuring scores of civilians .
A spokesman , Jose Diaz , for the U.N. High Commissioner on Human Rights says Friday government bombing raids have forced hundreds of civilians in north Darfur to flee their homes .
He says a new report shows the government is waging a campaign against rebel groups who have not signed a peace agreement .
U.N. monitors also report ongoing sexual violence and rape of women who venture outside their villages to seek food or firewood in south Darfur , particularly near the village of Gereida .
The U.N. report says the alleged incidents took place earlier this month in the troubled region .
Some 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur since the start of fighting three years ago .
Syria has repeated its willingness to cooperate with the U.N. investigation into the murder of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
In a statement released Friday , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said Damascus would " continue " to cooperate with the international probe into Mr. Hariri 's assassination .
The announcement comes hours after Mr. al-Assad held talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak in the Syrian capital .
The U.N. Security Council is expected to resume talks next week on a draft resolution , co-sponsored by the United States , Britain and France , that threatens Syria with sanctions if it does not fully cooperate with the U.N. investigation .
Last week , a U.N. report on the investigation implicated Syrian officials in the assassination of Mr. Hariri .
In Beirut , Hezbollah leader Sheik Hassan Nasrallah said the Shi'ite group would stand by Damascus in the wake of the U.N. report .
Iranian state media say Iran has arrested seven people linked to U.S.-funded Radio Farda and has accused some of working for U.S. spy agencies .
The official new agency IRNA says the seven are suspected of provoking protesters during the violent anti-government demonstration last December .
At least eight people died on Ashura , the day of ritual Shi'ite Muslim mourning , after clashes broke out between security forces and opposition supporters .
IRNA did not identify those arrested .
Radio Farda is a Farsi-language broadcast service based in Prague , Czech Republic , and funded by the U.S. government .
The arrests come as Iran is beginning to mark the 31st anniversary of the 1979 Islamic revolution that toppled the U.S.-backed shah .
Opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi have urged their supporters to make their voices heard when Iranians march on February 11 .
Iran 's government has threatened severe reprisals if the protests take place .
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly conflict .
The Serpent had the advantage , and was about to strangle the bird .
A countryman saw them , and running up , loosed the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free .
The Serpent , irritated at the escape of his prey , injected his poison into the drinking horn of the countryman .
The rustic , ignorant of his danger , was about to drink , when the Eagle struck his hand with his wing , and , seizing the drinking horn in his talons , carried it aloft .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez has defended his plan to pass legislation by decree , calling U.S. reservations about his actions unacceptable meddling in Venezuela 's affairs .
Mr. Chavez cursed at U.S. officials in a Sunday broadcast saying Venezuela is exercising the legal authority of a free nation .
On Friday , U.S. State Department spokesman Tom Casey said Mr. Chavez 's plan to rule by decree is an odd proposal in a democratic system .
Venezuela 's legislature is expected this week to give Mr. Chavez the power to rule by decree for 18 months .
During his inauguration address earlier this month , Mr. Chavez said he will seek to amend the constitution to allow unlimited consecutive presidential terms .
Opposition lawmakers accuse the president of moving Venezuela toward a totalitarian form of government that resembles Cuba .
Officials in Afghanistan say a suicide car bomb attack in the southern city of Kandahar has killed at least eight civilians and wounded at least 25 other people .
Police say the car bomber targeted a NATO convoy passing through Kandahar .
Three coalition soldiers and two Afghan policemen were among the wounded in Thursday 's blast .
A NATO spokesman declined to give the nationalities of the soldiers .
Afghan , NATO and U.S. troops are fighting a resurgent Taliban and other rebels who have strongholds in the southern and eastern parts of the country .
I accidentally knocked my television over the other day .
When I turned it on I noticed the screen was cracked , but I put it back together with video tape and now it works fine .
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper says the country will not pull its troops out of Afghanistan , despite opposition calls for debate on the issue .
Mr. Harper said Tuesday , that debating the deployment could weaken the troops and put them in danger .
Canada has 2,300 troops in Kandahar as part of a NATO mission and was originally scheduled to pull them out after a short time .
But military officials say the troops ' return likely will be delayed .
Over the past week , two Canadian soldiers have died in traffic accidents and another was attacked with an axe .
Ten Canadian troops and one diplomat have died in Afghanistan since 2001 .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai says Afghanistan is not a hideout for terrorism , but a victim of it .
During an address Wednesday marking the Muslim festival of Eid al-Adha , Mr. Karzai urged the U.S. and its allies to target terrorists outside of Afghanistan .
The Afghan leader says militants are being trained in sanctuaries and centers outside the country .
He did not name any location , but such comments from Afghan officials usually refer to Pakistan .
Mr. Karzai 's comments come as the United States launches a review of its mission and goals in Afghanistan .
More than 6,000 people have died so far this year , in violence related to a growing Taliban insurgency .
Mr. Karzai has reached out to Taliban leaders , asking those not involved with al-Qaida to lay down their weapons and join the government .
China says Beijing 's already snarled traffic situation is likely to get worse in the run up to the 2008 Olympics .
The official Xinhua news agency said Monday that Beijing registered more than 22,000 new vehicles in the first 18 days of this year .
Xinhua said the capital city already has more than 2,000,000 registered vehicles and more than 4,000,000 people have a drivers license .
The paper said officials predict the number of cars is expected to reach over 3,000,000 by the 2008 Olympic Games .
Cars contribute to choking air pollution in major Chinese cities .
The government has urged people to use public transportation , but officials say it probably will not do much to help chronic traffic congestion .
The top human rights court in Latin America has upheld the conviction of Lori Berenson , a U.S. woman who has been imprisoned in Peru for terrorist collaboration .
President Alejandro Toledo Thursday welcomed the decision of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights .
Berenson had appealed to the court after the Peruvian Supreme Court upheld her conviction .
Her family and lawyers argued that she had not been given a fair trial .
Berenson was arrested in 1995 and accused of involvement in a failed attempt by the rebel Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement to seize Peru 's Congress .
She has maintained her innocence .
The leader of the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan , Islam Karimov , is warning the West not to try to foment revolution in his country .
In an address to parliament in Tashkent on Friday , Mr. Karimov said he has enough power to crush any groups who violate Uzbek law .
Mr. Karimov specifically warned against using the political upheavals in Georgia and Ukraine as a model for Uzbekistan and neighboring Kyrgyzstan .
The revolutions in Georgia and Ukraine brought pro-Western leaders to power .
Uzbekistan has long drawn international criticism for its lack of democratic reforms and a poor human rights record .
European markets opened mixed Wednesday , following gains in Tokyo and Hong Kong .
Markets in London and Paris are up 5 and 6 percent , while Frankfurt is down nearly 2 percent .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index rallied late in the day to close up nearly 7.75 percent , following speculation that Japan 's central bank might cut interest rates .
The Hang Seng in Hong Kong finished about one percent higher .
An announcement by the U.S. central bank on interest rates is expected later Wednesday .
Rate cuts reduce the cost of borrowing and can boost economic activity .
On Tuesday in New York , the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped nearly 11 percent and other U.S. indexes also gained .
The gains recovered some of the losses of previous trading sessions , and follow a series of government efforts to bolster the battered global economy .
A U.S. helicopter has crashed late Friday in eastern Afghanistan , killing all 10 American soldiers on board .
U.S. military officials say the crash late Friday occurred during combat operations in Kunar province .
The CH-47 Chinook went down about 240 kilometers east of the capital , Kabul , not far from the Pakistan border .
Military spokeswoman Lieutenant Tamara Lawrence says an investigation is under way to determine the cause of the crash .
" But it is important to note that the crash was not due to any hostile action or enemy fire , " she said .
She says the bodies of all 10 soldiers have been recovered .
More than 2,000 U.S. and Afghan soldiers have been targeting al-Qaida and Taleban insurgents in Kunar province since last month .
It is one of the largest offensives since the U.S.-led coalition ousted the Taleban from power in 2001 .
An open microphone at Monday 's lunch of Group of Eight leaders recorded President Bush speaking bluntly about the situation in the Middle East .
While he thought he was talking privately with British Prime Minister Tony Blair , the microphone picked up Mr. Bush using an expletive to describe Hezbollah 's attacks on Israel .
Mr. Blair realized the microphone was on and quickly turned it off .
White House spokesman Tony Snow says Mr. Bush rolled his eyes and laughed when he was told his private comments were recorded .
The Turkish parliament has overwhelmingly approved a constitutional amendment to allow the direct election of the president instead of election by parliament .
Thursday 's vote is the second time lawmakers approved the article , which is part of a package of reforms .
If lawmakers approve the entire package , Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer , who has vetoed it once already , must either approve the reforms or call for a referendum .
Turkey 's ruling Islamist-rooted AK Party proposed the reform package after parliament failed to elect its candidate for president , Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul .
Secularists opposed Gul 's candidacy for president , and they have accused the AK Party of attempting to undermine Turkey 's secular order .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said he is committed to Turkey 's secular system .
Mr. Erdogan also called for early parliamentary elections over the political deadlock .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell and United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan met in Washington Thursday , for talks that focused mainly on Iraq .
Speaking to reporters after the meeting , Mr. Annan said U.N. efforts to help Iraq prepare for upcoming elections are " on track . "
Mr. Annan has said he will boost the number of U.N. staffers in Iraq , most of whom he withdrew last year after the bombing of the U.N. headquarters in Baghdad .
Mr. Powell said the United States " has confidence " in the secretary-general , who has come under fire for scandals that plagued the U.N. oil-for-food program for Iraq .
The two men said their talks also covered Afghanistan , Sudan and Haiti .
Mr. Annan meets next with Condoleezza Rice , who President Bush has nominated to be Mr. Powell 's successor .
Later , he speaks to an independent group , the Council on Foreign Relations .
The Israeli military is imposing a three-day closure on the West Bank , banning Palestinians from entering Israel during a Jewish festival .
The military says it began the closure early Monday and will maintain it throughout the holiday of Purim , which ends at midnight Wednesday .
Israel considers Jewish festivals likely times for Palestinian attacks .
The military regularly imposes closures during such holidays .
Meanwhile , a British relief convoy carrying aid for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip arrived Sunday at the Rafah border crossing in Egypt .
The convoy led by British Parliamentarian George Galloway has traveled more than 14,000 kilometers from London over the past three weeks to reach the Palestinian territory .
It is unclear whether Egyptian authorities will allow the food and medical aid to pass into the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip , which was crippled by Israel 's recent military offensive .
The body of a young Brazilian man has arrived in Brazil six days after he was gunned down by London police who mistook him for a terror suspect .
The remains of Jean Charles de Menezes arrived Thursday at an airport in his home state of Minas Gerais .
The Brazilian Air Force then flew his casket to Gobernador Valadares , where mourners gathered to pay their respects .
The 27-year-old electrician 's funeral is to be held on Friday .
Earlier this week , a group of people mostly linked to leftist parties and movements gathered outside the British embassy in Brazil to protest the killing .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has publicly apologized and pledged to investigate the shooting incident .
Protesters in Venezuela have clashed with police as thousands demonstrated against constitutional reforms that some critics say will turn the country into an authoritarian state .
Venezuelan police fired tear gas Tuesday at the student-led demonstrators after clashes broke out in Caracas .
The proposed amendments include eliminating presidential term limits , detaining citizens without charge during national emergencies , and restricting the public 's access to information during an emergency .
Leaders of Venezuela 's Roman Catholic Church are opposed to the changes , saying they amount to the concentration of power in the president 's hands .
Human rights groups , including Human Rights Watch and Reporters Without Borders , have also condemned the proposed constitutional amendments .
Venezuela 's legislature plans to finalize the language for the 58 amendments by the end of this month , and a national vote on the changes is expected in December .
Lebanon has asked foreign experts to help in the investigation of the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Judiciary officials say Swiss DNA and explosives experts will be helping with the probe into Monday 's car bombing in Beirut that killed Mr. Hariri and at least 14 others .
Mr. Hariri was laid to rest at a Beirut mosque Wednesday after an emotional and politically charged funeral .
Hundreds of thousands of mourners jammed the city for the funeral .
Many mourners chanted anti-Syrian slogans .
Lebanese opposition politicians blamed the killing on Syria , the main power broker in Lebanon .
Damascus insists it had no role in the murder .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State William Burns has called for the withdrawal of Syria 's 14,000 troops from Lebanon .
Washington recalled its ambassador to Syria earlier this week .
The husband of Iraqi aid worker Margaret Hassan has asked Islamic militants to return his wife 's body to him so that she can , in his words , rest in peace .
Tahseen Hassan spoke Wednesday after the al-Jazeera television network obtained a video that appears to show the murder of Mrs. Hassan .
Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair called the apparent killing of the British-born humanitarian an abhorrent act .
Poul Nielsen , A top European Union Development official , said her abduction and killing make it almost impossible for relief agencies to continue working in Iraq .
Mrs. Hassan spent 30 years caring for Iraq 's poorest citizens , particularly children .
She was the head of the CARE International humanitarian group in Iraq , and a vocal opponent of the U.S.-led invasion .
Her abduction last month was widely condemned by Iraqi civilians and Islamic groups .
Mexican authorities say they have found the second flight data recorder from the airplane crash that killed Interior Minister Juan Camilo Mourino .
Transportation Minister Luis Tellez says Thursday that investigators found the " black box " containing voice recordings of the crew .
The data recorder with navigation information was recovered on Wednesday .
Tellez says both boxes will be examined in the United States .
The small government plane crashed Tuesday during evening rush hour near Mexico 's City 's main avenue , Paseo de la Reforma .
Among those killed was the former prosecutor for drug crimes , Jose Luis Santiago Vasconcelos , and at least a dozen other people in the aircraft and on the ground .
Interior Minister Mourino had led a government campaign against mounting violence by drug cartels .
The violence has killed about 4,000 people this year , including several top officials .
The U.S. military says two American pilots were killed in a military helicopter crash in northern Iraq , which was likely caused by hostile fire .
A U.S. commander in Iraq , Lieutenant General John Vines , said the aircraft was lost near Mosul , and indicators point to hostile fire as the cause of the crash .
Thursday , the U.S. military predicted an increase in insurgent attacks as the newly elected Iraqi government forms , and final results from last month 's general elections are released .
Brigadier-General Don Alston said insurgents may use Iraq 's transition to a new government as an opportunity to try to derail the democratic process .
The assembly rewriting Ecuador 's constitution is meeting Thursday to debate the new charter that would grant President Rafael Correa broad powers .
The assembly has been working on the changes since November .
If the new constitution is approved , voters will decide in September whether to adopt it .
President Correa has said the constitution should be changed to limit the power of Ecuador 's major political parties .
The proposed constitution also would allow Mr. Correa to seek re-election to a new four-year term .
Separately , it would transfer to the president functions currently performed by the Central Bank .
Earlier this week , the Constitutional Assembly announced that the Central Bank president , Robert Andrade , resigned but gave no reason for his decision .
China 's Agriculture Ministry has reported two new outbreaks of bird flu among poultry in the northwestern Xinjiang region and the central province of Hunan .
The ministry said Tuesday , that tens of thousands of birds were culled in both infected areas .
China has confirmed three cases of bird flu in humans .
Elsewhere , the Asian Development Bank has announced a $ 30 million grant for Vietnam , Cambodia and Laos to help contain the spread of bird flu and other diseases .
The Manila-based bank says the grant will be funded in conjunction with the World Health Organization .
And in several Australian cities Tuesday , emergency workers began an exercise to test the government 's response to a simulated outbreak of bird flu .
About 1,000 people are expected to participate in the three-day drill .
U.S. military officials say the United States will dispatch up to 1,500 Marines and a ship carrying 20 helicopters to Sri Lanka to help relief efforts in areas devastated by last Sunday 's tsunami .
A U.S. spokesman in Colombo said the first contingent of 200 Marines will arrive in Sri Lanka shortly from a base in Okinawa , Japan .
He said the Marines will operate from an offshore platform south of the port city of Galle .
Meanwhile , flash floods in eastern Sri Lanka are hampering relief efforts .
Local officials say heavy rains forced the evacuation of thousands of people already affected by the tsunami .
Aid convoys continue to have difficulty reaching some of the hardest-hit areas .
Nearly one million Sri Lankans have been displaced and are living in temporary camps .
The nationwide death toll is approaching 29,000 .
Afghan officials say a suicide blast has killed at least 10 people in a city in central Uruzgan province during a visit by the U.S. ambassador .
Police say the attacker detonated explosives strapped to his body near the governor 's headquarters in the city of Tarin Kot .
Some 50 people were wounded in the attack , but the ambassador , Ronald Neumann and other U.S. officials were unhurt .
Shortly after the blast , local news agencies said a Taleban spokesman phoned claiming responsibility for the attack .
Earlier this week , a suicide car bomber wounded an American soldier and two other people in southern Afghanistan .
This week 's attacks are the latest in an upsurge in attacks by suspected Taleban supporters in southern and central Afghanistan , where more than 1,500 people were killed in insurgent-related violence last year .
Members of the U.S. Senate are demanding that oil companies take steps to bring down high gasoline and heating oil prices being paid by U.S. consumers .
The demands came Wednesday as a Senate committee questioned top executives from five major oil companies .
The companies recently reported record profits as the price of crude oil hit $ 70 a barrel and gasoline prices soared after supply disruptions caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
Republican Senator Pete Domenici said many Americans believe the companies are exploiting current conditions to reap excess profits .
The executives defended their profits , saying most of the money is re-invested into energy exploration projects .
They cautioned senators against imposing government measures to lower prices , saying market forces will lead to reasonable prices .
Tropical Storm Katrina has been upgraded to a hurricane as it bears down on the southeastern U.S. state of Florida , on a path toward cities along the Atlantic coast .
At last report , the 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season was 40 kilometers east-northeast of Fort Lauderdale , a popular destination for tourists .
Katrina had winds of 120 kilometers per hour .
Many Florida residents are stocking up on gasoline , water and other supplies in preparation for the storm , which formed Wednesday over the Bahamas .
Katrina is expected to make landfall late Thursday or early Friday .
Forecasters warn the storm could dump several centimeters of rain in spots as it moves over the state toward the Gulf of Mexico .
The work of Cuban artists is finding an outlet in Miami , despite objections from some Cuban Americans who believe some of the artwork portrays the communist nation in a positive light .
A small number of fledgling galleries showcasing art from the island have appeared in the city 's Little Havana district - a hotbed of anti-Castro sentiment .
The owner of one of the galleries says she has faced criticism but continues traveling to the island to buy paintings , photographs and sculptures to showcase in her gallery .
Steve Mort reports from Miami .
Indian police say 11 people , including nine soldiers , have been killed in a landmine explosion in India-controlled Kashmir .
Authorities said Sunday a jeep carrying the soldiers was blown apart when it ran over the landmine late Saturday in Pulwama , south of Kashmir 's summer capital , Srinagar .
Kashmir 's pro-Pakistan rebel group Hizbul Mujahedin claimed responsibility for the attack .
In a separate incident early Sunday in the disputed Himalayan region , an army spokesman says Indian troops shot dead three militants who had taken shelter in a mosque .
Guerrilla violence has increased in Kashmir in recent weeks .
Violence in the region has claimed at least 30,000 lives since the start of a revolt against India in 1989 .
India blames neighboring Pakistan for supporting the militants - a claim Islamabad denies .
The Indian government 's key communist allies have rejected a landmark U.S.-India nuclear deal , criticizing it for promoting U.S. influence .
In a statement Tuesday , India 's four-party communist alliance said it can not accept the civilian nuclear agreement between India and the United States and called on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh not to pursue it .
Hindu nationalists have also rejected the terms of the accord .
Reversing 30 years of U.S. non-proliferation nuclear policy with India , the controversial agreement would give India access to U.S. nuclear fuel and equipment in exchange for inspections of its civilian nuclear reactors .
The U.S. Congress must approve the deal before it can take effect , but it does not require approval by the Indian parliament .
India 's prime minister and Cabinet are empowered to sign treaties without parliamentary backing .
But some Indian lawmakers are trying to make international agreements subject to parliamentary approval .
The U.S. Air Force says it will send 300 airmen home from Iraq and Afghanistan to help their families cope with emergencies from devastating Hurricane Katrina .
A military spokesman said Saturday the airmen - all based at Keesler Air Base in Biloxi , Mississippi - would begin flying home over the next two weeks .
The group includes personnel who were scheduled to rotate home in September and others whose deployments would be cut short .
Hurricane Katrina did serious damage to Keesler Air Base , wiping out much of its housing and infrastructure .
As Americans remember Martin Luther King , Junior Monday , his family remains divided over the future of his memorial center in Atlanta .
Two of Reverend King 's four children favor selling the King Center to the U.S. National Park Service .
But another son and daughter want the center to remain in control of the King family .
King 's widow , Coretta Scott King , who is recovering from a stroke , relinquished control of the center years ago .
Son Martin Luther King said selling the center would sell his father 's legacy and barter his mother 's vision .
The center features programs and services on Reverend King 's legacy and racial equality , but has fallen into debt and disrepair over the years .
The Pentagon says it has a well planned schedule to improve the armor of military vehicles in Iraq .
In a briefing Thursday , Lieutenant General Steven Whitcomb said the military had enough resources and was installing additional armor on military vehicles already in Iraq and Kuwait .
He acknowledged , however , the increased armor would not protect troops from improvised explosive devices detonated from underneath the vehicles .
General Whitcomb stressed that increasing the armor on vehicles is just one part of the Army 's strategy to protect troops .
He said a high priority is finding and stopping the insurgents from building the explosive devices .
The briefing comes one day after Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , visiting troops in Kuwait , was asked by servicemembers why their vehicles were not adequately protected .
Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century , Macau was the first European settlement in the Far East .
Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987 , Macau became the Macau Special Administrative Region ( SAR ) of the People 's Republic of China on 20 December 1999 .
In this agreement , China promised that , under its " one country , two systems " formula , China 's socialist economic system would not be practiced in Macau , and that Macau would enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years .
Police in northwestern Pakistan say a suicide bomber detonated his explosives-laden vehicle near a checkpoint Wednesday , wounding four soldiers .
Only the attacker was killed in this blast in the town of Bannu , in volatile North West Frontier province .
Indonesian health officials say seven people from a village in northern Sumatra are being treated for what doctors suspect may be bird flu .
The villagers come from the same district where bird flu killed seven members of an extended family in May .
Officials say the suspected new cases include two young siblings and a neighbor 's baby .
They have been admitted to a hospital in the city of Medan .
Local authorities are carrying out tests on the seven villagers to determine whether they have the dangerous H5N1 strain of the virus .
The previous cluster of bird flu deaths in northern Sumatra was the largest of its kind since the global outbreak began , and raised concerns about human-to-human transmission of the virus .
Indonesia has confirmed 42 deaths from bird flu , tying Vietnam for the world 's highest number of fatalities .
The Principality of Liechtenstein was established within the Holy Roman Empire in 1719 .
Occupied by both French and Russian troops during the Napoleonic wars , it became a sovereign state in 1806 and joined the Germanic Confederation in 1815 .
Liechtenstein became fully independent in 1866 when the Confederation dissolved .
Until the end of World War I , it was closely tied to Austria , but the economic devastation caused by that conflict forced Liechtenstein to enter into a customs and monetary union with Switzerland .
Since World War II ( in which Liechtenstein remained neutral ) , the country 's low taxes have spurred outstanding economic growth .
In 2000 , shortcomings in banking regulatory oversight resulted in concerns about the use of financial institutions for money laundering .
However , Liechtenstein implemented anti-money-laundering legislation and a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty with the US that went into effect in 2003 .
A growing number of Americans are finding the best way to stretch a dollar is to use it sparingly .
Many are turning to the practice of bartering - or trading goods and services without exchanging money .
It 's a practice that 's quickly catching on during these tough economic times .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Oil prices rose above $ 50 a barrel Friday , rebounding from a 3.5 year low as dealers sought to stock up on cheaper oil .
Oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose to $ 50.65 , up from about $ 49 on Thursday .
Brent Crude , which trades in London and prices two-thirds of the world 's crude , rose to $ 49.70 .
Key benchmarks for crude oil are down almost two-thirds since a July high of more than $ 147 .
Bloomberg financial news service says sales also increased on speculation that oil-producing OPEC countries will cut production levels when they meet later this month in Cairo .
Last month , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries slashed its official oil output quota by about 1.5 million barrels a day .
Some analysts say prices will continue to decline in 2009 as the economic slowdown continues .
The Kenyan government is lambasting U.S. Senator Barack Obama , one day after the lawmaker concluded a visit to his late father 's homeland .
A government spokesman in Nairobi Thursday said Obama 's criticisms of Kenyan politics show the lawmaker is " very poorly informed . "
In speeches to adoring crowds , Obama harshly criticized Kenyan officials for engaging in graft and political divisiveness based on ethnicity .
He said transparent government is needed to encourage Kenya 's economic growth .
Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki pledged to end rampant corruption when he came to power in 2002 , but allegations of graft continue to plague the government .
Obama is a Democratic Party lawmaker representing the midwestern U.S. state of Illinois .
He visited the east African nation during a two-week tour of Africa , and was embraced by many Kenyans as a native son .
Obama 's father was born and worked as an economist in Kenya .
The Vatican says Pope John Paul 's body will lie in state at St. Peter 's Basilica beginning Monday afternoon at the earliest .
Nine days of official mourning began Sunday at the Vatican .
The pope 's body is to be transferred from the papal apartment , where he died , to prepare it to lie in state .
A number of world leaders are expected to attend the pope 's funeral later this week .
Roman Catholic tradition says the funeral and burial must be held between the fourth and sixth day after death .
Traditionally a pope 's body is buried in a crypt beneath St. Peter 's Basilica .
However , news media reports have mentioned that John Paul might have chosen to be buried in his native Poland .
British newspapers say Britain 's terrorist attack threat level has been secretly lowered for the first time since the July 7 bombings in London .
The Sunday Telegraph and Sunday Times say the decision to lower the security threat level was made Thursday because intelligence agencies had no specific information on possible attacks .
Meanwhile , London police chief Ian Blair says he did not know his officers had killed an innocent Brazilian man at a subway station last month until a full day after the shooting incident .
British authorities have come under increasing criticism for the July 22 killing as conflicting reports emerge about circumstances leading up to the shooting of 27-year-old Jean-Charles de Menezes .
Police wrongly suspected the man was a suicide bomber .
Britain 's Home Secretary Charles Clarke has expressed confidence in the way police are handling the investigation .
Lebanon 's parliament has postponed the vote for a new president for the eighth time .
Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri issued a statement Monday , saying the election scheduled for Tuesday has been postponed until December 17 .
The delay gives rival political leaders more time to reach a consensus .
The ruling coalition and opposition lawmakers are divided on several issues , including how to amend the constitution to enable army chief General Michel Suleiman to be elected .
Lebanon has been without a president since November 23 , when pro-Syrian Emile Lahoud 's term ended .
General Suleiman is seen as a neutral figure who could resolve the conflict between the Western-backed majority and the pro-Syrian opposition .
U.S. weather forecasters say Hurricane Stan has slammed into Mexico 's Gulf Coast , hitting the eastern state of Veracruz with high winds and heavy rain .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center said Tuesday the storm is now moving southwest with maximum sustained winds of 130 kilometers an hour .
Forecasters said the storm is centered about 140 minutes southeast of the port city of Veracruz .
The Mexican government had earlier issued a hurricane warning from Palma Sola in the south to Chilitepic in the east .
Mexico 's state oil monopoly Pemex - a major oil supplier to the United States - says it has evacuated 270 workers from five oil platforms in the Gulf of Mexico .
Stan dumped heavy rains over Central America last week , causing flooding and mudslides that killed at least 31 people in El Salvador and four others in neighboring Guatemala .
Israeli President Moshe Katsav has shaken hands with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad as both attended the funeral of Pope John Paul II in Rome .
Israel Radio reports Iranian-born President Katsav also spoke in his native Farsi with Iranian President Mohammad Khatami .
The radio says the two spoke about the Iranian town where they were both born .
Syria is officially at war with Israel and Iran does not recognize the Jewish state .
Israel Radio says after the funeral , the Syrian leader approached the Israeli president for a second time and again shook his hand .
Syria has recently made peace overtures to Israel , but Israeli officials have demanded that Syria first pull out of Lebanon and stop its support of radical Palestinian groups .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says Baghdad has ordered light military equipment from China because the United States is unable to provide them and is too slow to deliver arms shipments .
Mr. Talabani told the Washington Post Wednesday that the weapons , worth $ 100 million , are intended for Iraq 's police force .
He said U.S. factories do not have the capacity to meet Baghdad 's requirements .
Mr. Talabani , who was in Washington for talks with President Bush , also called for faster deliveries of U.S. weapons to strengthen the Iraqi army .
U.S. officials have acknowledged that Washington faced problems delivering everything Iraq needed .
But they also point out that Iraqi security forces have been unable to account for nearly 200,000 U.S. supplied weapons .
It is feared that many of those weapons might have gone to various insurgent and militia groups seeking to destabilize Iraq and target U.S. troops .
North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in 1918 .
The British , who had set up a protectorate area around the southern port of Aden in the 19th century , withdrew in 1967 from what became South Yemen .
Three years later , the southern government adopted a Marxist orientation .
The massive exodus of hundreds of thousands of Yemenis from the south to the north contributed to two decades of hostility between the states .
The two countries were formally unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990 .
A southern secessionist movement in 1994 was quickly subdued .
In 2000 , Saudi Arabia and Yemen agreed to a delimitation of their border .
Fighting in the northwest between the government and Huthi rebels , a group seeking a return to traditional Zaydi Islam , began in 2004 and has since resulted in seven rounds of fighting - the last ended in early 2010 with a tentative ceasefire .
The southern secessionist movement was revitalized in 2008 when a popular socioeconomic protest movement initiated the prior year took on political goals including secession .
Public rallies in Sana'a against President SALIH - inspired by similar demonstrations in Tunisia and Egypt - slowly built momentum starting in late January 2011 fueled by complaints over high unemployment , poor economic conditions , and corruption .
By the following month , some protests had resulted in violence , and the demonstrations had spread to other major cities .
By March the opposition had hardened its demands and was unifying behind calls for SALIH 's immediate ouster .
Media reports indicated that as many as 100 protesters had been killed and many more injured amid the protests .
Domestic and international efforts to mediate a resolution to the political crisis had not yielded a deal as of mid April .
Several members of Iran 's parliament have told President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to pick experienced members for his Cabinet .
Mr. Ahmadinejad will submit his new cabinet line-up next week , and he has vowed to appoint more young people .
Iranian state media report that lawmakers are urging Mr. Ahmadinejad to make wise selections of experienced ministers if he is to win a vote of confidence in parliament .
The president 's reelection on June 12 set off a political crisis in Iran .
Iranian authorities have arrested thousands of demonstrators who say the presidential vote was rigged .
Influential cleric and former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani this week canceled his turn to lead Friday prayers in an effort to avoid further unrest .
Opposition supporters staged demonstrations during Rafsanjani 's most recent sermon .
Rafsanjani 's office released a statement saying the cleric wanted to avoid any possible clashes resulting from the post-election fall out .
The economy is heavily dependent on the extraction and processing of minerals for export .
Mining accounts for 8 % of GDP , but provides more than 50 % of foreign exchange earnings .
Rich alluvial diamond deposits make Namibia a primary source for gem-quality diamonds .
Namibia is the world 's fourth-largest producer of uranium .
It also produces large quantities of zinc and is a small producer of gold and other minerals .
The mining sector employs only about 3 % of the population while about 35-40 % of the population depends on subsistence agriculture for its livelihood .
Namibia normally imports about 50 % of its cereal requirements ; in drought years food shortages are a major problem in rural areas .
A high per capita GDP , relative to the region , hides one of the world 's most unequal income distributions , as shown by Namibia 's 70.7 GINI coefficient .
The Namibian economy is closely linked to South Africa with the Namibian dollar pegged one-to-one to the South African rand .
Until 2010 , Namibia drew 40 % of its budget revenues from the Southern African Customs Union ( SACU ) .
Increased payments from SACU put Namibia 's budget into surplus in 2007 for the first time since independence .
SACU allotments to Namibia increased in 2009 , but will drop for 2010 and 2011 because South Africa went into recession during the global economic crisis , reducing overall SACU income .
Increased fish production and mining of zinc , copper , and uranium spurred growth in 2003 - 08 , but growth in recent years was undercut by poor fish catches , a dramatic decline in demand for diamonds , higher costs of producing metals , and the global recession .
A rebound in diamond and uranium prices in 2010 provided a significant boost to Namibia 's mining sector .
Copper mines , which closed in 2008 , are slated to reopen in 2011 .
Crude oil prices have closed at a record high level in New York in part because of the market 's uncertainty about Iranian policies following that country 's presidential election .
Crude oil closed at $ 60.45 a barrel Monday on the New York Mercantile Exchange after hitting a high of $ 60.95 earlier in the day .
New York prices hit a record of 59.85 dollars last Thursday .
Market analysts cited investor concerns about a possible worsening of U.S.-Iranian tensions following the election of conservative Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as president last Friday .
Market watchers also speculate that oil prices keep climbing because of worries that refineries will struggle to meet a likely increase in demand .
A powerful bomb has ripped through a section of the Philippine House of Representatives in Manila , killing at least two people and injuring at least nine others .
The blast occurred in the south wing of the building Tuesday evening local time , as the House was ending its session .
Emergency crews rushed to the scene , and police have sealed off streets around the building , in the Quezon City area .
One of those killed was a Philippine lawmaker .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing .
Tens of thousands of people in insurgency-plagued Indian Kashmir voted Saturday in the territory 's first local elections in a quarter-century .
Witnesses say large numbers of voters turned out despite freezing weather and the threat of rebel attacks .
Gunmen killed one candidate and wounded two others Friday , but no violence was reported once voting began .
More than 96,000 people were eligible to cast ballots today in two districts bordering the portion of Kashmir administered by Pakistan .
Voting for mayors and town council members in other districts will take place during the next two weeks .
Militants who want to drive India out of Kashmir called for a boycott of the election , which they contend is an attempt by New Delhi to show that Kashmir is a legitimate part of India .
A court in central Russia has convicted a scientist on charges of illegally selling technology abroad that authorities say could be used in weapons .
The Bashkortostan Supreme Court sentenced academic Oskar Kaibyshev Tuesday to a six-year suspended prison term .
It also fined him $ 130,000 and barred him from heading research teams for the next three years .
The 67-year-old Kaibyshev has steadfastly maintained his innocence .
He claimed the technology developed at a research institute that he headed had already been patented in the United States and other countries .
Defense lawyers say they will appeal .
Russia 's Interfax news agency quotes veteran human rights activist Lyudmila Alekseyeva as saying she is grateful for Kaibyshev 's suspended sentence .
However , she called the verdict " outrageous . "
She said she believes that Russian security officials framed the scientist .
The city of Fort Wayne in the midwestern state of Indiana is home to one of the largest Burmese immigrant and refugee communities in the United States .
Now , the community is struggling to deal with the aftermath of a devastating cyclone that has affected most of their families in Burma .
VOA 's Kane Farabaugh traveled to Fort Wayne .
He reports that the biggest challenge for many Burmese in the United States is learning the fate of their loved ones .
A spokesman for the International Security Assistance Force says NATO and Afghan forces have killed about 50 Taleban insurgents in an operation in southern Afghanistan .
The NATO spokesman said there were no casualties among NATO and Afghan troops .
The operation began last week in two districts ( Panjwayi and Zhari ) of Kandahar province .
The spokesman said so far , alliance forces have cleared three villages of Taleban insurgents .
In mid-September , NATO forces carried out another operation in the same area , during which a large number of Taleban were reported killed .
The Taleban are mostly active in southern and eastern parts of Afghanistan , close to the border with Pakistan .
Violence tied to the insurgency has killed at least 4,000 people in 2006 .
The evolution of what is today the European Union ( EU ) from a regional economic agreement among six neighboring states in 1951 to today 's hybrid intergovernmental and supranational organization of 27 countries across the European continent stands as an unprecedented phenomenon in the annals of history .
Dynastic unions for territorial consolidation were long the norm in Europe ; on a few occasions even country-level unions were arranged - the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and the Austro-Hungarian Empire were examples .
But for such a large number of nation-states to cede some of their sovereignty to an overarching entity is unique .
A new poll in Kenya indicates more than 60 percent of Kenyans will vote in favor of a new constitution next month .
The poll shows 62 percent of voters want a new constitution , with 20 percent opposed .
Of those in favor of the new constitution , most said it needs some amendments .
The random survey of 3,000 Kenyans ( by Strategic Research ) also found 18 percent of voters are still undecided .
The proposed constitution grew out of the 2008 power-sharing deal between President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga after a disputed election triggered riots and ethnic violence across Kenya .
Some 1,300 people were killed before the violence was brought under control .
Venezuela lawmakers have given preliminary approval for a referendum to scrap presidential term limits .
The National Assembly debated the constitutional amendment Thursday .
It would allow President Hugo Chavez to run for re-election in 2012 and beyond .
Election officials said the referendum on the amendment could be held in March if the lawmakers give their approval on the second reading of the draft amendment in January .
Government officials said Chavez supporters collected nearly five million signatures to symbolically support the amendment sought by the socialist leader .
Last year , Venezuelans narrowly rejected a broad package of constitutional amendments that lifted term limits for the presidency .
Mr. Chavez has asked voters to change Venezuela 's constitution to move the country toward what he called 21st century socialism .
A man says he was paid to throw a grenade at a mosque during Friday prayers in Indian Kashmir , an attack that killed five people , including two young girls .
Local residents captured Ghulam Nadi Mir immediately after the attack in the village of Tahab and turned him over to police .
He told reporters Saturday he was paid $ 20 to throw the grenade .
Police suspect the incident involved the militant group Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen , but the group denied any involvement .
The region has been rocked by a series of grenade attacks by separatist militants in recent months .
Interim Iraqi Prime Minister Iyad Allawi says he will more than double the size of Iraq 's army to 150,000 troops , in the face of a deadly insurgency that has killed more than 100 Iraqis over the past week alone .
In Baghdad , Mr. Allawi said Tuesday he has allocated $ 2.2 billion in this year 's budget to expand the army and upgrade its weaponry .
Meanwhile , violence across Iraq continues .
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terrorist network claimed responsibility for a car bomb attack in Tikrit that killed six policemen and wounded several others .
In an area known as the " triangle of death " south of Baghdad , a roadside bomb exploded , killing at least seven people in a passing minibus .
And following an explosion , firefighters battled a pipeline fire north of the capital .
President Bush met at the White House Monday with Burmese human rights activist Charm Tong .
In an interview with Voice of America 's Burmese service , Charm Tong said she expressed her concerns to President Bush about what she called the desperate human rights situation in Burma -- including forced labor and extra judicial killings .
Charm Tong said the president was very concerned and asked what the United States could do to help .
Charm Tong , a 23-year-old ethnic Shan , fled to Thailand as a small child to escape ethnic persecution in Burma .
She has co-founded a network of human rights monitors on the Thai-Burmese border and established a school for other Shan refugees .
Charm Tong was among four Burmese women nominated this year for the Nobel Peace Prize and was awarded the Reebok Human Rights Award given to young people who risk personal safety to fight injustice .
An Indonesian court has sentenced two Australian men to death by firing squad for leading a drug smuggling ring on the Indonesian island of Bali .
The district court in Bali 's provincial capital , Denpasar , said Tuesday that Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were the masterminds of the so-called Bali Nine .
The same court also sentenced Michael Czugaj and Martin Stephens to life in prison Tuesday for their part in the drug smuggling operation .
Two others , Renae Lawrence and Scott Rush , were handed the same sentence on Monday .
The nine Australians were arrested in April of last year for allegedly trying to smuggle more than eight kilograms of heroin from Bali to Australia .
The cases are among a series of arrests in Indonesia involving Australians accused of smuggling illegal drugs .
A basketball game between China and visiting Puerto Rico deteriorated into a brawl Friday night in an incident state media termed a bad example by the future Olympic hosts .
The fighting erupted at Beijing Capital Gymnasium when two Chinese players charged off the bench after seeing teammate Yi Jianlian fouled hard by Puerto Rican center Manuel Narvaez .
The bad feelings spilled into the stands , where 3,000 home fans hurled insults and missiles .
Officials ended the game as the visitors fled to the locker room , one shielding his head with a plastic chair .
China 's basketball association deplored the violence as setting a poor example three years before Beijing hosts the summer Olympics .
The association says it will adopt measures to prevent such violence in the future .
The United Nations reports heavy fighting between Ugandan rebels and a joint U.N.-Congolese force in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
The U.N. mission in Congo says 35 Ugandan rebels have been killed , along with three Congolese government troops and an Indian U.N. peacekeeping soldier .
The U.N.-Congolese force attacked the rebels Saturday south of Beni in North Kivu province .
U.N. officials say the offensive was launched after the rebels , known as the Allied Democratic Forces , rejected repeated attempts to negotiate their return to Uganda .
This is the second U.N.-Congolese offensive against militias in the region since last week 's constitutional referendum .
The troops hope to assert government control in areas dominated by foreign-backed rebels or local militias .
U.N. and Congolese troops captured the town of Nioka from ethnic Lendu rebels on Saturday .
Suspected militants in Pakistan have blown up 36 oil tankers that supply fuel to U.S.-led forces in neighboring Afghanistan .
Pakistani officials Monday said the attackers set off two bombs near the trucks , triggering fires and explosions Sunday night in the Khyber tribal district .
At least 70 people were wounded .
More than 80 oil tankers bound for Afghanistan were parked in the area when the explosion happened .
No one has claimed responsibility .
The world economy 's downturn is having contrary effects on two leading U.S. food retailers .
Shares in Starbucks , a chain of pricey coffee shops , fell more than three percent Tuesday , one day after it reported a 97 percent drop in profits in the 4th quarter of this year .
The value of Starbucks ' shares has been falling sharply in recent months .
Earlier this year , the Seattle , Washington-based company cut 1,000 jobs , shut 600 stores in the United States , and closed another 61 stores in Australia .
While coffee-drinkers are avoiding Starbucks ' expensive products , budget hamburgers are selling briskly .
McDonald 's announced Monday that its global sales jumped 8.2 percent in October .
McDonald 's sales rose more than five percent in the United States , nearly 10 percent in Europe and more than 11 percent in the Asia-Pacific , Middle East and Africa .
Organizers have unveiled the route for this year 's Dakar Rally .
It 's a shorter , but more intense course that starts in Barcelona , Spain December 31 .
The race covers 8,956 kilometers in 16 stages , 2,000 kilometers shorter than last year 's race .
However , the rally has several sand dune crossings in succession , including six stages in Mauritania .
The race starts with a four-kilometer special stage around Barcelona and then heads to Granada before passing into Morocco , Mauritania , Mali , and ending in Senegal January 16 .
In the motorcycle section , no rider will wear the number-one jersey out of respect for the late Richard Sainct , a three-time Dakar Rally champion who was killed in September during the Rally of the Pharaohs in Egypt .
A FOX , seeing some sour grapes hanging within an inch of his nose , and being unwilling to admit that there was anything he would not eat , solemnly declared that they were out of his reach .
SOME DOGS , finding the skin of a lion , began to tear it in pieces with their teeth .
A Fox , seeing them , said , " If this lion were alive , you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than your teeth . "
It is easy to kick a man that is down .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi says he will push ahead with plans to privatize Japan 's postal service , despite growing resistance from some members of his ruling party .
With more than $ 3 trillion in deposits and insurance assets , Japan Post is the world 's biggest bank , and its privatization is the main pillar of the prime minister 's controversial economic reform program .
As a new session of Parliament opened Friday , Mr. Koizumi told the lawmakers he intends to split the postal service 's mail delivery , insurance and savings systems into four separate businesses .
Many conservative lawmakers in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party oppose privatization , in part because this could lead to closure of small post offices in rural areas , a traditional stronghold of the party .
The U.S. military says coalition forces have discovered a suspected insurgent chemical production facility and storage site in northern Iraq .
A senior military official says the chemicals collected at the site in Mosul are being analyzed to determine the type and quantity produced .
But another official close to the investigation told VOA 's Baghdad correspondent that the materials are " precursor chemicals commonly associated with the production of narcotics . "
In a statement earlier Saturday , the military said the raid , conducted Tuesday , was based on intelligence obtained during interrogation of detainees .
An investigation is continuing to determine which terrorist or insurgent group built and operated the covert facility .
A top Iranian lawmaker says Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei played a role in parliament 's approval Thursday of nominees for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's Cabinet .
Deputy speaker Mohammad Reza Bahonar said Friday the supreme leader had privately urged lawmakers to approve the nominees .
Bahonar says at least eight of the nominees may have been rejected if Mr. Khamenei had not intervened .
Parliament approved 18 nominees put forward by President Ahmadinejad for his 21-member Cabinet , including Ahmad Vahidi , a defense minister , accused of involvement in a 1994 bombing in Argentina .
Lawmakers also approved Iran 's first female Cabinet member Marzieh Vahid Dastjerdi since the 1979 Islamic Revolution .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was re-elected in a controversial vote in June .
Government opponents say the election was fraudulent , and it set off days of street demonstrations .
Thousands of Iranians were arrested for protesting the outcome of the election .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Rangel has dismissed U.S. concerns over his country 's plan to buy 100,000 Russian-made rifles .
Mr. Rangel said Tuesday Venezuela is buying the rifles to strengthen its national defense , and that the purchase should not concern Washington .
His remarks were in response to recent comments by Roger Noriega , Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs , expressing concern that the weapons could wind up in the hands of criminal groups .
Relations between the United States and Venezuela have been strained in recent years .
Washington has criticized Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez ' populist policies and his country 's close relationship with Cuba .
President Chavez has accused the United States of backing attempts to oust him , including a 2002 coup which briefly removed him from power .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva says he plans to work for democracy in Cuba and against the U.S. economic embargo on the communist-run island .
President da Silva made the comment following a meeting in Rome with Cuban National Assembly speaker Ricardo Alarcon .
The two officials met at Brazil 's embassy in Rome Friday after attending the funeral of Pope John Paul II .
Mr. da Silva said his country must help in the fight against the U.S. economic embargo , saying that Brazil has a chance to help restore normal relations for Cuba .
Washington has consistently defended the four-decade-long embargo against Cuba , saying it is a necessary part of the strategy to liberate the island from Fidel Castro .
The northeastern U.S. state of Connecticut has given its social services agencies permission to supply thousands of needy families with discounted heating oil from a Venezuelan-owned oil company .
The state 's Attorney General Richard Blumenthal cautioned that the deal is politically sensitive , given Venezuela 's tense relationship with the United States , but he ruled that the program is legal .
Blumenthal also criticized the U.S. Congress for this year 's controversial cuts to federal heating assistance to the poor , saying that is what made outside help necessary .
Venezuela has already delivered oil through Citgo , its U.S. subsidiary , to communities in seven other U.S. states .
The oil is sold at a 40 percent discount to low income families .
Critics of the program say Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is trying to embarrass President Bush and build support for himself .
Norwegian ski jumper Roar Ljoekelsoey has successfully defended his title at the Ski Flying World Championships in Bad Mitterndorf , Austria .
Ljoekelsoey finished with two faultless jumps of 190 and 207.5 meters for a total of 788 points .
Austrian Andreas Widhoelzl was second ( 762.4 points ) with compatriot Thomas Morgenstern third ( 752.2 points ) .
The Norwegian also won the gold medal at the last World Championships in Planica , Slovenia , two years ago .
For Widhoelzl , Saturday 's result was his second world silver medal - he also finished second in 2000 .
The team event is scheduled for Sunday .
American Idol Thursday , March 8 narrowed the field of contestants to 12 .
Viewers submitted 37 million phone calls and text messages , eliminating Antonella Barba , Jared Cotter , Jason " Sundance " Head , and Sabrina Sloan .
Six men and six women now vie for a record contract .
Now in its sixth season , American Idol continues to dominate U.S. television ratings , attracting between 27 and 37 million viewers a week .
The winner will be announced May 23 .
South African President Thabo Mbeki is meeting with Ivory Coast 's rebel leaders to discuss the latest peace initiatives .
Tens of thousands of people with banners demanding that President Laurent Gbagbo quit welcomed Mr. Mebki as he arrived in the northern rebel-held stronghold of Bouake Sunday .
Mr. Mebki will try to persuade the rebels to accept a plan to hold a referendum on a constitutional revision .
The change would end a ban on Ivorians of foreign parents from running as presidential candidates .
Such a revision would allow former Prime Minister and rebel-backed leader Alassane Ouattara to run for president .
The crisis in Ivory Coast escalated last month when government forces bombed rebel positions , breaking a 18-month cease-fire .
Because of the turmoil , the U.S State Department has warned Americans not to travel to Ivory Coast .
The African Union 's Peace and Security Council has affirmed its continuing support for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers in Sudan 's violence-plagued Darfur region .
In a communiqué issued in Banjul , The Gambia , ahead of Saturday 's AU summit , the council said it is targeting September 30 for the U.N. to take over the African Union 's peacekeeping mission in Darfur .
The Council also announced it would impose travel bans and freeze the assets of people undermining or obstructing the Darfur Peace Agreement of May 5 , or violating its ceasefire .
Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir has repeatedly refused to allow U.N. peacekeepers into the country .
Mr. Bashir and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan are expected to discuss the situation at the African Union summit taking place in The Gambia Saturday and Sunday .
Nigerian Vice President Goodluck Jonathan says the country 's ailing president will return to Nigeria soon .
The vice president , speaking in Abuja , did not indicate when President Umaru Yar'Adua is expected back .
Mr. Yar'Adua left Nigeria in late November , when he traveled to a Saudi hospital to be treated for a heart condition .
He also suffers from a chronic kidney ailment .
On Wednesday , Nigeria 's cabinet and Senate made conflicting statements on whether Mr. Yar'Adua is fit to remain in office .
The cabinet , appointed by the president , ruled that Mr. Yar'Adua is capable of performing his duties .
The Senate said Mr. Yar'Adua should formally notify the National Assembly of what it called his " medical vacation . "
The constitution says if such notification is given , the vice president must take over temporarily .
A new poll finds the front-runner in the race for the Mexican presidency has seen his lead narrow in recent weeks .
The survey by the Mitofsky polling agency says Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador 's popularity among voters dropped from 39 percent in February to 38 percent in March .
Lopez Obrador represents the Democratic Revolution Party , or PRD .
Released Tuesday , the poll also shows that Felipe Calderon of the ruling National Action Party , or PAN , had 31 percent of voter support , up one percentage point .
Roberto Madrazo of the Institutional Revolutionary Party , PRI , also gained - rising to 29 percent from 28 percent .
The polling company questioned 1,000 registered voters and says the survey has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percent .
The winner of the July 2 election will replace President Vicente Fox , who by law can not seek a second six-year term .
Travelers Corp. 's third-quarter net income rose 11 % , even though claims stemming from Hurricane Hugo reduced results $ 40 million .
Net advanced to $ 94.2 million , or 89 cents a share , from $ 85 million , or 83 cents a share , including net realized investment gains of $ 31 million , up from $ 10 million a year ago .
But revenue declined to $ 3 billion from $ 3.2 billion .
Travelers estimated that the California earthquake last month will result in a fourth-quarter pre-tax charge of less than $ 10 million .
The insurer 's earnings from commercial property / casualty lines fell 59 % in the latest quarter , while it lost $ 7.2 million in its personal property / casualty business , compared with earnings of $ 6.1 million a year ago .
Travelers 's employee benefits group , which includes its group health insurance operations , posted earnings of $ 24 million , compared with a loss of $ 3 million last year .
In the first nine months , net was $ 306 million , compared with a loss of $ 195 million in the 1988 period .
The year-ago results included a $ 415 million charge in the 1988 second quarter for underperforming real estate and mortgage loans .
Two journalists in Kenya have pleaded innocent to charges of inciting the public with an opinion article on the political struggle around the nation 's upcoming constitutional referendum .
The managing editor of the Kenya Times , Onyango Omollo , and reporter David Ochami were released on bail after appearing in court Thursday .
Their case will be heard November 8 .
The charges against them stem from an opinion article on Sunday entitled , " Coups in Africa Do Not Occur Out of Nothing . "
It focused on comments by ministers who have accused opponents of the draft constitution of wanting to overthrow President Mwai Kibaki .
On November 21 , Kenyans are scheduled to vote on the document - in which the president retains his wide-ranging powers .
Rallies for and against the constitution recently have turned violent .
Ukraine 's prime minister is rejecting a planned price hike by Russia 's state-run natural gas company , Gazprom , as an unacceptable move aimed at putting direct economic pressure on Ukraine .
Yuriy Yekhanurov told officials in Kiev his country will take all necessary legal steps if the dispute is not resolved .
His comments came as Ukraine 's energy minister , Ivan Plachkov , left for Moscow for talks on a settlement .
Gazprom intends to more than quadruple the price it charges Ukraine to bring its prices in line with the world market .
Kiev supports an increase but wants a gradual one to avoid damaging its economy .
Gazprom is threatening to cut supplies on January first if no deal is reached .
Ukraine says it has sent its proposals and will seek international arbitration if there is no agreement .
Members of Aung San Suu Kyi 's opposition democracy party in Burma have sent a letter to the country 's military leaders asking for permission to meet with the detained Nobel laureate .
National League for Democracy party chairman Aung Shwe told reporters Saturday that it has been three years since Aung San Suu Kyi 's party members met with her .
Aung Shwe said party members want to meet her to discuss appealing her detention , which was extended for another year late last month .
Aung San Suu Kyi has spent most of the past 18 years under detention or house arrest .
Her National League for Democracy won free elections in 1990 , but the military-led government has never recognized the results of the election .
A Labor Department Tuesday says U.S. wholesale prices jumped five-tenths of a percent in March , pushed upward by rising gasoline costs .
Economists set aside volatile energy and food prices to gauge inflation in the rest of the economy .
By that measure , the so-called " core " inflation rate was up a modest one-tenth of a percent .
Analysts say strong price competition among businesses makes companies reluctant to pass rising costs along to customers .
Wednesday , we will get a look at inflation at the consumer level when the government publishes the consumer price index .
Some analysts predict it will be up about four-tenths of a percent for the month .
A separate government report Tuesday showed further evidence that the U.S. housing market is cooling off as interest rates rise .
The number of new homes started in March fell nearly eight percent .
Tuesday is scheduled to be a lucky day for two turkeys designated as the official U.S. national Thanksgiving turkey and its alternate .
President Bush is scheduled to give the turkeys the traditional Thanksgiving pardon during a ceremony at the White House .
The two turkeys will later be flown to Disneyland in California to be part of the holiday display and will also serve as honorary grand marshals for Disneyland 's Thanksgiving Day parade on Thursday .
They will spend the rest of their lives at a Disneyland ranch .
For the past 15 years , the national Thanksgiving turkey and its alternate have been retired to a farm just outside Washington , D.C. , in Virginia .
Millions of Americans traditionally enjoy a roasted turkey meal on this Thursday 's Thanksgiving Day holiday .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has pledged to send buses to rescue thousands of tourists stranded in resort areas along the Yucatan peninsula that were hit hard by Hurricane Wilma .
President Fox toured the resort city of Cancun , where luxury hotels have been destroyed by the storm and shopping centers emptied by looters in its wake .
Mr. Fox said Cancun 's airport would not open until Tuesday and that tourists would be bused to the city of Merida and flown out from there .
As many as 30,000 tourists faced a fourth night in crowded shelters Monday in Cancun and other resorts .
The storm is blamed for at least seven deaths in Mexico .
Meanwhile , rescue teams in rafts and boats pulled people from flooded homes in the Cuban capital , Havana , Monday after seas swollen by Wilma submerged parts of the city under water .
Palestinian security forces in the Gaza Strip have destroyed three illegally-built homes of senior Palestinian officers - as part of what the Palestinian Authority says is a new anti-corruption campaign .
A spokesman for the Palestinian Interior Ministry says bulldozers destroyed the homes built on illegally seized public land .
He said the violators were informed ahead of Monday 's action , and that the buildings were not occupied .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas , who succeeded the late Yasser Arafat in January , has been under pressure to end growing chaos in the Gaza Strip and West Bank , and to root out corruption among senior Palestinian officials and commanders of security forces .
A Jay venturing into a yard where Peacocks used to walk , found there a number of feathers which had fallen from the Peacocks when they were moulting .
He tied them all to his tail and strutted down towards the Peacocks .
When he came near them they soon discovered the cheat , and striding up to him pecked at him and plucked away his borrowed plumes .
So the Jay could do no better than go back to the other Jays , who had watched his behaviour from a distance ; but they were equally annoyed with him , and told him :
" It is not only fine feathers that make fine birds . "
Rwandan President Paul Kagame says his country may pull its troops from the African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region .
In remarks to reporters this week , Mr. Kagame said the troops are not getting the funding , equipment or support they need and are having little impact .
The president says Rwandan officials are evaluating the situation and a decision will be made regarding the troops very soon .
Rwanda has supplied about 2,000 of the 7,000 African Union troops in Darfur .
The force has not been able to stop violence in the region that has killed at least 200,000 people and displaced two million more .
The U.N. Security Council has authorized a larger peacekeeping force for Darfur .
But Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir has refused to allow U.N. forces to enter the country .
Authorities in Los Angeles have not filed charges against a 26-year-old punk rock musician , following a deadly stabbing .
Anthony Lovato , who sang in the defunct quartet Mest , was arrested March 25 , after telephoning police to report the altercation .
Police say Lovato fought 25-year-old Wayne Hughes early Sunday morning in a Los Angeles parking structure .
Hughes later died in a hospital .
The two had apparently been involved with the same woman at different times .
Authorities declined to file charges against Lovato , citing insufficient evidence .
He was released from jail March 27 .
Anthony Lovato and his brother Matt formed Mest in 1995 .
They recorded several albums for Madonna 's Maverick label before disbanding in 2006 .
U.S. prosecutors have begun closing arguments in the trial of Michael Jackson , accused of giving alcohol to a boy and then molesting him .
Prosecutor Ron Zonen told jurors Thursday , the case is about the exploitation and abuse of a 13-year-old cancer survivor at Mr. Jackson 's Neverland Ranch .
The judge Rodney Melville has said he will hand the case to the jury Friday , after the pop star 's defense team makes its closing arguments .
Mr. Jackson 's lawyers have questioned the credibility of the boy 's mother , saying she filed false income tax returns and tried to extort money from other celebrities .
Last week , prosecutors showed a 2003 police video in which the boy said the pop star repeatedly molested him after nights of heavy drinking .
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish , burst its deep gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die .
A Kite saw him and exclaimed : " You richly deserve your fate ; for a bird of the air has no business to seek its food from the sea . "
Every man should be content to mind his own business .
The World Health Organization has confirmed two more human deaths from bird flu in Indonesia , bringing the country 's death toll from the virus to 18 .
The confirmation from a Hong Kong laboratory came Sunday after local tests showed that two women who died last week had contracted the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Recent tests have also confirmed the H5N1 bird flu was found in wild swans in Italy , Greece and Bulgaria .
Officials in Romania have also reported new cases of suspected bird flu in the Danube Delta .
Italian veterinary officials are holding an emergency meeting Sunday , and in Greece , experts are checking poultry farms and homes ( around the northern city of Thessaloniki ) where the infected birds were found .
Bird flu has killed about 90 people worldwide since 2003 .
Experts say migratory birds are spreading the virus .
World health officials are working to prevent a global pandemic .
A Turkish court trying an Islamist militant accused of treason has adjourned until April .
Metin Kaplan , also known as the " Caliph of Cologne , " faces charges of trying to overthrow Turkey 's constitutional order .
He is accused of activities that include allegedly plotting to crash an airplane into the mausoleum of the founder of secular Turkey , Kemal Ataturk .
During Monday 's start of his trial , the accused said he opposes terrorism and was not involved in any terrorist activity .
Metin Kaplan was extradited from Germany in October , where he had served a prison sentence for inciting his followers to murder a rival .
His group " Caliphate State " lobbies for the creation of an Islamic government and is banned in Germany .
An investigation is under way into the crash of a British military plane north of Baghdad Sunday , believed to have killed 10 military personnel .
Officials in London say they are aware of reports that the C-130 aircraft may have been shot down , but say they can not draw any conclusions until the investigation is complete .
The aircraft went down on a flight between Baghdad airport and Balad airbase .
Two militant groups have separately claimed responsibility for downing the plane .
Sunday 's crash is the deadliest single incident suffered by British troops since the war in Iraq began nearly two years ago .
A Philippine court has sentenced to death seven members of the Abu Sayyaf terrorist group for an attack four years ago that killed 10 farm workers .
Dozens of soldiers and police guarded the courthouse on the southern island of Basilan , as the verdict was read to six of the convicted men Wednesday .
A seventh man is still at large .
Officials say the attackers were disguised as soldiers when they abducted the farm workers in August of 2001 .
They beheaded nine of them and shot another before some of the hostages escaped .
Abu Sayyaf militants have fought for decades to establish an Islamic state in the southern Philippines .
The United States has formally declared it a terrorist group .
Ecuadorean officials say troops have been sent to reinforce security at oil wells in a move to crush protests that have paralyzed oil exports .
A report from Quito by Reuters says the forces have also taken control of government buildings in two Amazon provinces to stop the protests .
Earlier , security forces fired tear gas to disperse protesters in the province of Sucumbios , forcing the state-owned oil company , Petroecuador to suspend production and exports .
Ecuador 's daily oil exports of nearly 150,000 barrels each day have been completely stopped .
Most of the exports go to the United States .
Demonstrators seized 200 oil facilities and airports in the Lago Agrio and El
Coca provinces and are demanding new contract negotiations with foreign oil firms , along with increased spending on infrastructure and social programs .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte will travel to Central and South America next week to meet with regional officials on a range of issues , including security and trade .
On Monday , Negroponte will begin a two-day visit to Medellin , Colombia , where he is leading the U.S. delegation to a meeting of the Organization of American States General Assembly .
He will travel to El Salvador , Honduras and Guatemala from June 3 through June 6 .
While in those countries , Negroponte is scheduled to meet with government and business leaders on issues including the Merida Initiative , in which nations partner to fight criminal organizations .
Discussions are also expected to cover commercial relations , trade , development and security concerns .
U.S.-based Intel Corporation , the world 's largest computer-chip manufacturer , has announced plans to invest one billion dollars in a new plant in Vietnam .
Intel Vice President Brian Krzanich said Friday that , when completed in 2009 , the plant will be anywhere from 14,000 to 46,000 square meters and will employ up to 4,000 people .
It will be located in an industrial park outside Ho Chi Minh City .
The company originally announced plans for the plant in February .
At that time it had been planned to be a 300-million-dollar project .
Intel 's announcement comes the same week the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) voted to accept Vietnam as a member , and one week before Hanoi is scheduled to host the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit .
Intel makes computer chips for use in personal computers and other electronic devices .
Kuwait has reported two cases of bird flu , the first incidence of the virus in the Persian Gulf region .
Kuwaiti agriculture officials said Thursday that the virus was discovered in two birds , one a migrating flamingo .
It is not clear if the birds were carrying the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Italian health officials say a wild duck in northern Italy tested positive for the virus , but posed no threat to humans .
Meanwhile , China has reported two new outbreaks of bird flu among poultry in the northeastern province of Liaoning , bringing the total number of reported outbreaks in the country over the past month to six .
EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou told officials in Thailand Thursday that the European Union will provide financial assistance in fighting the spread of bird flu .
World oil prices rose to new record highs in New York and London as conflict spread in the Middle East and tensions continued in Iran and Nigeria .
The price of oil for future delivery hit $ 76.40 a barrel in New York trading Thursday .
The price increases follow Israel 's attacks inside Lebanon in a campaign against the Hezbollah militant group .
Dealers say the increases also are related to Iran 's standoff with Western nations over its suspected nuclear weapons program and explosions that hit two oil pipelines in Nigeria 's troubled Niger Delta region .
Strong demand for oil leaves little unused oil production capacity anywhere in the world .
The tight balance between supply and demand means any disruption in oil supplies could cause prices to soar .
A U.S. Defense Department plan to cut military bases across the United States has suffered two setbacks .
A federal base-closing panel voted Friday to keep open South Dakota 's Ellsworth Air Base .
It was a major political victory for the state 's new Republican senator , John Thune , who defeated last year the Senate 's top Democrat , former Minority Leader Tom Daschle .
During campaigning , Mr. Thune argued he would be in a better position to save Ellsworth - South Dakota 's second-largest employer and home to a fleet of B-1 bombers .
In another decision , a federal judge threw out plans to close down a Pennsylvania Air National Guard division .
The judge said the Pentagon does not have the power to dissolve the 111th Fighter Wing without the approval of Governor Ed Rendell .
Uzbek President Islam Karimov , right , inspects the Guard of honor alongside Chinese President Hu Jintao outside of Beijing 's Great Hall of the People China has welcomed embattled Uzbek President Islam Karimov .
Mr. Karimov arrived in Beijing Wednesday , a day after China voiced support for his regime 's bloody crackdown on anti-government protesters .
The Chinese and Uzbek governments say Mr. Karimov 's visit was planned long before the May 13 uprising in Uzbekistan 's eastern city of Andijan .
President Karimov is facing harsh international criticism over the incident , which he blames on Muslim extremists .
But he has found support in China , which fears Islamic militancy in the region could spread to its own territory .
The number of people who died in Andijan is in dispute .
The Uzbek government says 169 were killed but rights groups say many more people died .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the situation in Sudan 's Darfur region is deteriorating , and he is calling for a stronger international action to fix the matter .
Writing in Wednesday 's Washington Post newspaper , Mr. Annan says recent events in Darfur have changed his view of the region from hopeful to pessimistic .
He says rebels and Sudanese government forces routinely break a cease-fire , and that many areas are now too dangerous for relief workers to reach .
He says two million people have been displaced from their homes .
Mr. Annan says African Union troops make a valiant effort to provide security but that there are too few of them to cover the vast region .
He calls on U.N. members to increase the size of the peacekeeping force and pressure the combatants to put down their weapons and work towards peace .
Prominent former judges and lawmakers in Pakistan are urging President Pervez Musharraf to quit his army post and let the Supreme Court hold elections through a neutral caretaker administration .
In a letter to General Musharraf , they say the president has failed to respect the oath he took as army chief that he would not indulge in politics .
Two former chief justices of Pakistan , Sajjad Ali Shah and Seeduzzaman Siddiqui , and two former National Assembly speakers , Elahi Bakhsh Soomro and Syed Fakhar Imam , are among the eight prominent personalities who signed the letter .
Last month , a similar letter was sent to President Musharraf by 18 prominent politicians , including several former aides to the military leader .
The letters come amid criticism of the government in parliament for alleged corruption , a charge denied by the government .
The opposition in parliament has said it plans to present a no-confidence motion on August 23 .
A SPENDTHRIFT , seeing a single swallow , pawned his cloak , thinking that Summer was at hand .
It was .
Iran has confirmed that authorities recently arrested two Iranian journalists on charges of spreading propaganda against the government .
An Iranian justice spokesman , Alireza Jamshidi said Wednesday that journalists Soheil Asefi and Farshad Ghorbanpour are under investigation for publishing what he calls " lies " and giving information to foreign news Web sites .
The media rights group Reporters Without Borders has called for the release of the two journalists .
It said authorities arrested Ghorbanpour on July 31 and Asefi on August 4 .
The Iranian spokesman says authorities are considering granting Ghorbanpour a lower bail after it was initially set at $ 160,000 .
The Iranian official provided no information about a third journalist , Masood Bastani , who Reporters Without Borders said also was detained last month .
Reporters Without Borders says 11 journalists and cyber-dissidents are being held in Iran , which it describes as the region 's biggest media prison .
The Spanish government says police have seized three tons of cocaine from a cargo ship off the Canary Islands and arrested 16 people .
Police boarded the Panamanian-flagged cargo ship Thursday .
The raid was the culmination of an investigation that lasted over a year .
The vessel 's entire ten-man crew was taken into custody , as were six other people in the Canary Islands and Madrid .
Germany 's Christian Democrats and Christian Social Union have re-elected Angela Merkel as leader of their parliamentary group .
Party officials say she received more than 98 percent support .
The vote , seen largely as a demonstration of confidence , comes after Ms. Merkel 's Christian Democrats edged out incumbent Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder 's Social Democrats by three seats in the 598-seat lower house of parliament .
German political leaders say Mr. Schroeder and Ms. Merkel 's parties plan to meet for coalition talks on Thursday , even though both leaders have claimed the right to be chancellor .
Meanwhile , Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer says he will give up his role as leader of the Green Party , if the group gores into the opposition following Sunday 's vote .
Iraqi medical officials said Saturday the death toll from a suicide bombing at a cafe northeast of Baghdad had risen to at least 26 .
The blast took place late Friday in the town of Balad Ruz , in Diyala province .
The town is located in a predominately Kurdish Shi'ite region , about halfway between the city of Baquba and the Iranian border .
An Iraqi police official says the bomber detonated an explosives-filled belt inside a popular cafe .
At least 45 people were wounded .
Tamil Tiger rebels have rejected an offer from the Sri Lankan government to hold another round of peace talks because of a dispute over the venue for the session .
The government has suggested talks to take place in any Asian country .
The rebels have turned down the offer , insisting that the talks be held in Norway .
The rejection comes just days after Japan offered to host the peace talks .
The rebels have been fighting for a separate homeland for the ethnic Tamil minority for more than two decades .
The conflict claimed more 64,000 lives before Norway brokered a cease-fire between the rebels and the government that took effect in 2002 .
The deadlocked talks are threatening to further disrupt the already shaky truce .
Cuban President Fidel Castro says he is not well enough to attend celebrations in Havana to belatedly mark his 80th birthday .
Mr. Castro made the comments late Tuesday in a statement read by a presenter to hundreds of people attending a gala in the Cuban capital .
The Cuban leader turned 80 on August 13 .
Celebrations to mark the occasion were postponed after he underwent intestinal surgery that forced him to hand over power temporarily to his younger brother , Raul , in late July .
Cuban officials say more than 1,300 people from around the world are expected to attend the five-day celebration .
They include Bolivian President Evo Morales , Haitian President Rene Preval and Nicaraguan President-elect Daniel Ortega .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is not expected to attend because he faces a national election on Sunday .
The festivities in Cuba culminate on Saturday with a military parade in Havana .
Russian lawmakers have passed a new anti-terrorism bill allowing the military to shoot down hijacked passenger planes .
The lower house of parliament , the Duma overwhelmingly passed the bill Sunday 423 to 1 .
It now goes to the upper house , where it is likely to pass , and then to President Vladimir Putin who is expected to sign it .
The new law would let the the military shoot down a hijacked jet if terrorists threaten to fly into a building or populated target .
It also gives the Russian president the authorization to order a counter-terrorist operation outside Russian territory and allows authorities to monitor telephone calls and other electronic communications .
The bill also defines terrorism and what constitutes a terrorist act .
President Bush says he expects that Iran 's new president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , will receive a U.S. visa to attend an annual United Nations meet in New York City next month .
Mr. Bush made the remark Thursday after meeting at his Crawford , Texas ranch with his top defense and foreign policy advisors , including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld .
The president also praised the International Atomic Energy Agency for demanding Iran suspend its recently resumed nuclear activity .
On Iraq , the president said he expects the country 's new constitution will be completed by August 15 .
He also said that no decision has been made on U.S. troop reductions in Iraq .
Mr. Bush added that he understands the frustration of anti-war activists and Americans who want a timetable for troop withdrawals from Iraq .
Recent opinion polls indicate that Americans are becoming increasingly disillusioned by the rate of progress in Iraq .
Hundreds of supporters of a coalition of radical Islamic groups have demonstrated in Pakistan 's central city of Lahore to press the country 's military president to resign .
The Associated Press reports some 10,000 people participated in the rally .
The coalition known as the Mutahida Majlis-e-Amal has been holding rallies in Pakistan since December , when President Pervez Musharraf reneged on a promise to quit his second job as army chief .
Last year , he promised to quit his military post before the end of 2004 , if the religion-based coalition agreed to accept him as president until 2007 .
At the rally , coalition chief Qazi Hussain Ahmed said General Musharraf will soon be forced to resign , accusing him of serving the interests of the United States instead of working for the betterment of the masses .
Rescuers in southern China have recovered the body of one of the 123 miners trapped in a flooded coal mine , and are holding out little chance any others will survive .
The miners have been trapped in the Daxing mine at Xingning in Guangdong province since Sunday .
State media say that so far rescuers have been unable to find the source of the flooding .
Chinese police have arrested 11 people for their roles in the disaster , including the mine 's owner , manager , board chairman and chief technician .
The government also has suspended the mayors of the cities of Xingning and Meizhou for failing to supervise coal mine production .
China has the most dangerous mines in the world .
More than 2,700 miners have been killed in the first half of this year alone .
A couple of long-standing trade disputes saw new actions on Monday .
The World Trade Organization ruled that a new European Union tariff on imported bananas violates international agreements .
Nine Latin American nations said the $ 279-a-ton levy would seriously harm their ability to export the fruit .
In a separate WTO case , Japan said it will slap 15 percent levies on U.S.-made steel imports at the beginning of September .
The move could cost American industry up to $ 50 million , and is retaliation for U.S. measures that the WTO has said unlawfully protected the U.S. steel industry .
Washington placed tariffs on certain steel products from Japan , Brazil and other nations several years ago , amid allegations that those nations sold their products at unfairly low prices .
The Olympic torch will make two trips to the world 's highest peak as part of the build-up to the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing , China .
The Olympic flame will go to the top of Mount Everest twice , once as part of a run-through in 2007 and the second time during the actual torch relay in 2008 .
Chinese Olympic officials say the torch , which is being specially designed to burn at such a high altitude , is in the final stage of design .
The full schedule of the torch relay , which still has to be approved by the International Olympic Committee , has not been released .
Police in London arrested and questioned Hugh Grant , after a photographer claimed the actor attacked him with a tub of baked beans .
Speaking to the Daily Star newspaper , photographer Ian Whittaker said the 46-year-old Grant abused and kicked him on April 24 , prior to lobbing the beans .
The paper printed photos of Grant with a plastic tub of food raised over his head .
A police spokeswoman said a 46-year-old man had been arrested April 25 and questioned over an assault in west London .
He was freed on bail and ordered to return in May .
His lawyers were not immediately available for comment .
Hugh Grant 's screen credits include Four Weddings And A Funeral , Notting Hill , and Love Actually .
A top Iranian nuclear official says Iran will resume nuclear research activities in the coming days , ending a suspension declared more than two years ago .
Mohammad Saeedi , the deputy chief of Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization , says Tehran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency by letter of its intention to restart research into nuclear fuel technology .
Speaking Tuesday in Tehran , Mr. Saeedi did not identify the new research .
But he stressed that no decision has been made to resume the actual production of nuclear fuel .
Iran suspended uranium enrichment activities in October of 2003 , under intense international pressure .
Both the United States and the European Union have voiced grave concerns that Tehran is seeking highly enriched uranium to make an atomic bomb .
Tehran says it wants a lower grade of the enriched ore to fuel a nuclear power plant .
President Bush has used his weekly radio address to repeat a pledge that he will focus during his second term on the challenges facing the American economy .
Mr. Bush used a two-day economic conference this week to promote his economic plan , which includes a proposal for privatizing the federal retirement system known as Social Security .
In his radio address Saturday , the president repeated earlier calls for Congress to pass legislation that would make his tax cuts permanent and would simplify the tax code .
He promised not to ignore the challenges that face the U.S. economy , like record high budget deficits and a net loss of jobs since he took office .
The president pledged to work with both Republicans and Democrats in Congress to , in his words , keep the economy innovative and competitive .
Burundi has confirmed it sent an additional 850 soldiers to Somalia last week to bolster the African Union peacekeeping force .
The deployment brings the AU force in the capital , Mogadishu , up to its full authorized strength of 8,000 .
Officials with the Burundian army and the African Union mission , known as AMISOM , confirmed the deployment .
The peacekeeping force helps the U.N.-backed Somali government hold off a fierce Islamist insurgency .
Uganda , which provides the bulk of the AU troops , has offered to increase the force 's size to 20,000 , if other parties will provide funding , logistics , and equipment .
Somalia has dealt with nearly two decades of violence and lawlessness since the fall of the last stable central government .
A snow storm that has swept across the central U.S. and upper midwest is blamed for at least 11 deaths .
Heavy snow , ice and fog Saturday and Sunday caused deadly road accidents and power outages .
The storm also grounded flights for Christmas holiday travelers .
The winter weather forced about 300 cancellations at Chicago 's busy O'Hare International Airport .
The National Weather Service on Sunday issued winter storm warnings for parts of the Great Lakes region bordering Canada , with snow and powerful winds in the states of Minnesota , Wisconsin and Michigan .
While precipitation was the most visible effect of the severe weather , bitter cold in some areas including the northern Plains where homes are still without power was more dangerous , with temperatures plunging below minus 17 degrees Celsius .
Weather forecasters say the bulk of the storms have moved to the east coast , where precipitation is falling mostly as rain .
Burma 's military junta has freed well-known journalist and key opposition figure U Win Tin and other prominent political figures in a mass release of prisoners .
The ailing 74-year-old prize-winning writer , a member of the National League for Democracy headed by Aung San Suu Kyi , has spent the last 15 years in prison .
Also freed were three NLD Members of Parliament Major Kyaw San , Ohn Maung , and Toe Bo and two other NLD members , Aung Zin and Khun Sai .
The junta announced Thursday evening that it would release 3,937 people who may have been wrongfully jailed by the recently disbanded National Intelligence Bureau .
General Khin Nyunt , the prime minister purged in mid-October , headed the feared NIB .
He has been charged with corruption .
The eldest son of North Korean leader Kim Jong il said Saturday he has no interest in leading the country and only his father can choose a successor .
Kim Jong Nam 's comments came in Beijing while on a personal visit to China .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency cited unnamed intelligence sources earlier this month in reporting Mr. Kim had selected his youngest son , Kim Jong Un , as his eventual successor .
Chinese state media on Friday reported Mr. Kim met a visiting Chinese envoy in Pyongyang .
It was Mr. Kim 's first reported encounter with a foreign dignitary since August , when U.S. and South Korean officials say he suffered a stroke .
North Korea has denied the claim and released a series of undated photos to show Mr. Kim is in good health .
A car bomb has exploded outside a Shi'ite mosque in the Iraqi town of Hillah , killing at least 25 people as Iraqi Shi'ites observed the first day of the holy month of Ramadan .
Police say nearly 90 others were wounded Wednesday evening as the faithful gathered at the mosque to pray before breaking their fast .
The attack comes 10 days before Iraqis are scheduled to vote in a referendum on a new constitution , and concerns are high about a possible upsurge in violence .
Earlier , parliament , under international pressure , voted to reverse controversial new election rules that Shi'ite and Kurdish legislators were accused of passing to ensure the document 's success .
Also Wednesday , a video dated September 12 was posted on the Internet and attributed to the Ansar al-Sunna militant group .
It showed the apparent beheading of what the group claimed were two Iraqis who spied for the U.S. military .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say a roadside bomb hit a security patrol in the country 's south , killing one soldier and wounding two others .
A coalition statement said the troops were on patrol with Afghan forces Tuesday when a mine exploded and hit their vehicle along the Helmand River .
There were no further details of the nationalities of the victims .
The statement also said other soldiers in the patrol discovered and neutralized two additional improvised explosive devices in the area .
Afghan authorities said five Afghan civilians were killed and another one wounded late Monday when a roadside blast struck a vehicle in Helmand province .
In neighboring Kandahar province , a roadside bomb hit a police patrol , killing two Afghan policemen and wounding three others .
Police have blamed that attack on the Taliban .
In 1865 , Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu , under which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for ceding some border land to British India .
Under British influence , a monarchy was set up in 1907 ; three years later , a treaty was signed whereby the British agreed not to interfere in Bhutanese internal affairs and Bhutan allowed Britain to direct its foreign affairs .
This role was assumed by independent India after 1947 .
Two years later , a formal Indo-Bhutanese accord returned the areas of Bhutan annexed by the British , formalized the annual subsidies the country received , and defined India 's responsibilities in defense and foreign relations .
A refugee issue of over 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved ; 90 % of the refugees are housed in seven United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) camps .
In March 2005 , King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK unveiled the government 's draft constitution - which would introduce major democratic reforms - and pledged to hold a national referendum for its approval .
In December 2006 , the King abdicated the throne to his son , Jigme Khesar Namgyel WANGCHUCK , in order to give him experience as head of state before the democratic transition .
In early 2007 , India and Bhutan renegotiated their treaty to allow Bhutan greater autonomy in conducting its foreign policy , although Thimphu continues to coordinate policy decisions in this area with New Delhi .
In July 2007 , seven ministers of Bhutan 's 10-member cabinet resigned to join the political process , and the cabinet acted as a caretaker regime until democratic elections for seats to the country 's first parliament were completed in March 2008 .
The king ratified the country 's first constitution in July 2008 .
The Venezuelan Congress has recommended that the state assume majority control over four key oil projects in the oil-rich Orinoco River basin .
The recommendation was made Thursday , days after President Hugo Chavez said he plans to raise taxes on foreign oil companies in Venezuela .
He described the move as an extraction tax , saying it would create $ 1 billion in new state revenue .
The new tax will be 33 percent , up from 16.7 percent .
The Chavez government has been taking measures to strengthen state control of the energy sector in the world 's fifth-largest oil exporter .
He has accused foreign oil companies of exploiting his country 's vast petroleum reserves without paying sufficient taxes .
Thirty two oil fields previously operated under contract by private companies are now run by " mixed companies " in which the state holds majority shares .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says leaders of the country 's political parties have agreed to form a national unity government - but that the details are yet to be worked out .
He made the comments after meeting Saturday in Baghdad with British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw - who also urged Shi'ite , Kurdish and Sunni leaders to form a broad-based unity government .
In another development , police say a suicide car bomber attacked a passing police patrol in southeast Baghdad , wounding at least nine people .
Meanwhile , police say an American journalist has been kidnapped and her translator killed in Baghdad .
Authorities say the journalist - who was not identified - was en route to a meeting with a Sunni Arab leader Saturday , when gunmen stopped her car in west Baghdad .
Madonna has released a new digital song aiming to raise awareness about environmental issues .
Titled " Hey You , " the ballad does n't specifically refer to saving the earth , instead choosing to speak of loving and saving each other .
Produced by Madonna and Pharrell Williams , " Hey You " hit the market May 16 .
The first one million downloads are free , and Microsoft will donate 25 cents per download to the Alliance For Climate Protection .
Madonna will perform the song July 7 at the London edition of Live Earth , a global environment-themed pop event .
Other shows will take place in New Jersey ; Tokyo ; Shanghai , China ; Rio De Janeiro , Brazil ; Sydney , Australia ; Johannesburg , South Africa ; Hamburg , Germany ; and Istanbul , Turkey .
Small , landlocked , and mountainous , Lesotho relies on remittances from Basotho employed in South Africa , customs duties from the Southern Africa Customs Union ( SACU ) , and export revenue for the majority of government revenue .
However , the government has recently strengthened its tax system to reduce dependency on customs duties .
Completion of a major hydropower facility in January 1998 permitted the sale of water to South Africa and generated royalties for Lesotho .
Lesotho produces about 90 % of its own electrical power needs .
As the number of mineworkers has declined steadily over the past several years , a small manufacturing base has developed based on farm products that support the milling , canning , leather , and jute industries , as well as an apparel-assembly sector .
Despite Lesotho 's market-based economy being heavily tied to its neighbor South Africa , the US is an important trade partner because of the export sector 's heavy dependence on apparel exports .
Exports have grown significantly because of the trade benefits contained in the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act .
Most of the labor force is engaged in subsistence agriculture , especially livestock herding , although drought has decreased agricultural activity .
The extreme inequality in the distribution of income remains a major drawback .
Lesotho has signed an Interim Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF .
In July 2007 , Lesotho signed a Millennium Challenge Account Compact with the US worth $ 362.5 million .
Economic growth dropped in 2009 , due mainly to the effects of the global economic crisis as demand for the country 's exports declined and SACU revenue fell precipitously when South Africa - the primary contributor to the SACU revenue pool - went into recession , but growth returned to 3.5 % in 2010 .
A senior U.S. commander says Washington could reduce its 18,000-strong combat force in Afghanistan next year if Taleban militants accept an amnesty to be drawn up jointly by Kabul and Islamabad .
In an interview with the Associated Press , Lt. Gen. David Barno said he will have a much better sense by next summer , after the April parliamentary polls , if the security threat has diminished or not .
Since Hamid Karzai 's landslide victory in the recent presidential election in Afghanistan , the government has unveiled a detailed plan to reconcile with the Taleban remnants .
General Barno said Mr. Karzai , who is to be sworn in as Afghanistan 's first popularly elected leader on Tuesday , will produce a list of Taleban leaders to be excluded from the amnesty and pass it to Islamabad .
Hundreds of Somalis have marched in the capital , Mogadishu , to criticize the possible deployment of peacekeepers from Ethiopia and Djibouti .
The city 's self-declared governor Abdullahi Ganey Firimbi helped organize Sunday 's demonstration , the latest in a series of protest marches .
Some members of Somalia 's new government have rejected plans for an African peacekeeping force that includes troops from nations bordering Somalia .
Some clan leaders say no foreign troops at all should be allowed in the country .
Somalia 's President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed has said international troops are needed to protect the new government when it moves home from its current base in Kenya this year .
Thursday , the U.S. State Department said a regional force should not include Somalia 's immediate neighbors , due to perceptions of bias .
Officials in Burundi say they have freed another 780 political prisoners as part of an accord to end the country 's civil war .
The move follows the release of 673 political prisoners last month .
Amnesty International has criticized the releases , saying they could allow war criminals to go unpunished .
The human rights group says Burundi 's government has yet to create a truth and reconciliation commission it says the prisoners would have to appear before .
In an interview with VOA , Burundi 's information minister also acknowledged criticism over the release of military personnel convicted of assassinating Burundi 's first democratically-elected president , Melchior Ndadaye .
Kalenga Ramadhani says it did not make sense to jail the people who executed the crime while the masterminds remain at large .
Burundi 's 12-year-civil war ended in 2004 .
Some 300,000 people were killed .
Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said the nation 's nuclear program is necessary because its vast oil and gas reserves can not last forever .
Iran 's state-run television Saturday quoted Khamenei as saying nations must have alternate energy sources to avoid being at the mercy of domineering countries .
Khamenei lashed out at critics of Iran 's nuclear program , calling them narrow-minded .
The U.S. accuses Iran of using its civilian nuclear program as a cover up to build nuclear weapons .
Iran has always rejected those charges , insisting its atomic program is peaceful in nature .
Iranian officials have said it has every right to pursue its goals .
Hospital officials in Afghanistan say an autopsy has confirmed that two bodies found in the southern part of the country are those of missing Japanese tourists .
Hassan Halemi , head of the pathology department at Kabul University where the autopsies were carried out , said hours of testing Saturday confirmed the identities of teachers Jun Fukusho and Shinobu Hasegawa .
The pair had been shot and their bodies dumped near the Spin Boldak highway , which links the former Taleban stronghold of Kandahar with the Pakistani border town of Chaman .
Officials say the two missing Japanese crossed into Afghanistan from Pakistan August 8 , and were believed to be sight-seeing .
The pair had not been seen or heard from since .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital say a grenade attack on a gathering of Yemeni nationals has killed one person and wounded four others .
The witnesses say the Yemeni community was electing a local leader in southern Mogadishu Thursday when a grenade was thrown into the meeting hall .
An officer from the Yemeni embassy in Mogadishu was among those present at the gathering .
It is not clear who was behind the attack .
Mogadishu has endured more than a year of chronic violence stemming from the conflict between Islamist militants and Ethiopian-backed government forces .
The country as a whole has been plagued by unrest since since warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
Thailand 's government says it will provide free cable television in the country 's restive south in its latest effort to stem violence in the Muslim-dominated region .
Under the plan announced Tuesday by Interior Minister Kongsak Wanthana , the government will install at least 500 television sets in local stores .
Programming will be limited mainly to sports , including English Premier League soccer matches .
Mr. Kongsak says the move could encourage the youth to become more interested in sports , and less interested in violence .
More than 800 people have been killed since violence broke out in the Muslim-dominated provinces of Pattani , Narathiwat and Yala in January 2004 .
The Thai government has tried a range of measures to quell the violence , including martial law and air-dropping millions of paper birds as a goodwill gesture .
Iran is warning that it could quit the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and resume enriching uranium if it is referred to the United Nations Security Council over its suspect nuclear program .
Top Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani spoke Tuesday in Vienna , on the sidelines of an emergency session of the International Atomic Energy Agency .
The IAEA is considering a European draft resolution alleging that Iran has breached the treaty by withholding information on its nuclear fuel cycle program .
That draft , which the United States supports , cites what it calls Iran 's many failures and breaches of its obligations under the NPT treaty .
Tehran has repeatedly insisted its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
Diplomats say Russia , China and many non-aligned member states oppose the referral , arguing that nuclear talks between Iran and European negotiators should be given more time .
South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-Young will visit China this week to discuss stalled six-nation talks on North Korea 's nuclear program .
Mr. Chung , who is also chairman of South Korea 's National Security Council , will arrive in Beijing on Tuesday .
During four days in China , President Roh Moo-Hyun 's special envoy is expected to meet parliamentary chief Wu Bangguo , Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing and other top Chinese officials , with the focus largely on North Korea .
China has hosted three rounds of six-nation talks , bringing together representatives of the two Koreas , the United States , Japan and Russia in an effort to curb Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
North Korea boycotted a fourth round of talks scheduled for last September , refusing to take part due to what Pyongyang called Washington 's co-called " hostile policy " toward the communist state .
The United Nations food agency estimates that between 30,000 and 50,000 Somalis are in need of immediate relief assistance following the Indian Ocean tsunami .
A World Food Program statement Wednesday said efforts to rush aid to one of the worst-hit Somali towns , Hafun , are being held up because waves have washed away the access road .
The agency said the town is in a state of total desolation , with most homes destroyed .
The United Nations says at least 114 Somalis died in the massive waves that were generated by an underwater earthquake thousands of kilometers away near Indonesia .
In Tanzania , officials have said at least 10 swimmers died when they were dragged out to sea by powerful water currents .
The tsunami is also blamed for killing two people in Seychelles and one tourist in Kenya .
Pakistan has closed the main supply route in the Khyber Pass for NATO forces operating in Afghanistan , as Pakistan launched an offensive against militants in the region .
Tariq Hayat , Pakistan 's top administrator for the tribal Khyber region , told reporters Tuesday that helicopter gunships , tanks and artillery units have deployed in the area near the Afghan border .
Hayat says supplies to NATO forces through the pass will be " suspended " until the operation is complete .
Militants have carried out a series of attacks on NATO and U.S. military convoys along the vital supply route in recent weeks .
The supplies are delivered through the Khyber Pass after arriving in the Pakistani port city of Karachi .
Militants have also destroyed several supply depots in northwestern Pakistan .
For the first time , Americans can go on the Internet to find out more about the quality of care at their local hospitals .
The data also includes hospital death rates for the most common fatal illnesses , such as heart attacks , heart failure and pneumonia .
In the case of children , the survey also evaluates the medical treatment for asthma .
VOA 's Melinda Smith says this information measures whether a hospital is performing up to national standards .
Mauritanian officials say unknown gunmen have killed at least three government soldiers in an attack on a military post .
News media have quoted officials who asked not to be named as saying the attack took place Thursday in the northeastern region , near the town of Ghalawiya , close to the Mauritanian-Algerian border .
The attack follows the assassination of four French tourists on Monday in eastern Mauritania .
The government has blamed an al-Qaida sleeper cell for the killings .
A newspaper editor Isselmou Ould Moustapha in Mauritania 's capital , Nouakchott , told VOA it is believed that the same group attacked the military post Thursday .
In 2005 , Islamic militants killed at least 15 government troops in a June attack on a military post near the border with Mali .
Afghan officials say ballot counting in last month 's legislative elections has been completed and authorities now are auditing the results and investigating reports of vote fraud .
Spokesman for the joint U.N.-Afghan election commission , Aleem Siddique says the physical count is complete with the exception of those materials that are subject to audit .
Officials say the unofficial results show that warlords and opponents of President Hamid Karzai have fared relatively well , and women lawmakers could hold the balance of power in the new national assembly .
Final results from the September 18 vote , which also chose provincial councils , are due by October 22 , after complaints are resolved .
Suspected Taleban insurgents , who failed to stop more than six million people from voting , resumed their attacks this week .
A bomb blast near the Pakistani border Tuesday killed three people .
The economy is limited to traditional subsistence agriculture , with about 80 % of labor force earnings from agriculture ( coconuts and vegetables ) , livestock ( mostly pigs ) , and fishing .
About 4 % of the population is employed in government .
Revenues come from French Government subsidies , licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea , import taxes , and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia .
Iraqi police say gunmen have killed seven members of a family belonging to Iraq 's minority Yazidi sect .
Police Monday said the family was assassinated in their home in the town of Sinjar , west of Mosul .
The mayor of Sinjar , Dakhil Qasim , said the killings may have been part of what he called a " social dispute " - a reference that can be related to honor killings .
Yazidis are part of a Kurdish-speaking , pre-Islamic religious sect , and have suffered in the violence of post-invasion Iraq .
Last year , suicide truck bombers killed at least 400 people in two Yazidi villages .
The explosions were one of the deadliest coordinated militant attacks in Iraq since the U.S.-led war began in 2003 .
In a separate attack Monday , Iraqi police say a suicide bomber killed at least eight policemen at a checkpoint west of Baghdad .
The islands have no indigenous economic activity , but the Australian Government allows limited fishing in the surrounding waters .
The Russian foreign ministry says it will not renew the credentials of the American television network ABC after it aired an interview with a wanted Chechen rebel leader .
The ministry Tuesday said Russian state agencies will now consider the network unwelcome after last week 's broadcast featuring Shamil Basayev , who has taken responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks in Russia .
The ministry said the broadcast supported the propaganda of terrorism and made direct threats against Russian citizens .
Moscow protested the interview to U.S. officials .
A U.S. State Department official said Washington considers Mr. Basayev a terrorist - but ABC had the constitutional right to broadcast the piece .
Mr. Basayev has taken responsibility for last year 's school seizure in the town of Beslan which killed more than 330 people .
In the interview , he said he was planning more attacks .
Russian forces and separatists in Chechnya have been at war for most of the past decade .
Even though demand has fallen nearly two percent since last year , gasoline prices continued to break records across the United States this week .
And the U.S. Oil Price Information Service warns that prices will go higher as the peak driving season approaches .
U.S. lawmakers are busy looking for solutions , but some fear it may be too little , too late to help some Americans .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has reshuffled his cabinet .
Mr. Chavez announced late Saturday that Ali Rodriguez , who heads the state-run oil company , Petroleos de Venezuela , would replace Jesus Perez as foreign minister .
Oil minister Rafael Ramirez will take over the state-run oil company , while also retaining his government oil portfolio .
The high-profile changes had been widely expected and come after Mr. Chavez consolidated his political power with a victory in an August 15 referendum on his government .
A Nigerian militant group says at least 10 of its fighters have been killed in a clash with Nigerian soldiers .
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta says Nigerian government troops in gunboats ambushed a group of its fighters late Sunday .
The ambush was in Baylesa state , in the oil-rich delta region .
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo announced a clampdown on Niger Delta militants last week , after a series of kidnappings of foreign oil workers .
The kidnappings and attacks on oil facilities have caused a 20 percent drop in Nigeria 's oil production since February .
Nigeria 's army said Saturday that more than 100 militants had been detained in a military sweep .
A new audit of U.S. funds in Iraq has revealed overpayments and mismanagement of millions of dollars .
The report from the Office of the U.S. Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction says American civilian and military personnel and contractors in south-central Iraq kept woefully inadequate records and lost track of millions of dollars .
The audit says contractors were paid in full for jobs that were never completed .
It says three people were killed when a hospital elevator , which was supposed to be replaced , crashed .
The report says one contracting officer kept about $ 2 million in cash in a personal safe ; while a paying agent kept some $ 678,000 in cash in an unlocked footlocker .
It also says a U.S. soldier gambled away between $ 20,000 and $ 60,000 during a trip to the Philippines with the Iraqi Olympic boxing team .
Iraqi police say insurgents have killed four truck drivers and set their convoy on fire in an ambush north of Baghdad .
Police say the drivers were carrying construction material Sunday to a U.S. military base when they were attacked in the al-Nabaie area .
Separately , authorities say a police general and two of his bodyguards were killed in a roadside bombing near Kirkuk .
Elsewhere , officials say a shepherd led search teams to the wreckage of a small plane that crashed three days ago in a remote northern area .
Authorities say all six people on board - including three German businessmen - were apparently killed in the crash .
The plane - headed to Sulaymaniya from Azerbaijan - went missing in a storm late Thursday .
Authorities said there was no evidence that hostile action played any part in the crash .
The government continues to balance the need for economic loosening against a desire for firm political control .
The government announced it would eliminate 500,000 state jobs by March 2011 and has expanded opportunities for self-employment .
President Raul CASTRO said such changes were needed to update the economic model to ensure the survival of socialism .
The government has introduced limited reforms , some initially implemented in the 1990s , to increase enterprise efficiency and alleviate serious shortages of food , consumer goods , and services .
The average Cuban 's standard of living remains at a lower level than before the downturn of the 1990s , which was caused by the loss of Soviet aid and domestic inefficiencies .
Since late 2000 , Venezuela has been providing oil on preferential terms , and it currently supplies about 100,000 barrels per day of petroleum products .
Cuba has been paying for the oil , in part , with the services of Cuban personnel in Venezuela including some 30,000 medical professionals .
The U.S. military says American and Iraqi forces fighting insurgents near the Syrian border have cleared most of the western city of Ubaydi of insurgents , but pockets of resistance remain .
The military says coalition forces have encountered some of the heaviest fighting in Ubaydi since Operation Steel Curtain began 10 days ago .
Officials say three Marines and 80 insurgents have been killed since coalition forces entered the city on Monday .
They have found houses and cars rigged with explosives , other explosive devices and mines , and weapons caches .
The operation is intended to restore security along the Euphrates River Valley ahead of next month 's Iraqi parliamentary elections .
Meanwhile , insurgent attacks in Baghdad and Kirkuk killed eight policemen Tuesday .
And coalition forces say they captured a high-level Baath Party leader Hamid Sharki Shadid in Diyala province .
African Union foreign ministers have developed a plan that would give the continent two permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council .
The ministers decided on the plan Saturday during a meeting in the Libyan resort city of Sirte .
In addition to the permanent seats , Africa wants three non-permanent members on the council .
The proposal approved by the AU ministers goes farther than a plan circulated by the so-called Group of Four nations of Brazil , Germany , India and Japan .
That plan would give Africa just two non-permanent seats on the council .
The 15-member U.N. body currently has five permanent members - a status that includes veto power for the United States , Britain , France , Russia and China .
The AU ministers ' meeting was held in advance of the African Union summit Monday and Tuesday in Sirte .
The upper house of Russia 's parliament has overwhelmingly approved extending the presidential term from four to six years .
Lawmakers in the upper house voted 144 - 1 in favor of the measure , less than a week after Russia 's lower house , the State Duma , voted in favor of the change .
President Dmitri Medvedev proposed the extension of the president 's term earlier this month .
Opposition groups fear the change could be used as an excuse to call an early election in which Vladimir Putin , who now serves as prime minister , could run for the presidency .
Russian officials have downplayed that possibility , and also note that the changes would not apply to Mr. Medvedev 's current term .
The constitutional amendment must now be approved by at least two-thirds of regional legislatures .
The bill also extends the term of Duma members from four to five years .
This week , the United Nations is expected to issue an appeal for up to 40 million dollars to help Somalia recover from last week ’s tsunami .
The latest death toll in Somalia is around 140 , according to figures from the transitional government .
Elballa Hagona is the Acting UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia .
From Nairobi , he told English to Africa reporter Joe De Capua that the assessment of the country continues and a final report should be available in a few days .
Hamid Karzai Afghan President Hamid Karzai says he will bring up the reported deaths of two Afghan prisoners at the hands of the U.S. military during talks with President Bush at the White House Monday .
Mr. Karzai says he wants all prisoners in his country placed under Afghan government control and wants to be consulted on all U.S. military operations .
The United Nations condemned the alleged abuse of detainees , as " utterly unacceptable " and urged the U.S. military to allow a probe by Afghan human rights investigators .
U.S. officials have condemned the misconduct and say seven soldiers have been punished .
The New York Times reported Friday that the U.S. Army has documented the abuse of detainees in Afghanistan in a 2,000 page report that has not yet been officially released .
Germany 's supreme court has ruled against a law allowing the German air force to shoot down hijacked airliners to prevent a terrorist attack .
The country 's highest court ruled Wednesday the law violates the German constitution .
The legislation came under fire by critics who said the state does not have the right to kill innocent civilians to save others ' lives .
The government proposed the law following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington in 2001 , and drafted the legislation after a German man threatened to crash an airplane into a Frankfurt building in 2003 .
Reports from Somalia 's capital , Mogadishu , say fresh violence has left at least seven people dead since late Tuesday .
Witnesses in Mogadishu 's southern Bulo Hubey neighborhood say gunmen with pistols shot three men in the area early Wednesday .
Late Tuesday , security officials and witnesses say two insurgents were killed when they attacked a police station near the Bakara market .
The market has been the scene of almost daily violence in recent weeks .
Gunbattles between Islamic insurgents and government forces have killed thousands of Somalis and prompted tens of thousands of Mogadishu residents to flee the city .
In other news Wednesday , Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi is meeting supporters in the provincial town of Baidoa following reports that President Abdullahi Yusuf is pushing for a vote of no-confidence against Mr. Gedi .
Somalia has not had a stable central government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre .
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki says he plans to announce the names of the candidates for the defense and interior ministers to parliament on Sunday .
Speaking to reporters after a Cabinet meeting , Mr. Maliki said he decided to present his nominations directly to lawmakers , after failing to reach a consensus among the main political blocs .
Mr. Maliki said he feels reaching a consensus has become almost impossible .
Iraq 's new national unity government was sworn in on May 20 , without the interior and defense ministers .
The two positions are key to improving the country 's security situation amid escalating sectarian , factional and terrorist violence .
Sri Lanka 's new foreign minister says his government is committed to a cease-fire with Tamil Tiger rebels and negotiations to politically settle the decades-old ethnic dispute .
Mangala Samaraweera made the remark in a joint statement issued after he met with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi .
He said his government will review the three-year-old truce with the Tamil separatists to make it more effective .
The statement also extends a firm invitation to the Tamil Tigers to discuss a political solution .
Mr. Samaraweera also said his government will keep India informed of the ways and means by which the peace process could be made more effective .
The joint statement says India supports the process of seeking a negotiated settlement within the framework of a united Sri Lanka .
Diplomatic sources say U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will visit India , Pakistan and Afghanistan for talks expected to focus on regional and international issues .
There has been no official U.S. announcement of the trip .
On Friday , an Indian foreign ministry spokesman told reporters Secretary Rice will arrive in New Delhi on March 16 for talks with Indian officials .
The discussions are expected to include Nepal , where King Gyanendra has seized dictatorial powers in an effort to quell a Maoist insurgency .
The announcement of Ms. Rice 's trip came as Indian and U.S. officials wrapped up two days of talks in New Delhi on issues related to missile defense .
The spokesman said U.S. officials briefed India on the newest developments in the U.S. Missile Defense program .
There are no details on Secretary Rice 's scheduled visit to Afghanistan and Pakistan .
U.N. aid officials say the international response to the Pakistan earthquake must be intensified to provide relief for millions of survivors before the onslaught of winter .
The world body 's humanitarian coordinator Jan Vandemoortele told reporters in Islamabad Saturday tents , emergency shelters and helicopters are the agency 's top priorities .
Meanwhile , India has offered to set up three relief centers near the line of control separating Pakistani-controlled from Indian-controlled Kashmir .
The move follows a call by Pakistan earlier this week to allow Kashmiris to travel across the line of control to help relatives affected by the quake .
Also this week , Indian officials opened direct telephone lines with Pakistani Kashmir for the first time in 15 years .
NATO agreed on Friday to send soldiers to the affected regions .
The powerful quake left more than 51,000 people dead and more than three million homeless .
The U.S. military says attackers threw two grenades into a crowd in the Iraqi city of Fallujah , injuring 20 people .
U.S. officials said Saturday , they had received no reports of Iraqi military casualties in the attack .
But hospital sources said three Iraqi soldiers were injured .
Meanwhile , an American soldier was killed when his vehicle struck an explosive device in Baghdad .
And gunmen injured the head of Iraq 's border guard , Major General Ali Hamadi , who was driving in the Iraqi capital .
Gunmen have attacked Iraq 's Central Bank in Baghdad , killing 12 people and wounding more than 20 others .
Government officials say the attackers detonated at least six bombs Sunday during an apparent effort to rob the bank .
The attackers and Iraqi security forces later exchanged gunfire .
At last report , the attackers were positioned on the roof of the bank , in a standoff with security forces .
Iraq has experienced a string of major robberies in recent weeks .
Last month , robbers stole $ 5.5 million from a state-owned bank in the southern Shiite province of Najaf .
Earlier that week , masked gunmen escaped with a large amount of gold and cash in a brazen daytime robbery that left 14 people dead .
A British court has ruled that radical Muslim cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri can be extradited to the United States to face terrorism charges .
The court in London issued the ruling Thursday .
Al-Masri is currently serving a seven-year prison sentence in Britain , after his 2006 conviction for inciting murder and racial hatred .
He was originally arrested in Britain on an extradition warrant from U.S. authorities in 2004 .
But that process was put on hold until his London trial ended and his appeals were exhausted .
The decision still needs the approval of Britain 's Home Secretary Jacqi Smith .
U.S. officials accuse the cleric of aiding a 1998 hostage-taking in Yemen and of trying to set up a terrorist training camp in the northwestern U.S. state of Oregon .
A new opinion poll in Israel shows the country 's ruling Likud party would suffer a crushing defeat in parliamentary elections scheduled for March .
The survey , published in Wednesday 's edition of the daily Yedioth Ahronot newspaper , indicates the right-wing Likud would win only 10 seats in the Knesset , down from its current total of 40 .
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's new centrist Kadima party would gain 34 seats , while Labor would win 27 seats .
The poll 's release comes hours before elder statesman Shimon Peres is expected to announce whether he will bolt from the Labor party and join forces with the prime minister .
Mr. Sharon quit Likud last week because he faced a revolt from right-wing deputies who opposed his decision to withdraw Israel from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Peres supported Mr. Sharon 's disengagement plan .
A Japanese business daily says automaker Toyota may add solar panels to the roof of some of its hybrid cars to help power the vehicle 's air conditioner .
Solar panels convert sunlight to electricity .
Toyota has not confirmed the story , which says the panels may be offered on a redesigned Prius model sometime next year .
Hybrids go farther than conventional vehicles on a liter of gasoline because they use a combination of electric motors , a large battery , and a gasoline engine .
The car runs on electricity from the battery , which is recharged by the gasoline engine .
The car is also able to gather some of the energy that other vehicles lose in the braking process .
Toyota has sold one million hybrids since introducing them a decade ago .
The company hopes to eventually boost sales to one million per year .
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan has urged Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels to conclude a peace agreement this year to prevent Darfur from descending into what he called " complete lawlessness . "
Mr. Annan said in his monthly report to the U.N. Security Council Monday that there has been a dangerous increase in violence in Darfur .
He said a further deterioration of the security situation can only be averted if quick progress is made in peace negotiations between Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels .
A seventh round of peace talks was due to resume Monday , but African Union officials say they have been postponed .
It is not clear when they will resume .
The last round of talks ended in October with little progress amid escalating violence in Darfur and infighting within Darfur 's main rebel group .
Iraqis are paying tribute to the journalist who threw his shoes at then-President George Bush at a statue dedicated to the incident .
A large bronze sculpture of a shoe , accompanied by an ode to journalist Muntazer al-Zaidi , was unveiled Thursday in Tikrit .
Zaidi gained instant fame during a Baghdad news conference last month , throwing his shoes to express his anger at the U.S.-led invasion of his country .
His act inspired thousands across the Middle East to carry shoes in rallies of solidarity .
He is currently in jail awaiting trial .
Tikrit is the hometown of former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein .
After a Baghdad statue of Saddam was toppled in 2003 , Iraqis displayed their disgust with him by hitting the sculpture with shoes and slippers .
President Bush says the United States remains committed to helping victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami rebuild their lives .
In a statement issued by the White House as the President left for a vacation at his Texas ranch , Mr. Bush says the thoughts and prayers of the American people are with those who suffered from the tragedy .
He also praised the efforts and generosity of the U.S. armed services , relief workers and all those who contributed to the relief effort .
Security officials say suspected Taleban rebels ambushed and killed an Afghan government official in an area bordering Pakistan .
Police say the official , Mohammed Zahir , was attacked Tuesday in the town of Paktia .
In the exchange of fire , Zahir and one of the attackers were fatally shot and at least one other militant was wounded .
Paktia has been the scene of regular violence linked to Taleban militants .
Taleban fighters have recently stepped up attacks on Afghan government forces in southern and eastern regions .
The Taleban was ousted from power in Afghanistan by U.S.-led forces in late 2001 .
The U.S. led the invasion after the fundamentalist regime refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon heads to Sudan on Monday to press the government to clear the way for a U.N. peacekeeping force in the country 's troubled Darfur region .
Last week , Mr. Ban said he is deeply concerned about an escalation of violence that has caused hundreds of deaths in Darfur during the past few weeks .
U.N. officials say he plans to urge Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir to accept the speedy deployment of 26,000 peacekeepers .
Mr. Ban 's six-day trip to Africa will also include stops in Libya and Chad .
More than four years of fighting in Darfur between rebels , the government and government-allied militias has killed an estimated 200,000 people and displaced more than two million others .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is seeking help from influential Pashtun politicians in Pakistan in an effort to stem a growing Taleban insurgency .
Mr. Karzai is a Pashtun himself .
He has sent letters to the leading pro-Taleban cleric and opposition leader Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman and Pashtun nationalist leader Asfandayar Wali Khan .
The letters urge them to help restore peace in southern Afghanistan .
Rehman heads a party of Islamic clerics that is part of the government in two Pakistani provinces bordering Afghanistan - North West Frontier Province , and Baluchistan .
There are some 40,000 NATO and U.S. troops in Afghanistan .
But despite their presence , Taleban remnants have intensified their anti-government drive by using road-side explosive devices and suicide bombers .
Mr. Karzai often blames Pakistan for not doing enough to stop Taleban attackers from crossing over into Afghanistan .
China 's minister for Taiwan affairs is in Washington for talks with U.S. officials .
A U.S. State Department spokesman says Chen Yunlin met Wednesday with Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage .
Both officials discussed a variety of issues between China and Taiwan , including China 's proposed anti-secession law .
China says the sole purpose of the legislation , to be considered by its parliament in March , is to contain Taiwan 's separatist forces and promote peace and stability in the region .
Taiwan says the measure is aimed at suppressing the island .
The two sides have been ruled separately since the end of civil war in 1949 .
The United States switched its diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing in 1979 , but Washington remains Taiwan 's top arms supplier .
Five Iraqi Cabinet ministers loyal to former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi say they will boycott government meetings , in another blow to national reconciliation efforts .
Officials from the Iraqiya List said the five Cabinet ministers suspended their participation because Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had not responded to political demands issued earlier this year .
The Iraqiya List includes Sunnis , Shi'ites , and Christians .
The announcement Monday is seen as another blow to Prime Minister Maliki 's efforts to reconcile Iraq 's different groups .
Last week , Iraq 's largest Sunni Arab bloc , the Accordance Front , pulled out of the unity government .
That group also was protesting what it said was Mr. Maliki 's refusal to respond to its list of demands , including a crackdown on Shi'ite militias .
Americans in the nation 's midsection are digging out from a huge winter storm that dumped up to 50 centimeters of snow on Wednesday .
The snow closed highways and caused major delays at airports , snarling travel plans for thousands of people trying to head home for the Christmas holiday .
At least seven weather-related traffic deaths were reported .
At the same time , the storm guaranteed a so-called " white Christmas " for parts of southern states where the phenomenon is rare , such as Texas , Arkansas and Oklahoma .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says the government will seize private land and tourist resorts to house the thousands of people made homeless by the worst flooding in 40 years .
Mr. Chavez ordered the government to seize nearly 36 hectares of privately owned land near the national airport and authorized the building of thousands of housing units .
He also authorized officials to take over unused hotel rooms and tourist resorts .
At least 32 people have died and more than 70,000 left homeless by flooding due to heavy rains in recent days .
The head of the Russian Orthodox Church says he hopes the next pope will work to improve relations between the Roman Catholic and Russian Orthodox Churches .
Patriarch Alexy made the comment in an interview with Italy 's Corriere della Sera newspaper .
He expressed respect for the late Pope John Paul II , but said many problems remain between the churches that split centuries ago .
He called on the next pontiff to denounce proselytizing .
The Russian Orthodox Church had long accused the Catholic Church of evangelizing in Russia and other predominantly Orthodox areas .
That was one of the issues that prevented Pope John Paul from fulfilling his long-desired wish to visit Russia .
Egypt says it will allow Sudanese who are seeking asylum to stay in the country while their cases are being reviewed by the United Nations refugee agency .
Officials had been threatening to deport more than 400 immigrants detained last month after police broke up a makeshift champ in Cairo .
Tuesday 's announcement followed a meeting between Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney in Cairo .
A spokesman for Mr. Mubarak said the U.N. refugee agency has agreed to re-examine the cases of those whose asylum requests were rejected .
Hundreds of migrants had been camped out for three months near the offices of the U.N. refugee agency in Cairo when police removed them .
The violent clashes that resulted left 27 people dead .
Lebanese authorities say 12 people were injured in a blast on a crowded street in predominantly Christian East Beirut Friday .
Security officials say the bomb was placed near a car and destroyed several vehicles parked on Rue Monot Street filled with restaurants and nightclubs
In the last few months , Lebanon has seen a wave of car bomb explosions , mainly assassinations of anti-Syrian politicians and journalists .
Friday 's blast followed by several hours the visit to Beirut of U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
She was in the Lebanese capital on a brief , unannounced visit to meet with top government officials .
Pope Benedict has named the Vatican ambassador to Israel , Archbishop Pietro Sambi , as the new Apostolic Nuncio ( ambassador ) to the United States .
Archbishop Sambi is replacing Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo , who retired .
Archbishop Montalvo has held the Washington post since 1998 .
Archbishop Sambi also will replace his predecessor as the Holy See 's permanent observer at the Organization of American States .
While serving as Apostolic Nuncio to Israel , Archbishop Sambi also held the posts of Nuncio to Cyprus and Apostolic Delegate to Jerusalem and the Palestinian territories .
Turkey 's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has warned Iraqi Kurds against interfering in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast .
Mr. Erdogan said Monday in Ankara that Iraqi Kurds will , in his words , pay a heavy price if they interfere in southeastern Turkey .
The Turkish prime minister was reacting to comments Saturday by Iraqi Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani .
Barzani said Iraqi Kurds could intervene in Kurdish-majority cities in Turkey if Ankara intervened in mainly-Kurdish northern Iraq .
Mr. Erdogan said Barzani " overstepped the line " and said Iraqi Kurds could be " crushed " under their own words .
Turkey is battling a Kurdish insurgency in the southeastern region .
More than 37,000 people have been killed in the fighting since 1984 .
Spain 's agriculture ministry has confirmed the country 's first case of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The ministry Friday said the strain was detected in a wild bird in the country 's north .
A three-kilometer protection zone has been declared in the area where the bird was discovered .
Also Friday , a European Union health official said the threat of a bird flu outbreak among birds remains high , but the risk to European citizens remains low .
The head of the EU center for disease control told reporters that the deadly strain is a low level threat to public health , but it is one that must be taken seriously .
Health officials suggested that bird flu could reappear in Europe seasonally , as birds migrate from areas where the disease is more prevalent .
At least 131 people worldwide have died from the H5N1 strain since 2003 .
Palestinian officials say newly-elected Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas will meet with militants in the Gaza Strip later this week in an attempt to persuade them to end attacks against Israel .
Palestinian Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath says Mr. Abbas will make the trip to Gaza Wednesday to press militant groups to agree to a cease-fire that Palestinians say must be reciprocated by Israel .
The foreign minister says the Palestinian leader will also try to persuade the groups to participate in parliamentary elections on July 17 .
Mr. Abbas has denounced violence from both sides for undermining the peace process .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is in China , looking for political support and oil deals from one of the world 's largest energy consumers .
Mr. Chavez arrived in China Tuesday night for a six-day visit , which will include meetings with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
Venezuela wants to take advantage of China 's interest in South American oil .
The energy giant exports most of its oil to the United States , but the Chavez government is a staunch critic of Washington and hopes to expand its markets elsewhere .
Before embarking on his fourth trip to China since 1999 , Mr. Chavez mentioned plans last week to buy Chinese-made oil tankers .
European delegation issued a statement saying Israeli authorities cited ' security grounds ' when they revoked permission for Wednesday 's visit to Gaza .
A European Parliament delegation is demanding that Israel explain why it prevented European lawmakers from visiting the Gaza Strip , despite earlier Israeli assurances that the delegation would be allowed to visit Gaza .
The European delegation issued a statement saying Israeli authorities cited " security grounds " when they revoked permission for Wednesday 's visit to Gaza .
The delegation of at least eight people was denied access one day after the European Union said Jerusalem should be the shared capital of Israel and a future Palestinian state .
EU foreign ministers issued a statement in Brussels Tuesday that said the European Commission does not recognize Israel 's annexation of the disputed area of East Jerusalem in 1967 .
But the foreign ministers did not stipulate that East Jerusalem should be the capital of a Palestinian state .
Egyptian officials say at least 80 people were killed by a rockslide in a poor Cairo neighborhood , as the search continues for more bodies in the rubble .
Authorities raised the official death toll Saturday , a week after giant rocks fell from the limestone cliff above the Manshiyet Nasr slum .
Angry residents have clashed with rescue workers over what they consider an inadequate response to the disaster .
Rescuers had to work mostly by hand to remove debris because streets in the neighborhood are too narrow for large machinery .
Officials say rockslides are frequent in the area .
Families living there have appealed to authorities for safer housing .
Iraq 's interim President Ghazi al-Yawar has urged all parties - except those tainted by violence - to participate in the process of forming the country 's next government following Sunday 's landmark election .
Mr. al-Yawar , who is a Sunni Arab , said Tuesday even Sunni Muslim parties that called for a boycott of the vote should participate .
In a similar message Monday , interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi urged Iraqis to unite after Sunday 's election , which he called a major blow to insurgents .
Election officials say they have finished a preliminary vote count and are dispatching returns to Baghdad for the final tally .
Final results and the naming of 275 elected members of the interim national assembly may take up to 10 days .
Also Tuesday , Iraqi authorities eased restrictions and reopened the country 's borders that were closed to curb violence during the vote .
World oil prices soared more than four dollars a barrel Monday as tropical storm Rita posed a potential new threat to oil production and refining along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
The price of crude oil for future delivery closed at 67 dollars and 39 cents a barrel in New York , about three dollars short of the all-time record high .
Meantime , delegates to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries say the group is set to allow members to supply up to two-million barrels a day of extra crude oil if the market needs it .
The proposal was discussed at a meeting Monday in Vienna .
The change would allow OPEC members to provide as much oil as refineries ask for , without regard for previous production limits or quotas .
The decision is expected to be formally announced on Tuesday .
The French cafe society culture of long conversations over wine and coffee while relaxing in the ever-present haze of cigarette smoke is about to be transformed .
The smoky cafe will be only a memory when France bans smoking in bars , discotheques , restaurants , casinos and cafes on January 1 .
Cafe and restaurant owners are concerned there will be little conversation with less wine , coffee and food purchased when customers are not allowed to smoke .
In November , thousands of cafe and restaurant owners marched in Paris to protest the upcoming ban , but the French government is moving ahead with implementing the new law .
Smoking restrictions began earlier this year in workplaces , schools , airports , hospitals and other public sites .
Officials say France has at least 65,000 smoke-related deaths each year .
Europe 's top security organization says Uzbek authorities violated the country 's constitution when they blocked television programs and websites during last month 's deadly clashes in Andijan .
Citing reports from several international news agencies , websites and an official response from Tashkent , the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe says government authorities illegally harassed journalists and imposed an information blockade during the crisis of May 13 .
In its report released Wednesday , the OSCE says coordination between the government and press is an important part of the peaceful solution to crisis situations .
OSCE media freedom representative Miklos Haraszti says his office is willing to help organize training courses to assist Uzbek authorities in resolving such events peacefully .
The Indonesian military says it is preparing to withdraw about 1,200 troops from Aceh province - its first pullout in accordance with a peace deal reached with separatist rebels there .
The rebels turned in a second batch of more than 100 weapons Friday to international monitors in the provincial capital , Banda Aceh .
An agreement reached last month calls for the withdrawal of about half the government 's 60,000 troops from the province and the disarming of the Free Aceh rebels by the end of the year .
On Thursday , the guerilla fighters turned in about 78 weapons .
More than 1,300 Indonesian police left Aceh on Wednesday ahead of the military troops withdrawals .
The peace deal aims to end 29 years of fighting in Aceh .
The U.S. Ambassador to China visited a U.S. citizen serving a 16-year prison sentence for tax fraud , and said he hoped the man would be released soon .
Ambassador Clark Randt said Friday , he is worried about the health of businessman Jude Shao , a graduate of a prestigious California business school at Stanford University who has served nearly half his sentence in a prison on the outskirts of Shanghai .
Mr. Randt says he is deeply concerned about Shao 's medical condition and hoped the Chinese government would consider him for prompt medical parole .
Shao 's family has applied for his release on parole , citing heart conditions .
The Chinese-born , naturalized U.S. citizen was detained in 1998 on charges that his medical equipment sales company based in San Francisco evaded taxes in China .
Shao 's supporters contend he was wrongly accused after refusing to accept bribes .
Two British journalists arrested in Zimbabwe have pleaded not guilty to violating the country 's media and immigration laws .
The Sunday Telegraph 's chief foreign correspondent Toby Harnden and photographer Julian Simmonds entered their pleas Tuesday before a court in the town of Norton , west of the capital , Harare .
The government accuses them of reporting on last week 's parliamentary elections without accreditation , as required under Zimbabwean law .
If convicted , they face up to two years in prison .
But their lawyer , Beatrice Mtetwa , told the court the men were in Zimbabwe for a holiday , not to report on the elections .
On Monday , they were granted bail .
The state said it would appeal that ruling , forcing the men to remain in custody .
Iraqi officials say at least 19 people are dead after Sunni Arab insurgents clashed with police and members of a Shi'ite militia south of Baghdad Thursday .
Among the dead were two policemen and 17 members of radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr 's Mehdi Army .
Officials say the fighting erupted when militia members , with the help of police , tried to rescue a fellow fighter who was abducted by insurgents .
The fighting comes as Sunni Arab , Shi'ite and Kurdish political groups try to forge alliances ahead of Friday 's deadline to register for December 's parliamentary elections .
On Wednesday , three Sunni Arab groups agreed to form a coalition , and Thursday there are reports that Shi'ite leaders are close to reaching a deal .
The main Kurdish parties have said they will keep their alliance from last January 's election .
Tens of thousands of Sunni Arabs demonstrated in Baghdad Friday to protest what they said were flawed December 15 parliamentary elections .
Preliminary results show a strong lead for the main Shi'ite coalition .
There were also demonstrations in Tikrit and Mosul
Meanwhile , Sudan 's Foreign Ministry says six Sudanese , including a diplomat , have been kidnapped in Baghdad .
The ministry says the victims were seized after attending prayers Friday .
The abducted diplomat was identified as the second secretary at Sudan 's mission in Baghdad .
Elsewhere , insurgents ambushed an Iraqi checkpoint in Adhaim , about 70 kilometers north of Baghdad , killing eight Iraqi soldiers and wounding 17 .
A suicide bomber also killed at least four people at a Shi'ite mosque in Balad Ruz , about 75 kilometers northeast of Baghdad .
The U.S. military also says two U.S. soldiers were killed Friday when their vehicle struck a roadside bomb in Baghdad .
President Bush has met with representatives of major pharmaceutical companies to discuss ways of fighting a possible bird flu outbreak in humans .
The U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services , Michael Leavitt , said discussions at Friday 's White House meeting focused on the potential of a pandemic and preparedness for such a crisis .
He said the vaccine industry has expressed vigorous support and willingness to help the country prepare .
A White House spokesman said the goal is to expand the currently limited capacity for manufacturing a vaccine and to establish the necessary public health infrastructure .
Separately , the United States hosted an international conference in Washington on Thursday and Friday on ways to prevent an epidemic , including prompt reporting of virus outbreaks and donor funding for affected countries .
Experts warn the bird flu virus could mutate and pass easily among humans , possibly causing a global pandemic .
Commonwealth leaders are meeting on the Mediterranean island of Malta for talks on several issues , including the upcoming World Trade Organization talks .
Terrorism and human rights concerns , including in member state Uganda , are on the agenda of the talks .
Finding ways to help poorer countries receive greater benefit from global markets is also among the topics for discussion .
Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon urged the body to take the lead by taking up the cause of the poorer nations during next month 's WTO talks in Hong Kong .
Britain 's Queen Elizabeth II opened the biennial summit Friday .
The 53 Commonwealth nations , including Australia , Canada , India and Pakistan , account for almost one-third of the world 's population .
Most , but not all members , were once part of the British empire .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has donated a one-year supply of AIDS medication to treat 2,500 HIV-positive children in Rwanda .
The donation was made in Kigali Saturday on behalf of the Clinton Foundation , a charitable organization founded by the former president .
Mr. Clinton flew to Rwanda from Kenya , where he and the minister of health Charity Ngilu launched a program to double the number of children receiving the life-prolonging treatments .
Mr. Clinton 's foundation says it has a goal of giving 10,000 children in at least 10 countries access to AIDS medication by the end of the year .
The former president says Rwanda is a leader in the battle against HIV / AIDS .
He says the number of people receiving AIDS medicine there has tripled over the past year .
Mr. Clinton is wrapping up a six-nation tour of Africa , where he is reviewing AIDS initiatives created by his foundation .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has withdrawn a law that imposed curbs on the media , following criticism both in Pakistan and abroad .
Government officials say General Musharraf agreed to the decision after meeting with a delegation of Pakistani broadcasters Saturday .
Information Minister Mohammed Ali Durrani says that , in return , Pakistan 's Broadcasters Association has agreed to prepare a code of conduct that will ensure what he called " respect for national institutions " like the armed forces and the judiciary .
The media legislation , which was issued last Monday , allowed authorities to seize equipment , revoke licenses , and seal the premises of broadcasters deemed to be operating illegally .
Broadcasters said the law was an effort to silence them for their extensive coverage of anti-government protests against the president 's decision to suspend Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry on charges of abuse of power .
North Korea 's foreign minister has arrived in Burma for talks with his counterparts in that country 's ruling military government .
Foreign Minister Pak Ui Chun 's arrival in the main city of Rangon Thursday comes amid concerns and speculation in the U.S. about the two authoritarian regimes ' deepening relationship .
During a regional Southeast Asia security forum last week , U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton mentioned reports that Burma recently received a shipment of military equipment from North Korea .
Clinton also said Washington is concerned about reports the Burmese military junta is seeking help from North Korea on a possible nuclear program .
Pak Ui Chun will travel to the capital of Naypyidaw on Friday .
Burma cut off diplomatic relations with Pyongyang in 1983 after North Korean agents tried and failed to assassinate then-South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan during the latter 's visit to Burma .
Twenty-one people were killed in the attack .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has ordered the nationalization of his country 's cement industry .
Mr. Chavez announced the move during a televised address Thursday .
He said the state takeover is needed to ensure businesses produce cement to help build houses in Venezuela , which is facing a housing shortage .
He said cement companies will be compensated for the state takeover .
Three of Venezuela 's largest cement companies are foreign-owned .
Mexico 's Cemex controls almost half the local market .
Egyptian security forces have detained nine more members of the country 's largest Islamist opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood .
Security officials say local Brotherhood leaders from Greater Cairo and the Nile Delta were detained late Monday .
Those detained include Mahmoud Ghozlan , a member of the group 's executive Guidance Council .
The arrests came hours after opposition lawmakers announced their rejection of constitutional amendments favored by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
Opposition lawmakers say the amendments are aimed at blocking Islamists from politics .
Egyptians are to vote in a referendum next month on the amendments after they are approved by parliament , which is dominated by the president 's party .
The Muslim Brotherhood is officially banned but tolerated in Egypt .
Members of the Islamist movement , running as independents , became the largest opposition block in parliament in the 2005 elections , winning about one-fifth of the seats .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital say a roadside bomb explosion has killed at least 20 people , mostly women .
Sunday 's early morning blast ripped through a group of female street cleaners .
Witnesses counted 15 bodies at the scene , while five other people died after being taken to Mogadishu 's Medina Hospital .
More than 40 others were injured .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast .
In a separate incident , Islamist insurgents attacked Ethiopian forces in Mogadishu 's Towfiq neighborhood early today .
Witnesses say at least three soldiers were killed .
Ethiopian troops are supporting the Somali transitional government in its fight against the Islamist insurgency .
Eighteen months of fighting has killed thousands of Somalis and displaced hundreds of thousands more , most of them from Mogadishu .
Somalia has not had a functioning government since 1991 when warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and began fighting each other .
The U.S. embassy has ordered increased security for American facilities in Germany , in response to what officials call a heightened threat situation .
An embassy statement issued Friday urged Americans in Germany to use increased vigilance and take steps to ensure their own personal security .
Embassy officials did not specify the nature of the threat , but they said U.S. facilities constantly assess their security postures in response to a heightened threat environment .
A spokesman for the embassy noted that German authorities have warned of an increased threat of terrorism against their country because of its participation in the NATO military mission in Afghanistan .
The first of 15 defendants on trial for their alleged roles in a May anti-government uprising in the eastern Uzbek town of Andijan says he plotted the rebellion with the help of foreign journalists .
Defendant Muidin Sobirov spoke before the Uzbek supreme court Wednesday , the second day of hearings .
He said foreign reporters advised him and other alleged plotters on what clothing to wear and how to organize demonstrations to gain more public support .
The defendants , who could face the death penalty , all pleaded guilty to charges including links to Islamic extremists and an attempted coup .
London-based Human Rights Watch has said there was evidence that police forced confessions from people involved in the protests .
Rights workers say Uzbek security forces fired on demonstrators and killed as many as 750 people .
Uzbek officials deny the claims .
The body of Uganda 's first prime minister and two-time president , Milton Obote , has arrived back in the country for his state funeral , scheduled to begin later this week .
Many supporters of Mr. Obote and officials from the political party he founded , the Uganda People 's Congress , gathered to receive his casket at Entebbe airport Tuesday .
Members of other political parties and Ugandan officials also were there .
Mr. Obote died last week at age 81 in a South African hospital .
He is revered by many Ugandans for leading the country to independence in 1962 .
But he is also reviled by those who hold him responsible for the deaths of some 500,000 Ugandans in a civil war from 1980 to 1985 .
Mr. Obote was Uganda 's president during the war .
He was ousted from power in 1985 and spent the rest of his life in Zambia .
The U.N. 's World Health Organization says 54 people in Indonesia with ties to a family decimated by bird flu have been placed in voluntary quarantine .
U.N. officials said Wednesday the group included relatives and others who came in contact with seven family members who died from the deadly H5N1 virus earlier this month .
WHO officials say the quarantined subjects have been examined daily and receive doses of the anti-viral drug Tamiflu as a precaution .
Officials say so far there have been no signs that the flu has spread .
No new cases have been reported in Indonesia since May 22 .
Meanwhile Indonesian health officials say local test results show that a 15-year-old boy who died Tuesday was infected with the bird flu virus .
The results have yet to be confirmed by the World Health Organization .
The Afghan government has begun an investigation of Friday 's deadly rebellion led by five inmates at the Pul-i-Charki prison near Kabul .
Officials are trying to determine if the inmates - who have been linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network - were attempting to escape as initially believed or were trying to attack other inmates , particularly three U.S. citizens jailed for torturing Afghan terrorist suspects .
The inmates killed four of the prison 's guards and wounded several others .
Two of the prisoners were killed in the ensuing battle .
Two others were killed later in the day when Afghan soldiers stormed the prison to regain control of the facility .
A fifth inmate was wounded and is in police custody for questioning .
Georgia 's foreign minister says Russian forces have returned to a disputed village near the boundary of the country 's breakaway region of South Ossetia .
Grigol Vashadze told journalists late Friday that Russian troops had re-established their positions in Perevi , just hours after European Union monitors negotiated and confirmed their withdrawal from the area .
The EU mission did not comment on the latest development .
Georgia had accused Russia of violating the EU-brokered ceasefire agreement by refusing to withdraw its forces from Perevi .
Russia swept into Georgia August 7 , after Georgian troops tried to regain control of South Ossetia by force .
Russia later withdrew its forces from most of Georgia , but kept them in South Ossetia and another breakaway region , Abkhazia .
In Washington , the U.S. State Department issued a warning Friday against traveling to both regions due to an increased potential for violence .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces fired several tank rounds into a mosque in Ramadi Friday , after coming under attack from militants inside .
The military says the Al Qadir Al Kilami mosque in Ramadi , west of Baghdad , suffered serious structural damage to its dome and minaret .
A military statement says coalition forces returned fire in self-defense only after coming under attack .
One U.S. soldier was wounded in the fighting .
Iraqi officials in Ramadi said three people were killed and more than 20 wounded in the clashes .
On Thursday , the top U.S. commander in the Middle East said a U.S.-Iraqi security clampdown in Baghdad is making great progress .
General John Abizaid said Iraq is far from civil war .
An Indonesian child receives a polio vaccination in Jakarta
The World Health Organization has confirmed more than 20 new cases of polio in Indonesia , bringing the total in the two-month outbreak to 100 .
The latest cases were found in the provinces of Banten and West Java .
One case was recently reported on Sumatra Island , indicating the sometimes crippling disease has spread beyond the main island of Java .
Millions of children in Indonesia have already received emergency vaccinations against polio , which has reappeared in the country after a 10-year absence .
Indonesia is one of several countries where polio has re-emerged since 2003 , and the first outside Africa and the Middle East .
The outbreak has been traced to northern Nigeria , where hard-line Muslims boycotted a vaccination campaign .
The Israeli military says soldiers have shot and killed an armed Palestinian militant during a raid near the West Bank town of Jenin .
Officials say soldiers also demolished the home of the militant , who was a member of the radical Islamic Jihad group and linked to last month 's suicide bombing in Tel Aviv that killed five Israelis .
The killing could complicate Israeli-Palestinian talks on the handover of security for two West Bank towns - Jericho and Tulkarem - to the Palestinians .
Officials on both sides said Wednesday the negotiations on the transfer remain stalled over whether Israel will agree to remove the main checkpoint at the entrance of Jericho .
At last month 's summit in Egypt , Israel agreed to transfer five West Bank towns , including Qalqilya , Bethlehem and Ramallah to the Palestinian Authority .
Court officials in Montenegro say an investigation into a suspected mass grave in the country has been closed after finding no evidence that remains of Kosovo Albanians were buried there .
A court spokeswoman said Wednesday there is no evidence that a mass grave exists in the northern Montenegrin town of Andrijevica , near the Kosovo border .
Officials from Montenegro investigated the site at the request of the European Union-led rule-of-law mission EULEX in Kosovo .
A mass grave containing the remains of 250 ethnic Kosovo Albanians had been uncovered in Serbia earlier this year .
The victims were believed to have been killed during the 1998 - 1999 conflict in Kosovo , when Serbian forces fought ethnic Albanian separatists .
Ethnic Albanians make up about 90 percent of Kosovo 's population .
Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2008 , but ethnic Serbs who constitute a majority in northern Kosovo refuse to recognize the ethnic Albanian government in Pristina .
Hospital officials in the Indonesian capital , Jakarta , say a 37-year-old woman has died of bird flu , bringing the country 's death toll from the disease to 59 .
The officials say the woman died Thursday after being diagnosed with the H5N1 bird flu strain earlier this week .
Also Thursday , health officials in South Korea said a person there contracted bird flu but has no symptoms of the disease .
They said the person was infected during an outbreak of the potentially deadly H5N1 strain that hit poultry farms late last year .
And in Japan , officials are investigating a possible outbreak at a chicken farm in Miyazaki Prefecture .
The farm feeds about 10,000 chickens .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide over the past three years -- none in Japan or South Korea .
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto narrowly escaped twin bombings in Karachi shortly after midnight local time that killed at least 125 people .
Authorities say more than 260 others were wounded in what is being called one of the deadliest bombings in Pakistan 's history .
The attacks marred what was to have been Ms. Bhutto 's triumphant return to Pakistan after eight years in self-imposed exile .
The explosions struck near an armored truck carrying Ms. Bhutto , causing carnage and panic among hundreds of thousands of people gathered in the streets to witness her return .
Ms. Bhutto was not hurt in the suspected suicide attack and was evacuated safely to a family residence , Bilawal House in Karachi .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack .
Islamic militants earlier threatened suicide bomb attacks against Ms. Bhutto .
But she denounced the threats , saying her return to Pakistan was a risk worth taking .
Taiwan 's president is urging the European Union not to lift its arms embargo against China , saying the move could threaten stability and security in the region .
Chen Shui-bian made his plea during a videoconference Tuesday with EU lawmakers .
The embargo began after Beijing 's bloody 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square .
Mr. Chen says ending the arms ban could lead to " a tilt of the military balance in the Taiwan Strait , " and pointed out that China already has more than 700 missiles aimed at Taiwan .
The United States is also expressing opposition to the EU proposal , saying it could put U.S. troops in the region at risk .
United States is legally bound to come to Taiwan 's defense if China launches a military attack on the island .
A second South Korean company has started producing goods at an industrial park in the North Korean city of Kaesong .
A semiconductor parts maker , SJ Tech , began production Tuesday .
The company plans to hire up to 300 North Koreans to work at the site by the end of next year .
A South Korean kitchenware manufacturer , LivingArt , started producing stainless steel kitchen pots at the Kaesong park two weeks ago .
The two Koreas began construction on the industrial park in 2003 .
The park is intended for South Korean companies wanting to capitalize on cheaper North Korean labor .
Austria , with its well-developed market economy and high standard of living , is closely tied to other EU economies , especially Germany 's .
Its economy features a large service sector , a sound industrial sector , and a small , but highly developed agricultural sector .
Following several years of solid foreign demand for Austrian exports and record employment growth , the international financial crisis and global economic downturn in 2008 led to a sharp but brief recession .
Austrian GDP contracted 3.9 % in 2009 but saw positive growth of about 2 % in 2010 .
Unemployment has not risen as steeply in Austria as elsewhere in Europe , partly because its government has subsidized reduced working hour schemes to allow companies to retain employees .
Stabilization measures , stimulus spending , and an income tax reform pushed the budget deficit to 3.5 % of GDP in 2009 and 4.7 % in 2010 , from only about 1.3 % in 2008 .
The international financial crisis caused difficulties for Austria 's largest banks whose extensive operations in central , eastern , and southeastern Europe faced large losses .
The government provided bank support - including in some instances , nationalization - to prevent insolvency and possible contagion .
In the medium-term all large Austrian banks will need additional capital .
Even after the global economic outlook improves , Austria will need to continue restructuring , emphasize knowledge-based sectors of the economy , and encourage greater labor flexibility and labor participation to offset growing unemployment and Austria 's aging population and low fertility rate .
Ecuador 's President Rafael Correa is expected to call for the shutdown of the opposition-controlled Congress as a new assembly begins to rewrite the country 's constitution .
The assembly launched its first session Thursday to start making the changes .
Mr. Correa 's leftist political movement , Pais , controls more than 60 percent of the assembly .
He has called on the body to dissolve Congress , which has blocked many of his proposed reforms .
The president says the current Congress is corrupt and inefficient .
He says he wants to use the assembly to curb the influence of traditional political parties .
Mr. Correa 's opponents say he is trying to grab more power .
The assembly will have six months to prepare a final draft of a new constitution and present it to voters in a referendum .
Afghan officials say U.S.-led coalition and Afghan troops have recaptured a Taleban-occupied district killing at least 15 rebels .
The forces took control late Friday of the Chora district of southern Uruzgan province , days after the Taleban captured the area .
In another incident , security officials say they killed 12 suspected Taleban militants and captured 18 more when rebels attacked a police checkpoint in southern Afghanistan .
Suspected Taleban rebels stormed the checkpoint late Friday north of Kandahar city , setting off hours of fighting .
A provincial spokesman says four police officers were wounded in the attack .
Also Friday , rebels attacked police in neighboring Helmand province , wounding four officers .
Authorities rounded up 18 men after the attack .
Two separate attacks in the southern Iraqi city of Basra killed at least 14 people , including four American security guards , on Wednesday .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber detonated his explosives filled car in front of a busy restaurant , killing 10 people and injuring 15 others .
Hours earlier , the four private American guards were killed in a roadside bomb blast in the Shi'ite dominated city .
In other developments , U.S. troops rescued American contractor Roy Hallums , who was kidnapped more than 10 months ago .
He is reported in good physical condition .
Separately , the U.S. military says Iraqi and American forces have carried out dozens of joint operations in Baghdad this week , detaining more than 50 suspected terrorists .
The Mayan civilization flourished in Guatemala and surrounding regions during the first millennium A.D . After almost three centuries as a Spanish colony , Guatemala won its independence in 1821 .
During the second half of the 20th century , it experienced a variety of military and civilian governments , as well as a 36-year guerrilla war .
In 1996 , the government signed a peace agreement formally ending the conflict , which had left more than 100,000 people dead and had created , by some estimates , some 1 million refugees .
A former CIA official has acknowledged the United States has sent terrorism suspects to other countries for interrogation .
The former head of the CIA 's unit in charge of pursuing al-Qaida Mike Scheuer admitted in an interview aired Sunday some terrorism suspects have been sent to countries where they might have been tortured .
In comments aired in the same program , former British ambassador to Uzbekistan Craig Murray accused Washington of knowingly accepting information from suspects tortured in the central Asian nation .
Mr. Scheuer said a process known as rendition began during the Clinton administration .
Under the process , officials say suspects have been sent to countries including Egypt , Syria , Jordan , Saudi Arabia and Pakistan .
The Bush administration has publicly stated the United States does not hand over people to countries that allow torture .
China reopened Tibet to foreign tourists Wednesday , three months after a harsh crackdown on anti-government protests that sparked an international firestorm .
Statements on Tibetan government websites say they are resuming foreign tourism following last Saturday 's run of the Beijing Olympic torch through the Tibetan capital of Lhasa .
The statements declared the torch run a success , and said it was a victory over " separatists " and proved that social stability in the territory had been restored .
China halted all tourism in Tibet after the March 14 anti-government protests and subsequent crackdown .
Beijing allowed domestic tour groups back into the region in late April .
China says 22 people were killed in the demonstrations , but Tibet 's government-in-exile says more than 200 people died in the crackdown on mostly monk-led protests .
Avril Lavigne has no sympathy for Britney Spears .
Speaking to the London Sun , the 22-year-old pop-rock singer says Spears simply is n't tough enough for show business .
" You ca n't complain about the pressures , the paparazi , the madness , " she says , " because that 's the job . "
Avril Lavigne had her own widely-publicized run-ins with celebrity lensmen last September , when she was photographed spitting at paparazzi on two separate occasions .
Her third album The Best Damn Thing is scheduled for an April 17 release .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says he is willing to talk with anti-government opposition figures and members of Saddam Hussein 's outlawed Baath party .
However , Mr. Talabani told a reconciliation conference in Cairo Sunday that his government will not meet with those who continue to attack U.S. and Iraqi government forces .
Mr. Talabani said there have been no contacts so far with " those whom some describe as the resistance . "
Meanwhile , a British soldier was killed and four others wounded Sunday in a roadside bombing in the southern Iraqi city of Basra .
Separately , the U.S. military says an ambush late Saturday on a joint U.S.-Iraqi patrol killed a Marine and 15 civilians in the town of Haditha .
A wave of bombings in Baghdad and elsewhere in the country killed at least 48 Iraqis and wounded about 70 others earlier Saturday .
The son of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi says Libya expects to be taken off the U.S. list of nations that sponsor terrorism by the end of this year .
Seif el-Islam told reporters late Monday that he also believes the United States and Libya will soon exchange ambassadors for the first time in more than three decades .
However , a U.S. State Department spokesman says there are still issues to be addressed before Libya can be removed from the terror list and resume full diplomatic ties with Washington .
The United States and Libya restored low-level diplomatic relations in June 2004 , after a gap of 24 years .
The move came after Libya abruptly ended its pursuit of weapons of mass destruction , and admitted responsibility for the 1988 bombing of a U.S. Pan Am jetliner over Scotland .
Prominent Sunni Muslim politicians in Iraq have again called for a postponement of the January 30 elections as violence continues in parts of the country .
Despite Prime Minister Iyad Allawi 's insistence that elections will go forward on time , Sunni leaders repeated their calls Thursday for a delay due to the unstable security situation .
On Wednesday , the United States announced it will send some 1,500 additional troops to Iraq and extend the tours of another 10,000 to bolster security for the election .
Meanwhile , at least one Iraqi was killed and several wounded in a wave of mortar attacks in Baghdad today .
And to the north , in Beiji , at least two Iraqi National Guards were wounded when a car bomb exploded near a checkpoint .
One U.S. soldier has been killed and another wounded in eastern Afghanistan .
A statement released by U.S. Army officials says insurgents attacked a group of American engineers with small arms and rocket-propelled grenades near a road construction project in the eastern Paktika province .
The statement says the wounded service member has been taken to a nearby U.S. base for medical treatment .
The latest American casualties come amidst an upsurge of violence ahead of the September 18 parliamentary elections .
Hundreds of people have died in militant-related violence so far this year .
Earlier this week , 16 suspected Taleban militants and one U.S. soldier were killed .
The World Health Organization estimates about 18 million people around the globe suffer from Alzheimer 's Disease , a degenerative disease in which brain cells whither away and die . Wednesday May 14 in Washington , former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor told the Senate Special Committee on Aging more can , and must be done for victims of the disease and those caring for them .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
The Organization of American States has warned that Venezuela 's plans to close a privately-owned television station may undermine press freedom in that South American nation .
OAS Secretary-General Jose Miguel Insulza Friday called on Venezuela 's government to reconsider the move against Radio Caracas Television .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez accuses the station of supporting a failed military coup against him in 2002 .
He has warned that he will not renew RCTV 's license when it expires in March .
Insulza said any alleged violations by the station should be addressed through the Venezuelan courts .
RCTV president Marcel Granier told VOA 's Foro Interamericano program that his firm has yet to see a formal explanation of the government 's decision to end its license .
He says the broadcasting license is valid until 2022 .
Granier also accused Mr. Chavez of human rights violations for persecuting journalists at the station and other independent reporters in the country .
Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo says he would support Miami as the permanent headquarters of a proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas .
President Toledo made the comment Thursday in Lima at a joint news conference with Florida Governor Jeb Bush .
The governor has been leading a business delegation to Peru and Ecuador to promote trade and investment and lobby support for Miami to be the home of an F.T.A.A . Secretariat .
His brother , President Bush , has been pushing for a hemispheric free trade agreement , but several large South American countries oppose the move .
The governor 's trip to South America comes one month after Peru and the United States reached a free trade agreement after 18 months of negotiations .
The United States is also trying to negotiate a similar deal with Ecuador and Colombia .
Iran 's state news agency says authorities have reinstated another 251 candidates for next month 's parliamentary elections , bringing the total reinstated in the past week to more than 800 .
The official news agency IRNA quotes an official as saying the reinstated candidates include reformists .
Iran 's Interior Ministry had banned more than 2,200 candidates , mostly reformists , from competing in the March 14 poll for the 290-seat parliament .
Last week , Iran 's highest oversight body , the Guardian Council , said that it had reinstated almost 600 of those candidates .
Iranian authorities can disqualify candidates who are not deemed as showing sufficient loyalty to Iran 's Islamic system .
Reformists and conservatives have strongly criticized the mass disqualifications , warning that they undermine the election process .
The top commander of U.S. Marines in Iraq says U.S. and Iraqi troops have " broken the back " of the insurgency there by taking control of Fallujah .
Lieutenant General John Sattler said Thursday the 11-day operation has pushed the insurgents out of their safe haven and into less familiar areas there it may be more difficult for them to operate .
But , he said Fallujah is not quite secure yet .
U.S. troops going building-to-building in Fallujah have found what is believed to be a safe house containing evidence linked to wanted militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
General Settler did not confirm the find , but reporters with the troops in the city say photographs , notes , ammunition and letters thought to be from al-Zarqawi were found .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has picked up support from member nations in his effort to reorganize parts of the world body .
Mr. Ban spelled out his revised plans Friday during a closed-door meeting with ambassadors of the 192-member General Assembly .
He dropped an earlier controversial plan to merge the U.N. 's disarmament department with the political affairs unit , and place a lower-ranking assistant secretary-general in charge of the new division .
Mr. Ban now says he will keep the departments separate , and he is proposing to place a higher-ranked undersecretary in charge of the department .
The former South Korean diplomat ran into strong opposition over his initial plans shortly after he succeeded Kofi Annan on January 1 .
On Friday , he further explained his proposals to split the peacekeeping department in two , with the second division responsible for field support .
Iraqi officials have raised a modified flag over the Cabinet building in Baghdad in a symbolic break with the country 's war-torn past .
The flag keeps the three stripes of red , white and black , but removes the three-star symbol of Saddam Hussein 's Baath Party .
The new flag is valid for one year , until the country 's parliament votes on a permanent replacement .
Iraq 's Kurdish minority lobbied for the changes , arguing the old flag was a reminder of Saddam 's brutality toward the Kurds .
The largely autonomous Kurdish regional government banned the previous Iraqi flag from flying over government buildings .
The Kurdish regional parliament is expected to decide next week on whether it will fly the new flag .
Iraq 's Kurds now use a red , white and green flag , with a golden sun in the center .
Army officials in Colombia say 20 soldiers have died in a helicopter crash during a drug eradication mission .
The officials say the Black Hawk helicopter went down Thursday near the town of Tumaco , in the province Narino .
They say there was bad weather during the time of the crash .
The Black Hawk was part of a U.S. funded anti-drug effort called Plan Colombia .
It supported military operations against drug traffickers and leaders of rebel groups .
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ,
FARC , which has been fighting the Colombian government for 40 years , uses drug trafficking to finance its insurgency .
Electoral officials in Haiti say Rene Preval 's lead in Tuesday 's presidential election has dipped below the 50 percent needed for an outright victory .
Haiti 's election council said late Saturday that Preval , a former president , has 49.6 percent of the vote , with about three-quarters of the ballots counted .
Another former president , Leslie Manigat , is second with about 12 percent .
Hours earlier , thousands of Preval supporters cheered and chanted as they marched from the Cite Soleil slum through Port-au-Prince .
International observers say the election was free and fair .
But candidate Charles Baker , who has about 8 percent of the vote , has called for an investigation into reports of people voting multiple times .
Australia 's cricket team has beaten India by 337 runs with one day to spare in the first test of their series in Melbourne , Australia .
Strike bowler Brett Lee and left arm spinner Brad Hogg took two wickets apiece and Mitchell Johnson took three more as India collapsed to 161 all out in its second innings .
The visitors were chasing a victory target of 499 runs but the Aussie bowlers made sure they got nowhere near the total .
Lee finished with 2-43 while Hogg was 2-51 .
Johnson was 3-21 .
The final score : Australia 343 all out and 351-7 .
India 196 all out and 161 all out .
The match was the first of four tests between the two sides .
The second test starts Wednesday in Sydney .
Despite the lack of effective national governance , Somalia has maintained a healthy informal economy , largely based on livestock , remittance / money transfer companies , and telecommunications .
Agriculture is the most important sector with livestock normally accounting for about 40 % of GDP and more than 50 % of export earnings .
Nomads and semi-pastoralists , who are dependent upon livestock for their livelihood , make up a large portion of the population .
Livestock , hides , fish , charcoal , and bananas are Somalia 's principal exports , while sugar , sorghum , corn , qat , and machined goods are the principal imports .
Somalia 's small industrial sector , based on the processing of agricultural products , has largely been looted and the machinery sold as scrap metal .
Somalia 's service sector also has grown .
Telecommunication firms provide wireless services in most major cities and offer the lowest international call rates on the continent .
In the absence of a formal banking sector , money transfer / remittance services have sprouted throughout the country , handling up to $ 1.6 billion in remittances annually .
Mogadishu 's main market offers a variety of goods from food to the newest electronic gadgets .
Hotels continue to operate and are supported with private-security militias .
Due to armed attacks on and threats to humanitarian aid workers , the World Food Programme partially suspended its operations in southern Somalia in early January 2010 pending improvement in the security situation .
Somalia 's arrears to the IMF have continued to grow .
Tourism , the primary economic activity , has steadily increased over the years and has brought a level of prosperity unusual among inhabitants of the Pacific islands .
The agricultural sector has become self sufficient in the production of beef , poultry , and eggs .
Hoshyar Zebari Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari has met U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Washington for talks on the situation in war-torn Iraq .
Mr. Zebari and Ms. Rice told reporters Wednesday after the meeting the United States is committed to completing its mission in Iraq and , in Mr. Zebari 's words , " standing by the Iraqi people . "
On Tuesday , Mr. Zebari spoke at United Nations headquarters in New York , praising the work of U.S.-led troops to combat insurgent attacks in the country .
Meanwhile , Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has warned Iraq 's neighbors not to offer medical aid or haven to insurgent leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
He says any such effort would be associating with al-Qaida .
In Iraq , a suicide bomber blew up his car at a checkpoint near Baghdad International Airport , wounding 15 civilians .
Iran has rejected Western allegations that it has encouraged violent protests over the publication of cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad .
In Tehran , Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi singled U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Danish officials for making such accusations .
He called for Western apologies to the Muslim world for the cartoons , and promises not to make " such blunders " in the future .
In Turkey , thousands of people rallied Sunday in that country 's largest protest against the cartoons , first published in Denmark .
Violence and threats have led Denmark to withdraw its diplomats from Iran , Syria and Indonesia .
In Pakistan , the United Nations has limited the movement of staff and supplies because of anti-Western protests .
Secretary of State Rice says the protests across the Muslim world could spin out of control if governments refuse to urge their citizens to remain calm .
Iran is warning Western governments of a global oil and banking crisis , if it is hit with international sanctions over its suspect nuclear program .
The official Iranian news agency quotes Economy Minister Davoud Danesh-Jafari as saying other countries will suffer as well as Iran if the United Nations Security Council levies sanctions .
He said imposing sanctions would " make oil-rich countries anxious to transfer their capital out of European banks and into safer places . "
On Wednesday , the International Atomic Energy Agency called an emergency session for February 2 , to hear the European case for referring Iran to the Security Council .
The call came after Tehran broke a two-year moratorium on nuclear research earlier this month .
The United States accuses Iran of using its research to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran insists its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
Conditions in Somalia have reportedly worsened to their lowest point in many years .
The United Nations Food and Agrigulture Organization says extensive drought is causing a deteriorating humanitarian situation .
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says that the humanitarian situation in the strife-torn nation is deteriorating partly because of rising insecurity .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says it is extremely concerned about the humanitarian situation in Somalia .
Hashim Isse Wardere is a journalist with Frontier FM . Nightline ’s Akwei Thompson asked him how dire the situation is in Somalia .
Wardere said that more than half a million people have fled their homes , many of them from Mogadischu and south-central Somalia .
He said a large number of the refugees “ are coming by different ways to Kenyan refugee camps without full registration ... ”
Venezuela 's oil minister , Rafael Ramirez , says ConocoPhillips and ExxonMobil will end their operations in the country after refusing to give the government control of their local oil business .
A deadline for a deal passed on Tuesday .
Venezuela 's state-run oil company , Petroleos de Venezuela or PDVSA , has raised its average ownership share in six oil ventures in the Orinoco basin from 39 percent to a controlling 78 percent .
The U.S. State Department says Venezuela has the right to nationalize its assets , but should provide fair compensation .
Venezuela has said it will not pay cash for the oil assets it takes over and will not compensate foreign companies for the $ 4 billion in debt they incurred on the projects .
Four other foreign oil companies : Chevron , Statoil , Total , and BP , have signed deals to continue work in Venezuela .
The National Museum of the Marine Corps opened in November 2006 to honor and celebrate more than 200 years of military history .
Located adjacent to the Quantico Marine Corps base in Quantico , Virginia , the museum offers visitors an interactive environment that highlights the values , culture and mission of the U.S. Marine Corps .
For producer Liu Enming , Elaine Lu has more .
Honduras , the second poorest country in Central America , suffers from extraordinarily unequal distribution of income , as well as high underemployment .
While historically dependent on the export of bananas and coffee , Honduras has diversified its export base to include apparel and automobile wire harnessing .
Nearly half of Honduras 's economic activity is directly tied to the US , with exports to the US accounting for 30 % of GDP and remittances for another 20 % .
The US-Central America Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA ) came into force in 2006 and has helped foster foreign direct investment , but physical and political insecurity , as well as crime and perceptions of corruption , may deter potential investors ; about 70 % of FDI is from US firms .
The economy registered sluggish economic growth in 2010 , insufficient to improve living standards for the nearly 60 % of the population in poverty .
The LOBO administration inherited a difficult fiscal position with off-budget debts accrued in previous administrations and government salaries nearly equivalent to tax collections .
His government has displayed a commitment to improving tax collection and cutting expenditures , and attracting foreign investment .
This enabled Tegucigalpa to secure an IMF Precautionary Stand-By agreement in October 2010 .
The IMF agreement has helped renew multilateral and bilateral donor confidence in Honduras following the ZELAYA administration 's economic mismanagement and the 2009 coup .
Environmental groups have often clashed with the Bush administration over enforcement of clean air and water laws .
In fact , last year they won a Supreme Court ruling compelling regulation of greenhouse gas emissions .
The White House has touted investment in new green technology , and the marketplace , as the best ways to address challenges like global warming .
This week , the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency gathered together scientists , investors and industry to show off what they say are key innovative technologies in the environmental effort .
VOA producer Zulima Palacio prepared the story .
Jeff Swicord narrates .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has sharply criticized what he terms " attempts by Western countries to influence the outcome " of the disputed Ukrainian presidential election .
Mr. Lavrov told a Moscow news conference Friday , Russia is concerned at what he called " Western efforts to steer the situation in Ukraine from the legal path and towards the West . "
He said Ukrainian voters alone should decide their country 's future .
Western countries have rejected full official results that declared Ukraine 's Kremlin-backed Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the winner of Sunday 's election .
They say the vote fell far short of international standards .
Meanwhile , Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus arrived in Kiev Friday to join international mediation efforts aimed at resolving the crisis .
Also , Ukraine 's television networks have begun live coverage of the opposition demonstrations in Kiev , the first time they have presented opposition views .
Burmese authorities have arrested at least 39 supporters of pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi before they could reach temples to pray for her release .
A spokesman for the opposition National League for Democracy and witnesses say the activists were arrested Tuesday in different areas around the former capital , Rangoon .
Aung San Suu Kyi 's supporters began holding weekly prayer vigils on May 1 .
The Nobel peace laureate has spent most of the past 17 years under house arrest .
Her most recent term ends on May 27 .
On Monday , more than 50 former world leaders , including three former U.S. presidents called on Burma to free the pro-democracy leader .
Aung San Suu Kyi 's opposition party made a similar appeal .
Authorities in the northeast Indian state of Tripura have begun a probe into the mysterious death of 91 children at a government hospital in the capital , Agartala .
State health officials say the children , most of them infants , died during the past three months at the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital .
They say up to 800 children aged 12 years and younger are admitted to the hospital each month , with an average mortality rate of about 15 per month .
Tripura 's health director , Satya Ranjan Debbarma , says authorities have ordered a three-member team of doctors to find the reason behind the sharp increase of mortality among children at the hospital .
Health care in Tripura , a poor state bordering Bangladesh , is below modern standards .
Rescue officials say at least 12 bodies have been recovered from a mudslide in northern Colombia that may have buried another 145 .
Torrential rains caused the mudslide that engulfed dozens of homes Sunday outside Colombia 's second-largest city , Medellin .
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos said the unusually heavy rainfalls could leave more than 2 million people homeless .
Before Sunday 's disaster , heavy rains had killed around 170 people this year in Colombia .
In neighboring Venezuela , driving rains have triggered flooding and cave-ins that have killed 34 people and left an estimated 90,000 people homeless .
Officials blame the downpours on the La Nina weather phenomenon , during which cooler-than-normal water temperatures exist in the Tropical Pacific Ocean .
The U.S. State Department has issued a travel warning for Colombia , saying that Americans continue to be victims of threats , kidnappings and other criminal acts .
In a statement issued Wednesday , the State Department said that terrorist groups , such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , and the National Liberation Army ( ELN ) , continue to kidnap civilians for ransom or as political bargaining chips .
It noted that at least five Americans were kidnapped in 2004 , and at least one in 2005 .
The State Department also said FARC has held three American contractors hostage since February 2003 .
The State Department is urging U.S. citizens traveling to Colombia to not use bus transportation , and to avoid traveling by road outside of urban areas at night .
Cuba 's government says it will raise pension payments to retirees and increase the salaries of some government workers .
Sunday 's announcement says the pay hikes will target those workers who earn the least amount of money .
A statement from the government says the increases will apply to pensioners and some employees who work in the Cuban court system .
It says other workers will have to wait for pay increases because the country " does n't have the necessary resources at the moment . "
The move comes after much speculation that pay hikes were coming .
New Cuban President Raul Castro has spoken publicly about making changes to the government 's salary structure .
Since taking office , Mr. Castro has instituted a series of reforms , among them authorizing Cubans to buy mobile phones and computers .
Iran 's main reformist party is accusing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of hurting the nation 's poor .
At an annual meeting of the Islamic Iran Participation Front Thursday , party leader Mohsen Mirdamadi attacked both the president 's foreign and economic policies .
The party hopes to field former president Mohammad Khatami to challenge Mr. Ahmadinejad in next year 's presidential election .
Mr. Khatami has not yet said if he will run .
Mr. Ahmadinejad said Wednesday Iran must base its budget on oil worth as little as $ 30 a barrel .
It is a drastic downward revision likely to lead to spending cuts .
In recent months , when oil was nearly $ 150 a barrel , the president promised to spread the nation 's oil wealth .
But with the plummeting price , and inflation at about 30 percent , he has had to postpone his economic reform plans .
Turkey has warned France that ties between the two countries will suffer what it called " irreparable damage " if French lawmakers approve a measure making denial of the Armenian genocide 90 years ago a criminal offense .
A Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman , Namik Tan , told reporters in Ankara his country 's views on the issue are being conveyed to French officials .
The proposed bill would provide fines and imprisonment for denying that Armenians in the Ottoman Empire were victims of genocide during World War One If adopted , the bill would follow a 2001 French parliament decision that the deaths of one and a half million Armenians amounted to genocide .
That vote infuriated Turkey , which acknowledges the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Armenians but insists that as many Turks also died in civil strife and a Russian-backed Armenian uprising against Ottoman rule .
President Bush has outlined the agenda for his second term in office and has asked for the support of all Americans , but Democrats have expressed reservations .
In his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush promised to reach out to international allies to promote global development and progress , defeat terrorists and encourage democracy .
In this country , he pledged to introduce medical malpractice , education and tax code reform and to save the threatened U.S. Social Security system .
Responding to the President 's remarks in her own radio address , House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said Democrats stand ready to work with Mr. Bush .
But the minority leader said they will fight the President 's plans on Social Security if he proposes to privatize the system or cut benefits .
Ms. Pelosi proposed a nationwide transportation construction bill that she said would create 1.7 million new jobs .
U.S weather forecasters say hurricane warnings have been posted for Mexico 's Yucatan peninsula as Hurricane Wilma continues to churn slowly through the Caribbean .
A statement from the National Hurricane Center says Wilma is still a strong category 4 hurricane with winds near 250 kilometers per hour .
It is centered 345 kilometers southeast of Cozumel , Mexico .
It warns that the storm could strengthen again later Thursday .
Meteorologists say that if Wilma comes ashore in the Yucatan , it will bring a storm surge of two to three meters above normal along with large , battering waves .
Forecasters say Wilma is moving west to northwest at 13 kilometers per hour .
Computer models show it turning sharply toward the east and the Florida coast later this week . .
At least 10 people in Haiti were killed in mudslides caused by the storm .
The death toll from Saturday 's roof collapse in southern Poland has risen to 65 as rescue workers pulled three more bodies from the wreckage .
Among the victims recovered Tuesday was a Hungarian , bringing to nine the number of foreigners who died in the accident .
The eight other foreigners were from Slovakia , the Czech Republic , Germany , the Netherlands and Belgium .
At least 160 other people were injured .
About 500 people from across Europe were in a large exhibition hall in the Katowice area when the building 's snow-covered roof caved in .
A team of experts is trying to determine why the building collapsed .
Polish authorities blame the weight of the snow on the roof .
Typhoon Longwang has hit mainland China after pounding Taiwan Sunday , where it left one person dead and disrupted flights and electricity .
Officials say it hit China 's Fujian province with strong winds and heavy rains .
More than 300,000 people were evacuated .
In Taiwan , a 60-year-old man died after he was hit by flying debris .
A woman is missing and feared dead after being washed away by flash floods in the central town of Hoping .
And 46 people were injured during the typhoon , most by flying debris .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has arrived in Syria for a three-day diplomatic visit .
Syrian state media say President Bashar al-Assad met Mr. Chavez Tuesday at the airport in Damascus .
The two leaders are expected to hold talks on bilateral cooperation .
The Venezuelan president has built close ties with Syria , Iran and other countries in the Middle East , while relations have grown tense with Israel .
Earlier this month , Israel recalled its ambassador to Venezuela after Mr. Chavez said that Israeli attacks against Hezbollah in Lebanon were " genocide . "
Previously , President Chavez withdrew Venezuela 's ambassador to Israel to show what he called his " indignation " over the Israeli military offensive in Lebanon .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , is preparing to put a long-armed lander on the icy north pole of Mars to search for water and possible signs of life .
Scientists working on the Phoenix Mars project said Thursday they plan to launch the $ 386 million spacecraft in August 2007 and land 10 months later .
The probe will use its long robotic arm to dig into the ice and terrain to gather soil samples near the arctic surface .
Scientists say ice is interesting because if there is any life on Mars , it is most likely to be found near water .
An earlier mission called Mars Odyssey first detected icy soil at the north pole of Mars in 2002 .
A new report from the International Monetary Fund urges officials in Latin America to help the poor cope with rising food prices to help fend off social unrest .
Friday 's IMF report also says the region has been helped by a boom in prices for the commodities that it sells , helping these nations weather an economic downturn in the United States , a key trading partner .
But the report also predicts that commodity prices will decline and that Latin America 's economic growth rate will slow by two percent , to just 3.6 percent in 2009 .
The slowing growth rate may help policy makers in the region continue their relatively successful recent efforts to contain inflation .
The presidents of Venezuela , Bolivia , and Argentina met Friday in the southern Bolivian town of Tarija .
Venezuela 's Hugo Chavez , Bolivia 's Evo Morales , and Argentina 's Nestor Kirchner signed agreements to share the costs of energy production .
They agreed to fund the construction of a gas-separation plant near Bolivia 's border with Argentina .
Mr. Chavez has been campaigning for more integration of the energy industry in South America .
Bolivia is his last stop on a four-nation tour meant to promote South American energy production .
The four nations on Chavez 's tour include Argentina , Uruguay , Ecuador , and Bolivia .
He announced intentions to buy as much as one-billion-dollars worth of Argentine bonds and guaranteed Uruguay access to Venezuelan oil for decades .
Mr. Chavez has been lobbying to join the South American trade block Mercosur , which is comprised of Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
An Australian man has been jailed for more than five years for duping people into sending him millions of dollars in a global Internet scam .
Nick Marinellis pleaded guilty Monday in the New South Wales District Court to 10 counts of fraud for taking part in a hoax called the Nigerian Scam .
The deception promises people millions from Nigerian bank accounts in return for an " administration fee . "
Prosecutors say Marinellis fleeced his victims of $ 3.8 million .
People in Bangladesh are bracing for a cyclone that will likely make landfall in the next few days .
Cyclone Nargis is about 1,000 kilometers from the southeastern port city of Chittagong .
Meteorologists are warning the storm could become a powerful Category Four cyclone .
Authorities are telling residents to stay alert and be prepared to evacuate .
There is also concern the storm has the potential to damage a bumper rice crop , although the country 's Agriculture Ministry spokesman , Abdulla Al-Shahin , is denying reports officials have asked farmers to rush harvesting the rice .
Farmers in Bangladesh have been in the fields harvesting the crop .
Completing the harvest could take another two weeks .
The country is still recovering from Cyclone Sidr , which hit last November , killing an estimated 3,500 people and leaving another two million homeless .
The cyclone also destroyed roughly two million tons of rice .
The opposition in Kyrgyzstan has chosen a former prime minister as its candidate to challenge incumbent President Kurmanbek Bakiyev in upcoming elections .
Social Democratic Party leader Almazbek Atambayev addressed supporters after he was named on Monday .
He repeated opposition charges the government is trying to fix the polls , set for July 23 .
Atambayev has run for president twice before ; once in 2000 , and again five years later .
In 2007 , he served as prime minister to Mr. Bakiyev , but later broke with the president .
The opposition in Kyrgyzstan is fractured and has been hurt by the arrests of some of its members .
It has accused the government of intimidation .
The president has strongly denied the allegations .
ConocoPhillips , the third-largest U.S.-based oil company , reports an 89 percent jump in profits to a record $ 3.8 billion for the third quarter .
Earnings for the three-month period ending in September reflected strong prices for the company 's crude oil and natural gas .
ConocoPhillips ' officials say their U.S. Gulf Coast operations were " significantly " hurt by hurricanes , but say repairs to refineries and other facilities are well under way .
They call the company 's operating performance " good . "
Conoco is the first of the major U.S. oil companies to report third-quarter earnings .
ExxonMobil , the world 's largest publicly traded company , is scheduled to release results on Thursday .
Chevron , the number two producer , is set to report earnings on October 28 .
An investment analyst says those companies are also expected to report increased profits .
Officials in Afghanistan say Taleban , al-Qaida and hundreds of other inmates at a high-security prison in Kabul have taken control of a prison block after clashing with security guards .
Prison officials say the riot erupted Saturday night after a group of prisoners refused to wear new prison uniforms intended to prevent inmates from mingling with visitors and possibly escaping .
Seven Taleban inmates used such a method to escape last month .
Officials say at least 1,300 prisoners were involved in the riot .
Shots were heard at the Pul-e-Charkhi prison Saturday and early Sunday .
Authorities say no guards were hurt , but several prisoners were injured .
Pul-e-Charkhi prison is a huge facility built in the 1970s where thousands of Afghans opposing communist rule in the 1980s were tortured and killed .
The prison now holds common criminals as well as al-Qaida and Taleban-linked militants .
Gunmen attacked a truck stop just outside of the Pakistani capital Wednesday , killing seven people and torching a convoy of tankers and trucks bound for NATO forces in Afghanistan .
Pakistani officials say 10 to 15 gunmen began shooting at the depot , just 10 kilometers from Islamabad , early Wednesday before setting about 60 containers on fire .
They say the attackers then fled in cars and on motorcycles .
Officials say some of the casualties were truck drivers .
One driver says he was sitting inside his truck when the attack began and heard the gunmen saying " kill the drivers " and not to let anyone escape .
Militants have attacked trucks carrying supplies for U.S. and NATO forces in the past , but this is the first attack to take place so close to Islamabad .
Officials are investigating and surveying the damage as the charred trucks sit jumbled together at the depot .
One of Iraq 's top Sunni political groups has agreed to support a new constitution in Saturday 's referendum , after reaching a deal with negotiators to consider future changes to the draft .
Iraq 's Shi'ite and Kurdish-dominated parliament is to discuss the deal at a special session later Wednesday .
Late Tuesday , Iraq 's main Sunni Arab political party ( the Iraqi Islamic Party ) announced its support for the draft constitution , after Shi'ite and Kurdish negotiators agreed to allow Parliament to consider amendments to the constitution .
It is unclear if other Sunni groups not involved in negotiations will reverse their calls for voters to reject the constitution .
U.S. officials have also been pressing Sunnis to back the constitution in the hope it will weaken the insurgency and enable the withdrawal of foreign troops .
In Baghdad today , Iraqi police say at least six people were injured when a suicide car bomber struck a government convoy .
The president of Iraq 's Kurdish autonomous region , Massoud Barzani , has rejected the Iraq Study Group 's recommendations on ways to stabilize the country .
In a statement Friday , Barzani said the U.S. group 's report has some unrealistic and inappropriate recommendations .
He said , in his words , " we are in no way abiding by the report . "
Barzani - a longtime U.S. ally - criticized the report 's authors for never visiting the Kurdish region of northern Iraq in their months-long fact finding mission .
He particularly criticized the report 's recommendation on Kirkuk , an ethnically mixed city that is key to Northern Iraq 's oil industry .
Iraq 's constitution calls for referendum on the issue before the end of 2007 , but the report calls for international arbitration to decide the city 's future because a referendum would be explosive .
Barzani says delaying the vote will have grave consequences .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili is expected in Kiev Friday to take part in a New Year 's Eve celebration rally with Ukraine 's apparent president-elect Viktor Yushchenko and his supporters .
The two men , who have warm personal ties , will ring in the new year together , days after Ukraine 's Central Election Commission declared Mr. Yushchenko the winner of last Sunday 's runoff election .
Mr. Saakashvili came to power in January after accusing his country 's government of electoral fraud and mounting a protest movement that forced then-Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze out of power .
Mr. Yushchenko 's supporters have cited Mr. Saakashvili 's " rose revolution " as an inspiration for their own movement .
Meanwhile , Ukraine 's Central Election Commission has rejected complaints of election fraud filed by Kremlin-backed Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who ran against Mr. Yushchenko .
But a spokesman for the prime minister says he will not concede the election .
China 's prime minister says his country is moving toward a more flexible foreign exchange rate , but that it will be done gradually .
Wen Jiabao spoke to reporters Wednesday after a meeting with European Union officials in The Hague , Netherlands .
He said China plans to move away from its current system , which pegs the Chinese yuan to the U.S. dollar , and toward a free-floating exchange .
But he said China will make the change on its own timetable , to preserve the nation 's economic stability .
The United States and other nations have pressed China to end its fixed rate , saying it keeps the yuan 's value unfairly low , making Chinese goods cheaper than their competition in the global marketplace .
The Egyptian ambassador to Pakistan says no Pakistanis were involved in Saturday 's bombings in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh that killed nearly 90 people .
Ambassador Hussein Haridy said Tuesday that Egyptian authorities have not accused any Pakistani of involvement in those attacks .
Monday , Egyptian police circulated photographs of several Pakistanis who had arrived in Sharm el-Sheikh earlier this month but later disappeared after leaving their passports at a hotel .
Also Monday , police clashed with Bedouin tribesmen as they searched for suspects in the mountains of Sinai 's interior .
And in Washington , President and Mrs. Bush visited the Egyptian embassy to express their condolences .
THE HARES harangued the assembly , and argued that all should be equal .
The Lions made this reply :
" Your words , O Hares ! are good ; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have . "
The United States has welcomed Ukraine 's decision to invalidate the results of a disputed presidential runoff election .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan called Friday 's court ruling an important step toward a peaceful , democratic resolution that reflects the will of the people .
Meanwhile , two top European officials are returning to Ukraine to help mediate the dispute .
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe says its secretary general , Jan Kubis , will make his third such visit to Ukraine in a week , beginning Friday .
The OSCE says Mr. Kubis will seek ways the 55-nation group can help resolve Ukraine 's political situation .
Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus will also visit , for the third time in 10 days .
Earlier , Russia 's lower house of parliament accused Western European institutions of aggravating tensions over the election .
Here are prices of some key commodities traded in New York :
Crude oil for June delivery rose $ .70 Thursday , closing at $ 50.83 cents a barrel .
Coffee for May delivery fell a bit more than two cents to close at $ 1.224 per pound .
Cocoa for May delivery fell $ 16 to close at $ 1452 per ton .
Copper for May delivery settled at $ 1.459 per pound , unchanged from yesterday .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital say an exchange of mortar fire has killed at least seven people and injured 12 others .
Residents say Wednesday 's fighting began when an African Union plane landed at Mogadishu 's main airport in defiance of a ban by the Islamist militant group al-Shabab .
The insurgents fired mortars at the airport , triggering a counter-attack .
It is not clear whether those shells came from African Union peacekeepers , Ethiopian troops , or Somali government forces .
Al-Shabab warned last month that it would attack any planes landing or taking off from the airport .
The group said the flights benefit Ethiopia , which has thousands of troops in Somalia backing the interim government .
The Somali government has urged airlines to use the airport despite the threat .
On at least two other occasions , Islamists fired on the facility after planes successfully landed .
Police in northwestern Pakistan say a suicide car bomber has killed four police officers and wounded at least eight other people .
Local authorities say the attacker blew up his explosives-laden car early Wednesday on the outskirts of Peshawar , the capital of Khyber Pakhtoonkhaw province .
The blast came a day after Pakistani security forces killed 11 militants in clashes in nearby Orakzai tribal region .
Pakistan 's military launched an anti-Taliban offensive in Orakzai in March to target militants who are believed to have fled an earlier offensive in South Waziristan .
In other violence , gunmen killed a university professor in a drive-by shooting in Quetta , the capital of southwestern Baluchistan province .
The United Nations has certified the list of registered voters in the Ivory Coast ahead of next month 's presidential elections .
On Friday , U.N. representative Choi Youn-jin called the voter list " fair , solid and balanced " .
The Ivory Coast presidential election is set for October 31 .
The election has been postponed multiple times during the past five years due in part to disputes about the nationality of names listed on the official voters ' list .
The civil war that has spilt the country for most of the decade centers around land reform and grounds for citizenship , in a nation of migrant workers helping the world 's largest producer and exporter of cocoa beans .
U.S. Senator Trent Lott has introduced a bill to re-establish the Federal Emergency Management Agency as an independent group reporting directly to the President .
The Republican from Mississippi says thousands of people in his state are still without enough help more than five months after Hurricane Katrina .
He blamed the bureaucratic inefficiencies created when FEMA was placed under the Department of Homeland Security .
FEMA was merged into the department in a massive federal restructuring after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
Senator Lott says he questioned the wisdom of the move at the time .
Former FEMA Director James Lee Witt said Thursday that FEMA has become a disgrace since the merger .
Witt , who headed the agency during the Clinton administration , said the continued emphasis on terrorism has " minimized and demoralized emergency management . "
The agency that monitors daily images of the Arctic ice pack reports the ice in early September reached its minimum but did not retreat as much this year as last .
But scientists warn that in about the last decade , the world 's sea ice has melted faster than expected .
The National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder , Colorado , which monitors the daily updates of NASA 's satellite images , says the northern winter ice now has begun to re-form .
VOA 's Paul Sisco spoke with NASA Ice Science Project chief scientist Jay Zwally about this year 's near record summer melt .
U.S. military prosecutors have filed terror-related charges against an Afghan detainee accused of launching missiles toward U.S.-occupied areas in Afghanistan several years ago .
Mohamed Kamin , who is believed to be 30 years old , was charged Wednesday with one count of providing material support for terrorism .
The charge must be approved by the Defense Department before Kamin can be tried .
Kamin allegedly trained at an al-Qaida camp .
He is also accused of conducting surveillance on U.S. military bases .
He is the 14th detainee at the U.S. military base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , selected for prosecution under a special U.S. military war-crimes tribunal .
The Guantanamo facility holds at least 275 terror suspects captured in Afghanistan and elsewhere .
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency celebrated Earth Day this week in Washington ( 22 April ) by showcasing environmentally friendly new designs that could be the wave of the future .
Producer Zulima Palacio prepared this report .
The United Nations says about 20,000 people have crossed into Uganda to escape fighting in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
A statement from the U.N. refugee agency Sunday says the refugees are camped at two locations and lack food , water , shelter and sanitation .
The fighting erupted Thursday when forces loyal to renegade DRC Army General Laurent Nkunda occupied several towns and villages .
DRC government soldiers chased them out of some areas but clashes have continued , with U.N. peacekeepers aiding the government .
The fighting is around the town of Rutshuru in North Kivu province .
U.N. and government troops have been trying to subdue various rebel and militia groups in the area in preparation for nationwide elections later this year .
Italian car company Fiat says it is interested in taking over Opel , the German division of financially troubled U.S. carmaker General Motors .
Fiat chief Luca Cordero di Montezemolo told Italy 's Corriere della Sera newspaper that Opel is an " ideal partner . "
He said a takeover would be an " extraordinary opportunity . "
Opel has been suffering through the world economic crisis along with many other global automakers .
But the German government says it has no plans to offer direct help to Opel .
Fiat is involved in plans to buy another beleaguered U.S. car company , Chrysler , which entered into bankruptcy protection last week .
The White House says it is renewing a U.S. ban on trade with Burma because it says the actions and policies of Rangoon 's military government are hostile to U.S. interests .
A White House statement Tuesday said the ban enacted in 1997 has been renewed for another year because Burma 's military government is committing large-scale repression of the Burmese democratic opposition .
Also Tuesday , the State Department issued a warning to Americans traveling in Burma , telling them to use caution in public places because of the danger of more bombings like the three blasts that killed at least 20 people in Rangoon on May 7 .
Burmese authorities Tuesday doubled the reward for anyone giving information leading to the bombers ' arrests .
The new reward equals nearly $ 11,000 .
Bulgaria has extradited the nephew of former Turkish president Suleyman Demirel to Turkey , where he is wanted for massive fraud .
Yahya Murat Demirel and his wife , Aysegul Esenler , were arrested in the Black Sea port city of Bourgas on December 31 when they tried to enter Bulgaria illegally .
Mr. Demirel had been forbidden by Turkish courts to leave the country , where he is on trial in connection with the collapse of Turkish Egebank , which he owned .
He and his wife were delivered to Turkish authorities Friday morning .
A White House report has called for changes in the government 's response to disasters such as Hurricane Katrina .
The report , by domestic security adviser Frances Townsend , says 11 reforms are urgently needed before the start of a new hurricane season in June .
President Bush discussed the report with his cabinet Thursday , saying the reforms will help the government be better prepared for future disasters .
The changes include improved coordination with military officials during relief operations , a review of local evacuation plans and getting help more quickly to disaster victims .
The report also found flaws in the government 's response to Hurricane Katrina last year , such as failures in disaster management and planning .
Earlier this month , a congressional investigation blamed failures at all levels of government for the suffering and loss of life in the Gulf Coast storm .
A convoy of dozens of trucks transporting a massive oil drilling machine arrived Friday at the site of the San Jose gold and copper mine in Chile , where 33 miners are trapped .
The drill is the third one being employed to try to rescue the miners , who have now been underground for 36 days .
It has been labeled " Plan C " and it is hoped that it will speed the rescue effort .
However , freedom for the trapped miners is likely to still be months away .
The 33 men were trapped by a mine cave-in on August 5 .
But it was not until August 22 that they were discovered alive .
Rescuers have been sending food , medicine and relatives ' letters through a chute to where the miners are located , 700 meters below the surface .
European Union representatives are traveling to the Middle East Sunday in hopes of persuading Israeli and Palestinian leaders to move toward a humanitarian truce in the Gaza Strip .
The EU says it is sending Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenburg along with the EU 's external relations commissioner and Schwarzenburg 's French and Swedish counterparts .
It says the team will visit Egypt today before meeting with Israel 's Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and President Shimon Peres in Jerusalem on Monday .
The team will then go to the West Bank town of Ramallah and finish up its Middle East trip in Jordan on Tuesday .
The EU says French President Nicolas Sarkozy will also attend the meeting in Ramallah with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Mr. Sarkozy also plans to visit Israel , Egypt , Syria and Lebanon this week .
The European Union is the biggest foreign aid donor to the Palestinian territories .
A public display of affection got Richard Gere in trouble with Indian moviegoers .
Irate fans burned the Hollywood actor in effigy April 16 , after he repeatedly kissed movie actress Shilpa Shetty during an AIDS awareness event in New Delhi .
The 58-year-old Gere was in India to participate in a safe sex campaign directed at truck drivers .
Of all nations , India has the largest number of people living with HIV .
During the ceremony , Gere repeatedly kissed Shetty 's hand and cheeks .
Protesters say the actions , shown repeatedly on Indian television , violate standards of propriety .
Thirty-one-year-old Shilpa Shetty attracted headlines earlier this year after winning Britain 's " Celebrity Big Brother " reality TV contest .
Her spokesman Dale Bhagwagar said the media should concentrate on AIDS education rather than sensationalizing trivial incidents .
Romania 's main opposition candidate has called for a repeat of Sunday 's first round of presidential and parliamentary elections , alleging widespread electoral fraud .
Among other allegations , centrist coalition leader Traian Basescu said Tuesday the ruling Social Democrats chartered dozens of buses to allow supporters to go from precinct to precinct and cast ballots several times .
With 90 percent of the votes counted , Prime Minister Adrian Nastase and his Social Democrats lead Mr. Basescu 's centrist alliance 36 percent to 31 percent in the parliamentary election .
The presidential election tally has Mr. Nastase ahead of Mr. Basescu 40 to 34 percent .
The two candidates are scheduled to face each other in a runoff election on December 12 .
Pro Democratia , a Romanian civil rights group , says it will pull its election monitors from the second round of voting to protest reported irregularities .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is in Havana for talks with Cuban leader Fidel Castro .
The two close allies met at the Palace of the Revolution Tuesday .
Their agenda was not made public , but experts say they likely discussed Cuba 's energy needs .
Venezuela provides about one-third of Cuba 's oil .
Mr. Castro has appeared in public in a wheelchair since an accidental fall in October .
But he was shown standing next to Mr. Chavez in an official photo taken when he welcomed him at the Havana airport late Monday .
The two countries have close political , economic and cultural ties .
Havana has sent hundreds of health care workers and teachers to its South American ally .
Kenyan police say they have asked U.S. officials from the FBI to help investigate the killing of three policemen .
Police commissioner Mathew Iteere said Saturday that he expects the FBI to join in the probe .
Kenyan police say they hope to draw on the FBI 's experience dealing with explosives and tracing the origins of arms .
The three policemen were killed in two attacks in the capital , Nairobi , Friday .
One police officer was killed when a grenade was thrown into his vehicle .
The two other officers were killed in a gun attack when two men on a motorbike opened fire .
Police say the two attackers were chased by police and shot and killed .
Officials are trying to identify the attackers and determine the motive for the killings .
Millions of striking workers brought parts of India to a standstill Tuesday as they protested price hikes and alleged anti-labor policies .
Leftist trade unions called the nationwide day-long strike to express building anger and frustration over the rising cost of living and plans by government to disinvest from public sector companies .
The strikes , which only materialized in the eastern state of West Bengal and the southwestern state of Kerala , shut down schools , shops , banks and disrupted some airline flights .
About one million bank employees joined in the work stoppage .
Tuesday 's demonstrations come two months after main opposition parties led a one-day strike over fuel prices hikes , leaving some regions at a similar standstill .
Inflation in India has been nearing double digits in recent months .
The World Health Organization estimates that between five and 10 percent of us suffer from depression at any given time .
But fewer than a third of those with depression receive appropriate care .
In the United States , more than 21 million people suffer from depression .
For millions , no treatment works .
Now , doctors are trying an experimental technique that shows promise in treating some difficult cases of depression .
VOA 's Carol Pearson reports .
The chairman of Ghana ’s independent electoral commission says there is one more constituency yet to be determined before declaring the winner of Sunday ’s election run-off .
Chairman Kojo Afari Djan , however said the winner of the election would be determined Friday after voters in Tain constituency in the Brong Ahafo region cast their votes .
This comes after both the ruling New Patriotic party ( NPP ) and main opposition National Democratic Congress ( NDC ) parties made allegations of fraud , which forced the electoral commission to suspend voting in that constituency .
Tain is expected to be a stronghold of the opposition NDC .
France 's interior minister says at least 10 French citizens are in Iraq ready to become suicide bombers .
Nicolas Sarkozy told France-3 television Monday that French intelligence has lost track of at least 10 young Frenchmen who have gone to Iraq .
He said 10 others have died in combat or suicide bombings or are prisoners of the U.S. led coalition .
France has no soldiers in Iraq .
Mr. Sarkozy defended the government 's planned new anti-terrorism measures , saying the risk of an attack in France is very high .
The new measures include more video surveillance on the streets and public places , and increased monitoring of overseas travelers .
Mr. Sarkozy said a French citizen who suddenly goes to Afghanistan for three months should account for his travels .
Togo 's election commission says ruling party candidate Faure Gnassingbe is the winner of Sunday 's presidential election .
The commission chief ( Kissem Tchangai-Walla ) says Mr. Gnassingbe , son of the late longtime leader Gnassingbe Eyadema , won with just over 60 percent of votes cast .
Minutes after the announcement , angry opposition youths poured onto the streets of Togo 's capital , Lome , setting up burning barricades , throwing rocks and attacking cars .
Street violence and allegations of fraud on both sides marred Sunday 's election , which was organized under pressure by West African leaders after the military briefly installed Mr. Gnassingbe following his father 's death in February .
According to the electoral commission , opposition candidate Emmanual Akitani-Bob won just over 38 percent of the vote .
The third candidate , Harry Olympio , came in last with under one-percent ( 0.55 ) .
Doctors at Jerusalem 's Hadassah Hospital have inserted a feeding tube into the stomach of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon .
A hospital statement says Mr. Sharon remained in critical but stable condition after the procedure , called a gastrostomy .
It did not say why the operation was necessary .
One stroke expert says the procedure is recommended when patients are not expected to make a swift recovery .
Mr. Sharon suffered a massive stroke on January 4 .
Surgical teams at the hospital operated twice on the prime minister to reduce swelling in the brain .
Since then , attempts to bring Mr. Sharon out of a coma have been unsuccessful .
Mr. Sharon did open his eyes briefly .
Medical experts have said it is unlikely that the prime minister , if he does emerge from the coma , will be able to resume normal activities .
Deputy prime minister Ehud Olmert is serving as acting prime minister .
Germans could find out who their next leader will be after Monday 's coalition talks between Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and conservative leader Angela Merkel .
The two ended several hours of discussions Sunday without comment .
But German news reports say a deal could be announced Monday in which Ms. Merkel would become the new chancellor while giving additional cabinet posts to the rival party .
Ms. Merkel 's Christian Democrats won four more seats than Mr. Schroeder 's Social Democrats in last month 's parliamentary elections .
Neither party won a mandate , and Mr. Schroeder has so far refused to concede defeat .
Even after a deal is struck , both parties say it would take weeks to form a new government .
A Lebanese prosecutor has charged a retired general and three other people with spying for Israel .
Retired Brigadier General Abid al-Aalam , his wife , nephew and a fourth suspect were charged Thursday with providing information to Israel about military and civilian Lebanese and Syrian centers , with the aim of facilitating Israeli attacks .
If convicted , the four could face the death penalty .
Aalam , his wife , Hayat Saloumi and nephew were arrested earlier this month on suspicion of espionage .
The fourth suspect remains at large .
Judicial officials say Aalam also is charged with the illegal possession of weapons , and that he and his wife allegedly crossed into Israel without permission .
Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah fought a 34-day war in 2006 , which killed 1,200 Lebanese and nearly 160 Israelis .
Russia 's state-controlled natural gas monopoly Gazprom says it is seeking to more than double the gas price for neighboring Georgia , amid a simmering political crisis between the two sides .
Gazprom officials said Thursday that it plans to charge Tbilisi $ 230 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas , up from $ 110 now .
The announcement comes after Georgia 's Foreign Minister Gela Bezhuashvili held talks in Moscow Wednesday with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov - the first high-level meeting between the countries since tensions increased over alleged spying .
Georgia arrested four Russian military officers on suspicion of spying in September , releasing them a few days later .
Moscow retaliated by cutting all transportation and postal links with Georgia .
Tensions between the two countries were already high because of the presence of Russian peacekeepers in the two breakaway Georgian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
Brazilians have soundly rejected a proposal to ban all gun sales in the country .
With over 90 percent of the vote counted , the electoral court says that 64 percent of those who went to the polls voted against the ban in Sunday 's referendum , while 36 percent favored it .
Over 36 thousand people were shot and killed in Brazil last year .
The United Nations ranks Brazil second in the world in gun deaths , behind only Venezuela .
Supporters of the ban on gun sales said that people voted against it because they have no confidence in the government and its ability to provide security .
In recent weeks opponents had waged a media campaign , arguing that average Brazilians need guns to protect themselves from drug gangs and thieves .
Final results are expected Monday .
Israeli doctors say the condition of former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has deteriorated more than six months after he fell into a coma .
A spokesman for the hospital treating Mr. Sharon says over the past two days , doctors have identified a deterioration in his kidney function and changes in brain tissue .
The hospital in Tel Aviv says doctors are carrying out more tests to determine the appropriate treatment for Mr. Sharon .
He went into the coma after suffering a massive brain hemorrhage January 4 .
The United States and Britain have called for international pressure against Syria after a U.N. report implicated Syrian officials in the killing of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw made the appeal in a joint interview with British radio on Sunday .
Ms. Rice said a firm response is needed .
The U.N. report also said that Syrian officials gave false testimony to investigators in the case .
Syrian officials have denied the allegations .
And Sunday , a key Syrian political group - National Progressive Front - rejected the U.N. report , saying it was based on testimony from people lacking credibility .
Syria 's official news agency reported President Bashar al-Assad sent a message to members of the U.N. Security Council , which is expected to consider sanctions over the killing .
The European Union 's second highest court has ruled the bloc has the right to freeze the assets of citizens the United Nations suspects of terrorist links .
The Luxembourg-based Court of First Instance says the EU has the right freeze the accounts of individuals in connection with the fight against international terrorism .
It issued the ruling Wednesday in response to a case brought by at least three people whose assets were frozen because of suspected links to Osama bin Laden .
The court added that freezing assets does not violate universally recognized human rights .
The U.N. Security Council in 1999 called on nations to freeze the assets of groups and individuals with suspected links to Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaida network and Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime .
The United Nations refugee agency says four armed men attacked one of its field offices in Darfur , shooting a guard in the leg .
Spokeswoman Jennifer Pagonis says no one else was hurt in the attack .
It occurred late Monday in Habila , in western Darfur .
She says the men stole communications equipment before leaving .
It is unclear whether the attackers belonged to any of the rebel groups or government-backed militias active in the western Sudanese region .
Violence still plagues Darfur despite a recent peace agreement between the Sudanese government and Darfur rebel groups .
Some rebels have refused to sign the accord .
It is designed to end more than three years of fighting that has killed more than 180,000 people .
Israeli officials say they will allow 16 Palestinians who were expelled to the Gaza Strip to return home to the West Bank Friday , in the latest goodwill gesture to the Palestinians .
The 16 are the first of an expected 55 to be allowed to return after the Israeli army expelled them for security reasons .
Also Thursday , the Israeli army announced that Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz decided to stop the controversial practice of destroying the family homes of Palestinians suspected of carrying out suicide attacks against Israeli targets .
The army referred to a study that found the policy did little to deter militant attacks and that it spawned hatred towards Israel in the Palestinian territories .
A United Nations Human Rights Council investigation has criticized Israel 's military for attacking civilians in Lebanon during the conflict with Hezbollah earlier this year .
In a report issued Tuesday , a team of rights experts said the civilian attacks were " flagrant violations " of human rights laws .
They also said Israel 's military engaged in a pattern of " excessive , indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force " in the month-long conflict .
The report also accused Hezbollah militants of using United Nations officials as human shields to launch attacks against Israeli forces in Lebanon .
But the inquiry did not include a mandate to study Hezbollah actions in the conflict .
Also Tuesday , the rights group Amnesty International urged U.N. officials to do an independent probe into alleged violations during the conflict .
The U.S. House of Representatives has narrowly passed a plan to cut federal spending by nearly $ 40 billion over the next five years .
The bill includes cuts in health care and other social welfare programs .
Lawmakers approved the measure by a vote of 212-to-206 .
During the overnight session , the house also passed a $ 453 billion dollar defense bill by a vote of 308-to-106 .
It includes money for hurricane relief , bird flu preventive measures , oil drilling in Alaska 's Arctic wildlife refuge , and military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Many Democrats complained they were forced to approve the oil drilling provision , which they oppose , because it was attached to the defense bill .
The measures will be debated by the Senate this week .
Lawmakers are trying to finish major pieces of legislation before a long holiday recess .
Hundreds of Cubans lined up outside the Spanish embassy in Havana Monday , hoping to apply for citizenship based on their Spanish ancestry .
A law now in effect in Spain offers citizenship to the descendants of Spaniards who fled the country for political reasons .
The measure targets families who emigrated during and after the Spanish Civil War and the ensuing dictatorship of General Francisco Franco .
Those accepted do not have to renounce their current citizenship .
But citizens of communist Cuba must get permission from the Havana government to travel to Spain if they are accepted for Spanish citizenship .
Officials estimate that some 500,000 people living in Latin American countries such as Cuba , Argentina , Mexico , Venezuela , Chile and Uruguay are eligible for citizenship .
Argentina alone is expected to have some 300,000 eligible beneficiaries .
An independent polling firm in Venezuela says President Hugo Chavez is gaining support for a February 15 referendum that would abolish term limits and allow him to seek re-election indefinitely .
The Datanalisis firm says a survey of 1,300 people indicates that more than 51 percent of voters support a constitutional amendment to end term limits for all elected officials .
Last month , another Datanalisis poll put support for President Chavez 's proposal at below 40 percent .
The current constitution bans the president from running again when his term ends in 2012 .
In late 2007 , voters narrowly rejected a package of measures including one that would have eliminated presidential term limits .
In a speech at that time , Mr. Chavez said the defeat was only " for now " and that he would continue his battle to build socialism .
Mr. Chavez was first elected in 1998 .
He won approval for a new constitution the following year .
The Pakistani army says its troops pushed farther into a northwestern militant stronghold Sunday , a day after the military said it captured the hometown of a Taliban leader .
The military says helicopters provided air support as Pakistani ground troops pushed from the strategic town of Kotkai and moved deeper into South Waziristan along the Afghan border .
Kotkai is the hometown of Taliban chief Hakimullah Mehsud .
Elsewhere , authorities say a suicide bomber killed one police officer east of the capital , Islamabad , on Sunday .
Officials say the bomber detonated his explosives when police stopped his car for a search .
Police say they detained another man who had been in the car but left the vehicle before the bomb exploded .
Meanwhile , the Pakistani army has raised the death toll from Saturday 's helicopter crash in the Bajur tribal region .
It says six soldiers died in what officials are calling an accident .
Russian officials say drawings by an acclaimed Russian artist worth millions of dollars have vanished from a state archive .
Authorities said Tuesday that about 2,000 drawings by avant-garde artist and architect Yakov Chernikhov are missing from the state archive of literature and art .
Officials say 274 drawings have been found with antiques dealers and will be returned .
This is the second major art theft announced in Russia in the past week .
Last week , officials said more than 220 objects had been taken from St. Petersburg 's famed Hermitage museum .
At least three people have been detained in connection with that crime , including the husband and son of a museum curator .
Authorities say several of the items have been recovered , including a gilded silver cross and a silver ladle found Tuesday outside the St. Petersburg headquarters of the Russian security service , the F.S.B .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has visited eastern Ukraine , the stronghold of his election rival , former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
Happy supporters and hostile opponents greeted the Ukrainian leader as he arrived in Donetsk Thursday for a brief visit .
Mr. Yushchenko said he was in the mining region for a friendly visit , decried the economic problems facing the area , and pledged to help improve the lives of citizens .
He also introduced the region 's new governor , Vadym Chuprun .
Most area residents backed Mr. Yanukovych in last year 's presidential election .
Some politicians even suggested autonomy for eastern Ukraine as the country dealt with months of political uncertainty before and after a flawed November presidential election .
Mr. Yushchenko went on to win a court-ordered re-vote in December , but was not officially declared the winner until January , while the Supreme Court reviewed election complaints from Mr. Yanukovych .
Campaigning draws to a close Sunday in Egypt 's first multi-candidate presidential election .
Incumbent president Hosni Mubarak , who faces nine rivals , is expected to hold a final rally of his ruling National Democratic party today before Wednesday 's poll .
Despite facing electoral opponents for the first time , President Mubarak is widely expected to win a fifth term .
Ayman Nour , one of Mr. Mubarak 's most prominent opponents , addressed a crowd in the heart of Cairo late Saturday after touring the country .
Mr. Nour and his Ghad party have led the most aggressive campaign , linking the Mubarak government to years of oppression , economic crisis , and joblessness .
In February , President Mubarak proposed holding contested presidential elections to replace a system where parliament nominated a single candidate for approval in a referendum .
This desolate , arctic , mountainous island was named after a Dutch whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614 ( earlier claims are inconclusive ) .
Visited only occasionally by seal hunters and trappers over the following centuries , the island came under Norwegian sovereignty in 1929 .
The long dormant Beerenberg volcano resumed activity in 1970 ; the most recent eruption occurred in 1985 .
It is the northernmost active volcano on earth .
Arab diplomats are due to meet with Lebanese leaders in Beirut Monday to discuss an Arab League proposal to resolve the political crisis in the country .
Sudanese presidential adviser Mustafa Ismail will meet government and opposition leaders after talks with Syrian officials in Damascus .
Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa will join him in Beirut Tuesday .
Both men held separate talks in Beirut last week .
Hundreds of thousands of Hezbollah protesters and allies of the Shi'ite militant group attended a rally in central Beirut Sunday .
The demonstrators were pressing demands for a national unity government that grants more power to Hezbollah and its allies .
Ismail told Arabiya television that all parties in Lebanon had agreed to Arab League mediation .
The mediation proposal is reported to include a unity government , early national elections and passage of a U.N.-proposed international tribunal to try suspects in last year 's assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri .
A prominent human rights group says Hamas militants committed war crimes when they launched rocket attacks against Israel .
A Human Rights Watch spokesman said Hamas rocket attacks that targeted Israeli citizens were " unlawful and unjustifiable " .
A new report released by the group says Hamas militants fired rockets that placed about 800,000 Israeli civilians at risk and killed two Israeli girls .
It also says militants that launched rockets from densely populated areas placed Gaza civilians at risk of Israeli counter strikes .
The report focuses on Hamas tactics used just before and during Israel 's three-week offensive in Gaza , from last November to mid-January .
Human Rights Watch and other rights groups have repeatedly accused Israel of committing war crimes .
At least 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed during the Israeli offensive .
Police in South Korea have arrested a man and six women who they say used the Internet to buy and sell human eggs , in violation of the country 's bioethics law .
Seoul police arrested the man Saturday .
They say he is in his late 20s and identified him only as Kim .
Police say the women sold or bought the eggs , using web sites created by Mr. Kim to arrange the deals .
Police said the deals involved thousands of dollars .
Under South Korean law , buyers and sellers of human eggs or sperm face up to three years in prison .
The broker faces two years .
Britain 's American colonies broke with the mother country in 1776 and were recognized as the new nation of the United States of America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783 .
During the 19th and 20th centuries , 37 new states were added to the original 13 as the nation expanded across the North American continent and acquired a number of overseas possessions .
The two most traumatic experiences in the nation 's history were the Civil War ( 1861 - 65 ) , in which a northern Union of states defeated a secessionist Confederacy of 11 southern slave states , and the Great Depression of the 1930s , an economic downturn during which about a quarter of the labor force lost its jobs .
Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the end of the Cold War in 1991 , the US remains the world 's most powerful nation state .
Over a span of more than five decades , the economy has achieved steady growth , low unemployment and inflation , and rapid advances in technology .
Danish naval officials said they have turned over five suspected Somali pirates to officials in the Netherlands .
A spokesman for the Danish Navy said Tuesday that the men have been handed over to a Dutch representative in Bahrain and are expected to be flown to the Netherlands to stand trial .
The navy said the men were captured January 2 after they allegedly attacked a Dutch cargo ship off the coast of Somalia .
The Danish combat ship Absalon came to the scene and fired a flare at the pirates ' boat , which caught fire and began to sink .
The alleged pirates were pulled from the sea and had been held prisoner on the Absalon since the incident .
The Danish ship is part of an international anti-piracy force patrolling the waters off Somalia .
Somali pirates have hijacked three ships this year , after seizing more 40 vessels during 2008 .
Floods and landslides in the wake of Hurricane Stan have killed at least 617 people throughout Central America and Mexico .
More than 500 people were killed in Guatemala , which sustained the worst blow from last week 's storm .
At least 1,400 other people are missing and presumed dead in the Guatemalan village of Panabaj .
The Mayan Indian village was buried in a mudslide triggered by Stan 's torrential rains .
Rescue workers are digging through tons of mud and rock searching for victims , but the town may eventually be declared a mass burial site .
The remainder of the dead are scattered throughout El Salvador , Nicaragua and Mexico .
Entire families are either dead or missing in some communities .
The disaster has left thousands of people homeless .
Rescue crews have been unable to reach some isolated communities because many bridges and roads were washed out in the storm .
U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy is undergoing further tests at a hospital in the northeastern state of Massachusetts - two days after having a seizure .
A spokeswoman for Kennedy Monday said it is not clear when his doctor will release information about his condition .
The 76-year-old Democrat is expected to stay in the hospital for the next couple of days .
Associates of Kennedy said Sunday he was resting , eating and watching sports on television .
Kennedy , who has had health problems in the past , was rushed to the hospital on Saturday after suffering a seizure .
The Massachusetts lawmaker has served in the Senate for more than 45 years , and is the youngest brother of the late President John F. Kennedy , who was assassinated in 1963 .
The Italian Foreign Ministry says a group of tourists , including 21 Italians , have been found in southeastern Niger a day after an attack by bandits .
Details of the incident are sketchy , but the ministry said in a statement Tuesday that the tourists may have been kidnapped in Niger near the border with Chad on Monday .
It added that the group may have been held for a ransom demand .
Earlier , the ministry said it was sending a diplomat to Niger from its mission in Ivory Coast in an effort to resolve the situation .
Tropical Storm Beta , the record 23rd storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , has strengthened since developing in the southwestern Caribbean late Wednesday .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Beta is expected to dump up to 25 centimeters of rain across western Panama , Costa Rica , northeastern Honduras , Nicaragua , and the Colombian islands of San Andres and Providencia .
At last report the storm was located 115 kilometers south-southeast of San Andres Island and about 260 kilometers east of Bluefields , Nicaragua .
Forecasters say Beta is expected to continue slowly drifting north , bringing its center near San Andres on Friday .
Colombia has issued a hurricane warning for San Andres and Providencia .
A hurricane watch is in effect for Nicaragua 's entire Caribbean coast .
Tropical Storm Beta is not expected to threaten the United States .
An influential Iranian cleric is calling on Muslim nations to help Lebanon 's Hezbollah guerrillas in their fight against Israel .
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati , who heads the powerful Guardian Council , told the Iranian Students News Agency Tuesday that he wants Muslims worldwide to provide arms for Hezbollah , as well political and financial support for the militants .
Israel , the United States and allied Western states accuse Syria and Iran of supporting Hezbollah with arms and cash .
Iran says it provides only moral and diplomatic support for the Shi'ite Islamic group .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has marked his first 100 days in office with a vow to maintain the struggle against poverty as his main priority .
He made the comments in pre-recorded message marking the 100-day milestone .
Mr. Yushchenko was elected in a re-vote in December after the country 's Supreme Court threw out flawed November elections .
Tens of thousands of Yushchenko supporters had packed the streets of Kiev to demand the fresh election .
During his time in office , pensions and some incomes have increased , and he has sought to expand integration with the West .
A recent public opinion poll from the Democratic Initiatives Foundation put his approval rating at 60 percent .
But some in Ukraine have complained about the economy and inflation after a decision to revalue the national currency .
Members of the former government say they are victims of political persecution as the new administration pursues anti-corruption efforts .
An electric company in the sunny western U.S. state of California plans to begin installing solar panels on rooftops of commercial buildings to produce environmentally friendly energy .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has the story .
A senior leader for the Palestinian militant group Hamas is in Egypt to resume talks on the future of Egypt 's border with the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip .
Palestinian and Egyptian security sources say Mahmoud al-Zahar crossed into Egypt Thursday with a small delegation of Hamas officials .
They say the delegation will meet with Egyptian security officials in the Mediterranean coastal town of El~Arish for talks on the border situation .
Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians streamed into Egypt to buy food and supplies after Hamas militants blew up a section of the border wall last month in response to an Israeli blockade of Gaza .
Egyptian forces resealed the barrier February 3 .
Zahar met with Egyptian authorities in Cairo earlier this month to discuss ways to restore control at the Gaza border .
Egypt has since said it will no longer tolerate Palestinians trying to enter the country illegally through the border .
The U.S. military says rescue teams have reached the wreckage of a helicopter that went down Tuesday in eastern Afghanistan , but there is still no word on the fate of the 17 U.S. troops on board .
A spokesman , Lt. Col. Jerry O'Hara , told reporters in Kabul Thursday that military rescuers are at the site and that recovery operations are continuing .
He did not elaborate .
Military officials say it appears the Chinook helicopter was brought down by hostile fire .
The helicopter crashed in remote mountainous terrain west of Kunar province 's capital , Asadabad , while transporting troops as part of an ongoing operation against suspected Taleban and al-Qaida terrorists .
Shortly after the crash , the Taleban said it shot down the aircraft .
The U.S. military in Iraq says coalition forces have captured a suspected terrorist with close ties to Iran 's elite Quds force .
A military statement Friday said the suspect was detained in a raid Thursday near Baqubah , and that he allegedly facilitated the transport of weapons and personnel from Iran to Iraq .
The statement said the suspect also is believed to have facilitated the flow of sophisticated roadside bombs into Iraq from Iran to be used against coalition forces .
The bombs - known as explosively formed projectiles or EFPs - can penetrate armor .
Iran has denied U.S. charges that it is providing weapons and training to Shi'ite militants in Iraq .
Iran and the U.S. discussed Iraq 's security situation in May , during the highest-level talks between the two countries in nearly 30 years .
Both sides have said they are ready for a second round of talks on Iraq .
NATO foreign ministers meeting in Brussels have agreed the alliance will boost its training force for Iraqi security forces .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer says the number of personnel will increase from its current level of 60 to 300 officers .
He says several countries , including Poland , Hungary and the Netherlands have volunteered to provide troops .
Other countries like France and Germany have refused to contribute , saying they do not want the alliance to be drawn into peacekeeping duties in Iraq .
The ministers also discussed expanding the 5,000 strong NATO-led peacekeeping force in Afghanistan .
At a separate meeting , the NATO ministers and their Russian counterpart , Sergei Lavrov , urged Ukrainians to work to ensure a free , fair and violence-free process in the upcoming run-off presidential election .
The NATO meeting was the last for U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell , who is leaving the Bush administration .
Europeans began to set up trading posts in the area of Bangladesh in the 16th century ; eventually the British came to dominate the region and it became part of British India .
In 1947 , West Pakistan and East Bengal ( both primarily Muslim ) separated from India ( largely Hindu ) and jointly became the new country of Pakistan .
East Bengal became East Pakistan in 1955 , but the awkward arrangement of a two-part country with its territorial units separated by 1,600 km left the Bengalis marginalized and dissatisfied .
East Pakistan seceded from its union with West Pakistan in 1971 and was renamed Bangladesh .
A military-backed , emergency caretaker regime suspended parliamentary elections planned for January 2007 in an effort to reform the political system and root out corruption .
In contrast to the strikes and violent street rallies that had marked Bangladeshi politics in previous years , the parliamentary elections finally held in late December 2008 were mostly peaceful and Sheikh HASINA Wajed was elected prime minister .
About a third of this extremely poor country floods annually during the monsoon rainy season , hampering economic development .
The Turks and Caicos economy is based on tourism , offshore financial services , and fishing .
Most capital goods and food for domestic consumption are imported .
The US is the leading source of tourists , accounting for more than three-quarters of the 175,000 visitors that arrived in 2004 .
Major sources of government revenue also include fees from offshore financial activities and customs receipts .
An audit by a U.S. inspector says the U.S.-led authority that governed Iraq after the 2003 invasion failed to keep track of nearly $ 9 billion it transferred to Iraqi ministries .
The audit released Sunday by the U.S. Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction says the Coalition Provisional Authority failed to establish control systems to verify how the money was spent , which opened it to corruption .
In some instances , money was used to pay what the report calls " ghost " employees , explaining that out of 8,206 guards on the payroll at one ministry , only 602 could be accounted for .
Former CPA chief Paul Bremer rejected the findings , saying the report assumes western-style accounting procedures could have been quickly set up during wartime .
Mr. Bremer says delaying payment to Iraqi public servants could have created additional security threats .
An Indonesian newspaper is reporting that Indonesian police have arrested a man believed to have played a key role in September 's car bombing outside the Australian Embassy in Jakarta .
Indonesia 's leading newspaper , Kompas , quotes police sources as saying Iwan Darmawan , also known as Rois , was arrested two weeks ago on Java island .
The newspaper quoted the police sources as saying Mr. Darmawan is accused of having a key planning role in the September 9 embassy attack , which killed 10 people .
He is also accused of being involved in the 2002 Bali bombings , as well as last year 's car bombing attack on a Jakarta luxury hotel .
Police have said two Malaysian militants , who remain at large , are the masterminds of the embassy attack .
South Africa 's public sector unions are threatening to strike during the World Cup because of a wage dispute .
The unions , which represent some 1.2 million workers , issued the threat on Thursday after rejecting the government 's latest wage offer .
A strike would put nurses and police officers off the job as South Africa hosts one of the world 's biggest sporting events .
Manie de Clerq , head of the Public Servants Association , says a strike may also include immigration officials , who may be needed to help World Cup tourists .
Other South African unions have taken advantage of the World Cup to demand and receive significant pay increases .
Most recently , port and railroad workers received an 11 percent wage hike after a three-week strike .
The public sector unions are demanding an 8.5 percent pay increase .
The government has offered 6.2 percent .
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries kept oil production targets unchanged at a meeting Friday in Vienna , rebuffing a request from President Bush to increase output .
Many members of OPEC have said current high oil prices are the result of speculation by investors , not a shortage of oil on the market .
Oil producers are also concerned that economic problems in the United States could depress demand for energy , which would push down the price of oil .
OPEC pumps about 40 percent of the world 's oil , while the United States is the world 's largest economy and energy consumer .
Some of the latest secret U.S. cables released by WikiLeaks say Saudi Arabia proposed deploying an Arab military force backed by the U.N. , U.S. and NATO to crush Hezbollah forces in Lebanon .
According to the cables , Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said in May 2008 that what he called a " security response " was needed to prevent the militant group - and its patron , Iran - from taking power in the Lebanese capital , Beirut .
The exchange between al-Faisal and U.S. diplomat David Satterfield took place days after Hezbollah had briefly seized control of large sections of Beruit during fighting with pro-government supporters .
Al-Faisal told Satterfield that only the Lebanese prime minister , Jordan , Egypt and the Arab League were aware of the plan .
The U.S. responded by questioning the political and military feasibility of the plan .
Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English colonists headed for Virginia .
Tourism to the island to escape North American winters first developed in Victorian times .
Tourism continues to be important to the island 's economy , although international business has overtaken it in recent years .
Bermuda has developed into a highly successful offshore financial center .
Although a referendum on independence from the UK was soundly defeated in 1995 , the present government has reopened debate on the issue .
A Sri Lankan aid agency with ties to Tamil Tiger rebels says two of 10 reportedly kidnapped employees have returned to their families , but that eight others are still missing .
The Tamil Rehabilitation Organization says five aid workers disappeared Tuesday after leaving Batticaloa district by vehicle .
It says a day earlier , five other staff members traveling from the same district also were kidnapped .
Agency officials say they are not sure exactly what happened because the two employees , both women , are too scared to talk .
The rebels have accused Sri Lankan authorities of being behind the abductions .
The authorities say the claims are untrue .
After the first reported kidnapping , the rebels threatened to pull out of upcoming peace talks in Switzerland unless the government does more to protect Tamils .
A declassified letter from a U.S. congressional leader suggests the National Security Agency ( NSA ) may have begun domestic eavesdropping without specific permission from President Bush .
The letter from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi , dated October 2001 , asked General Michael Hayden , then NSA chief , if the president had specifically approved the expansion of NSA surveillance powers described in a House intelligence committee briefing .
General Hayden replied later that month that he used only " his authorities " to adjust NSA information-collecting and reporting policies .
Parts of both letters were edited for security reasons .
Newspaper reports revealed the domestic spying program last month .
President Bush has said he ordered the agency , which normally monitors foreign communications , to begin domestic wiretapping in order to fight terrorism .
Critics say the operation disregards U.S. privacy law .
Police in Belarus have detained about 40 activists who tried to stage a protest outside the Russian embassy in Minsk .
Authorities blocked off access to the embassy before the planned protest and picked up the activists as they gathered .
Those detained included United Civic Party leader Anatol Liabedzka .
Opposition activists gather in various locations in Minsk on the 16th of each month to mark a day of solidarity with political prisoners .
The date was chosen after a leading opposition activist , Anatoly Krasovsky , disappeared on September 16 , 1999 .
Activists say they chose the Russian embassy as the site of Sunday 's protest in hopes of bringing the situation in Belarus to the attention of the Group of Eight summit in the Russian city of St. Petersburg .
Activists in Belarus have repeatedly staged protests since the country 's March presidential election which western governments and opposition groups have described as fraudulent .
The Olympic torch relay has reached Turin in northern Italy , where the 20th Olympic Winter Games open Friday .
The Olympic flame was carried by more than 10,000 torchbearers in a 64-day journey that covered 11,300 kilometers .
The flame was lit at Olympia in Greece two months ago .
Shortly before midday local time Thursday , the torch entered Turin through the Piazza Massaua .
It was received by the City Police Band before being carried to the city center .
Turin-born Livio Berruti , the 200-meter gold medalist at the 1960 Olympics , will light the cauldron in Piazza Palazzo di Citta .
But the identity of person who will light the Olympic cauldron on Friday remains a tightly guarded secret .
The games end February 26 .
The National Football League playoffs continue Saturday when the Pittsburgh Steelers host the New York Jets and Atlanta takes on Saint Louis .
The Jets are coming off last week 's 20-17 overtime win over the San Diego Chargers .
Pittsburgh had last week off , and beat the Jets , 17-6 , the last time the two teams played in December .
Meanwhile , the Atlanta Falcons host a Saint Louis Rams team that is coming off a 27-20 win over the Seattle Seahawks .
The Falcons had a first-round bye and beat the Rams in their only meeting this year , 34-17 , at the Georgia Dome .
The playoffs continue Sunday when the reigning Super Bowl champion New England Patriots host the Indianapolis Colts , and the Philadelphia Eagles take on Minnesota .
Madagascar 's Andry Rajoelina , who took power in a coup that toppled president Marc Ravalomanana in March , now says he is the only man who can provide leadership to the Indian Ocean island nation .
Rajoelina , along with the ousted president Ravalomanana and two other former presidents last week negotiated an agreement to share power in a new consensus government to stay in place until next year 's elections .
In an interview on state-run radio and television stations , Rajoelina said it is unimaginable that anyone else should lead the transition .
The agreement reached on August 9 calls for a 31-member unity transition government led by a prime minister and three deputy prime ministers .
Further negotiations on power sharing issues are set for this week with elections to be held in 15 months .
The top U.S. immigration enforcement official says federal agents expect to deport more than 200,000 immigrants this year who are in prisons across the country .
The head of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency , Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security Julie Myers , made the remark in an interview published Tuesday in The New York Times newspaper .
She says the agency filed formal immigration charges in 2007 against 164,000 immigrants convicted of crimes in the United States , compared to 64,000 cases in 2006 .
Myers says the move to speed the deportation of foreign-born criminals is aimed at helping U.S. prisons reduce the costs of housing immigrants .
She says imprisoned foreigners include immigrants who were legal residents but lost their legal status after their convictions .
Afghan officials say NATO warplanes mistakenly killed 14 Afghan construction workers while hunting for Taliban militants in the rugged mountains of eastern Afghanistan .
The governor of Nuristan province , Tamin Nuristani , says the road workers were sleeping in tents when the aircraft attacked late Monday .
He says NATO was acting on reports that militants were in the area .
NATO Brigadier General Carlos Branco said the alliance fired air strikes against entrenched Taliban positions in the area , adding that an investigation is under way .
NATO and other foreign troops in Afghanistan have come under scathing criticism this year for air strikes targeting militants that have seen hundreds of Afghan civilians killed .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has denounced U.S. and NATO troops for the deaths , urging a change in military operating procedure .
A renewed Taliban insurgency has turned this year into the deadliest yet since the 2001 U.S.-led invasion ousted the Taliban government .
The Islamic militant group Hamas says one of its militants has been killed in an Israeli airstrike in the Gaza Strip .
Israel says it fired early Wednesday on a group of armed men in the border area .
The attack came hours after Israeli troops killed two children in northern Gaza during fighting Tuesday with Palestinian militants .
Israel 's military says troops fired at two Palestinians seen next to a rocket launcher in an area where militants had fired rockets at Israel .
The Israeli military accused the militants of sending children to retrieve rocket launchers after the projectiles are fired .
Earlier Tuesday , Israeli forces killed three Islamic Jihad militants in southern Gaza .
Israeli forces have carried out frequent airstrikes and incursions into Gaza since Hamas seized the territory in June in fighting with the rival Fatah faction .
The U.S. military says four car bombings in the Iraqi capital Wednesday , killed at least 26 people and wounded more than 20 others .
A statement said the bombings occurred within a span of 90 minutes and that security forces prevented the suicide bombers from reaching their intended targets .
Two Iraqis were killed and two Australian solders wounded in the first blast near the Australian embassy .
Shortly afterwards , a car bomb exploded near a central Baghdad hospital , killing at least 18 people , including five Iraqi policemen .
Two other car bombings killed Iraqi soldiers , security guards and civilians .
Iraq said Tuesday it will close its borders and ban non-governmental vehicles from the roads to boost security for the country 's January 30 election .
The foreign minister of the ousted Taleban regime in Afghanistan has decided to run for a seat in September 's parliamentary elections .
The election commission says Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil has nominated himself to run for a seat from the former Taleban stronghold of Kandahar in southern Afghanistan .
Mr. Muttawakil was considered by many as a moderate element in the ousted regime .
He surrendered to U.S. troops after the fall of the Taleban in late 2001 .
After 18 months in custody , he was released by the U.S. military in October , 2003 .
Last year , Afghan President Hamid Karzai offered an olive branch to rank-and-file Taleban fighters , inviting them to join the political process .
But he said his offer is not for those hardcore militants who are wanted for human rights violations .
A maritime official says German forces have rescued an Egyptian ship from a pirate attack in the Gulf of Aden .
Noel Choong of the International Maritime Bureau , IMB , says pirates tried to hijack a bulk carrier with 31 crew off the coast of Somalia Thursday .
He says a passing ship alerted the bureau , which asked a multinational coalition force in the area to help .
Choong says a German warship sent a helicopter that scared off the attackers , but not before the pirates shot and injured a crew member .
He says the injured man was airlifted to the German ship for treatment .
Germany is one of several nations with ships patrolling the pirate-infested waters off Somalia .
The International Maritime Bureau says pirates have attacked 110 ships this year and hijacked 42 , most of which were released after hefty ransom payments .
The pirates are currently holding 14 ships and their crews .
Indonesia 's Health Ministry says a woman from Bali has died of bird flu - the second confirmed death from the virus on the Indonesian resort island .
Authorities say the woman died Tuesday and had been in contact with poultry before becoming ill .
If confirmed by the World Health Organization it would bring to 84 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the disease .
Nearly 200 people worldwide , mostly in Asia , have died from bird flu since 2003 .
The dangerous H5N1 strain of the virus is mainly transmitted by contact with infected animals , but experts fear it could mutate into a form that is easily passed between people .
Pakistan security officials say a U.S. missile strike has killed four suspected militants in the country 's northwestern region , along the Afghan border .
Officials say three missiles hit a vehicle carrying the militants in the Datta Khel village in the North Waziristan tribal district .
The U.S. has launched nearly 20 missile strikes against Taliban and al-Qaida-linked militant strongholds in Pakistan 's northwestern tribal region this month .
Pakistani officials publicly condemn the drone strikes , saying they violate the country 's territorial sovereignty .
U.S. officials do not publicly comment on the strikes , which Pakistan generally says are carried out by drones .
Microsoft says it will sell a stripped-down version of its Windows operating system in Europe after bickering with regulators over the name of the product .
The action is part of the software giant 's lengthy legal battle with European Union regulators who say the company abused its near-monoply in the operating system market to unfairly crush its competitors .
EU regulators last year fined Microsoft $ 650 million and demanded it change some business practices .
The EU ordered Microsoft to offer a version of its operating system that did not contain the Microsoft program that plays films and music on computers in the hope of allowing competitors to enter this growing market .
Microsoft calls its reduced software package Windows XP Home Edition N .
North Korea has called Vice President Dick Cheney a " bloodthirsty beast " and said his comments describing ruler Kim Jong-il as " irresponsible " could keep Pyongyang away from future nuclear negotiations .
North Korea 's official KCNA news agency quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman Thursday as saying the U.S. vice president is a hated , cruel monster who drenched various parts of the world in blood .
White House spokesman Scott McCellan says such provocative statements only further isolate the country from the international community .
In an interview Sunday on the U.S. Cable News Network , Mr. Cheney called President Kim one of the world 's most irresponsible leaders , who runs a police state and has one of the most heavily militarized societies in the world .
The United States has been seeking diplomatic pressure to get the North to return to six party talks .
The former Pakistan prime minister , Benazir Bhutto , has been served with an order placing her under house arrest in Islamabad .
But VOA 's Barry Newhouse spoke to a member of her political party , who said he is in a car with her outside her house , and they are trying to force their way through the hundreds of police surrounding the area .
Here is his report .
" I 'm standing at a police barricade about 200 meters from Benazir Bhutto 's private residence in Islamabad .
We have reports that she 's been served with an arrest warrant .
I just spoke with a senior party official in a car with her .
He says they and about 300 party supporters are trying to force their way through police barricades … but so far have been unsuccessful at doing so . "
African Union officials say the Republic of Congo will be named head of the African Union this year and Sudan will take the A.U. chair in 2007 under a compromise reached early Tuesday .
The officials say the decision resolves an impasse among summit delegates in Khartoum over host-country Sudan 's bid for the chairmanship .
The A.U. summit host country usually chairs the organization .
But human rights groups objected to Sudan 's bid because of violence and abuses in the Darfur region .
Five African leaders made a formal request for President Omar al-Bashir to forgo the post .
Late Monday , officials appointed five African nations to pick a new chair candidate to propose to the 53-nation body on Tuesday .
Tens of thousands of people in Darfur have been killed in fighting between government-backed Arab militias ( known as Janjaweed ) and rebel forces .
The U.S. Embassy in Saudi Arabia is warning that extremists may be planning to attack Westerners in the central province of al-Qassim .
A message posted on the embassy 's website , and dated August 4 , said officials there have received credible information about a possible attack .
It said the timing and method of the potential attacks are unknown and advises U.S. citizens to take necessary precautions .
The embassy says this is the first time this year it has warned of a possible attack by extremists .
Venezuela 's Information Minister Andres Izarra has resigned to run a new satellite television channel backed by President Hugo Chavez .
Mr. Izarra said Wednesday he was stepping down to ensure the " independence " of the Telesur channel , which began limited broadcasts this week .
President Chavez and the governments of Argentina , Cuba and Uruguay have supported the new channel , saying it is needed to focus on news and issues in Latin America .
Critics have expressed concern that Telesur may be a mouthpiece for propaganda by Mr. Chavez and Cuban President Fidel Castro .
Last week , the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure calling for television and radio broadcasts to Venezuela to counter alleged " anti-American " rhetoric on the channel .
The Senate has yet to approve the bill .
The leader of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite Muslim political party has endorsed the country 's draft constitution , urging Shi'ites to approve it in next month 's national referendum .
Abdel Aziz al-Hakim of the Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq ( SCIRI ) told thousands of supporters at a rally in Baghdad Saturday that it is their religious duty to vote " yes . "
His endorsement echoes a similar call Thursday from the top Shi'ite religious authority in Iraq , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
In a separate development , a judge in the southern city of Basra ordered the arrest of two British soldiers who were freed Monday in a controversial British raid on a local prison .
The charges against them include killing an Iraqi policeman .
British officials say their troops are not under Iraqi jurisdiction .
In Baghdad , a suicide car bomb exploded near an Iraqi military checkpoint Saturday , killing two soldiers .
Afghan and foreign troops are getting ready to take back a southern Afghan town that is being controlled by Taliban militants .
Afghan defense ministry spokesman General Mohammad Zahir Azimi says security forces are beginning an operation near Musa Qala , a town in southern Helmand province .
Taliban militants overran Musa Qala in February , after British troops withdrew and handed over security responsibilities to local elders .
British military officials say the goal is to take back the town .
The Taliban says it has more than 2,000 armed fighters ready to defend Musa Qala .
Separately , NATO foreign ministers are discussing appointing an international " super " envoy to Afghanistan .
The envoy would help better coordinate U.N. and NATO civilian and military efforts within the country .
Colombian and Organization of American States officials have supervised the destruction of thousands of weapons surrendered by demobilized right-wing paramilitary fighters .
More than 18,000 weapons were melted down Friday .
They were handed over as part of a 2003 peace pact between the Colombian government and the United Self-Defense Force of Colombia , or AUC .
Former fighters and their victims , as well as foreign dignitaries , attended the event .
The melted weapons will be used to make plagues honoring the 9,000 civilian victims of the AUC fighters .
The 2003 peace accord resulted in the demobilization of over 30,000 men .
However , officials say there is evidence that some fighters are re-arming .
Reports from Georgia say President Mikheil Saakashvili has fired reformist Prime Minister Lado Gurgenidze .
News agency reports quote senior Georgian officials as saying Georgia 's ambassador to Turkey , Grigol Mgalobishvili , will replace the prime minister .
An official statement is expected later Monday .
Mr. Gurgenidze , a 37-year-old technocrat and former banker , became prime minister late last year , with the primary task of attracting foreign investment and maintaining a high rate of economic growth .
A five-day military conflict with Russia in August has since eroded investor confidence and slowed what otherwise was widely seen as a healthy economy .
Mr. Gurgenidze visited Washington earlier this month , holding talks with U.S. National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley .
NATO said two U.S. soldiers have been killed in a bomb blast in southern Afghanistan .
The NATO-led force released no other details of the incident .
The U.S. military confirmed the soldiers were American .
July has been the deadliest month for international forces in Afghanistan since the Taliban-led government was ousted in 2001 .
In recent weeks , 4,000 U.S. Marines , along with British and Afghan troops , have launched a major offensive in southern Afghanistan , targeting Taliban insurgents in their traditional strongholds .
The operation is aimed at ensuring security ahead of Afghanistan 's presidential election next month .
Thousands of opposition supporters marched in the Democratic Republic of Congo Wednesday to demand that voter registration be reopened .
Opposition party leader Etienne Tshisekedi asked supporters to join the rally and press for electoral concessions .
The march to U.N. peacekeeping headquarters in Kinshasa coincided with a visit to the DRC by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
Speaking Tuesday in Kinshasa , Mr. Annan said the June elections must be run by the rules , but also must be inclusive .
The vote in June will be Congo 's first democratic elections in more than 40 years .
Earlier this month , riot police used batons and tear gas to disperse opposition members during a similar political rally .
Palestinian militants have attacked a police station in the West Bank town of Nablus , sparking a gunfight with Palestinian police .
Witnesses say several militants took up positions outside the police station Friday and began shooting , prompting police to return fire .
At least two people were reported wounded .
The gunmen were from a small militant group al-Adwa , affiliated with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas ' Fatah faction .
There are conflicting reports as to what the gunmen were upset about .
One report says a militant was refused permission to visit his jailed brother , while another quotes police as saying the group was upset that one of its members had been beaten while in police custody .
Friday 's incident underscores the challenges facing Mr. Abbas as he tries to rein in militants and restore law and order .
Intelogic Trace Inc. , San Antonio , Texas , said it bought 2.7 million shares , or about 18 % , of its common stock from an unaffiliated shareholder for $ 3.625 a share , or $ 9.9 million .
The move boosts Intelogic Chairman Asher Edelman 's stake to 20 % from 16.2 % and may help prevent Martin Ackerman from making a run at the computer-services concern .
Mr. Ackerman already is seeking to oust Mr. Edelman as chairman of Datapoint Corp. , an Intelogic affiliate .
The action followed by one day an Intelogic announcement that it will retain an investment banker to explore alternatives " to maximize shareholder value , " including the possible sale of the company .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Intelogic shares rose 37.5 cents to close at $ 2.75 .
Mr. Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves , saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when " the company is on a roll . "
He added , " This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman and it is not designed , particularly , to take the company private . "
But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back , and the above-market price paid , prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared .
Human rights group Amnesty International says Mexican authorities have failed to prosecute police accused of sexually abusing women from the town of San Salvador Atenco .
Amnesty says more than 20 women have complained of being abused or raped by police who were sent to the town in May to stop a protest by local residents .
The women were among more 200 people arrested and beaten by police during the riots .
Amnesty says Mexico 's federal government should investigate accusations of police brutality against women during the riots .
The group says local authorities are ignoring or covering up the alleged abuses , which it says amount to acts of torture .
The unrest in San Salvador Atenco began when Mexican police tried to stop protests by a small farmers ' organization .
Hundreds of protesters fought with police , and several officers were kidnapped .
China 's government says passengers at Shanghai 's Pudong International Airport will be screened for bird flu .
Starting Monday passengers entering or leaving China will be asked to fill out a health declaration form and have their temperature checked .
Any passenger whose body temperature is greater than 38 degrees ( Celsius ) will be further examined , and if the person has been in an area affected by bird flu , he or she will be required to undergo treatment at a hospital .
Meanwhile , China 's official Xinhua news agency quotes a health ministry official as saying the bird flu virus isolated from human patients in China is slightly different from that found in humans in Vietnam .
However , the ministry says the changes do not make the virus any easier to spread .
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has wrapped up a visit to Venezuela by signing a series of defense and energy deals with the Andean nation .
Prime Minister Zapatero and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Wednesday signed the agreements , which include sales of Spanish military transport planes and coastal patrol vessels to Venezuela .
Both President Chavez and Prime Minister Zapatero said the defense equipment will be used for peaceful purposes .
Mr. Chavez said Venezuela would use the aircraft and vessels to patrol land and sea borders to prevent drug trafficking .
The two leaders also signed an accord that calls for Spain 's Repsol oil company to invest in Venezuela .
Another deal calls for Spain to build three ships , including an oil tanker , for Venezuela .
The Israeli defense minister has approved a proposal to delay a withdrawal from the Gaza Strip by three weeks , clearing the way for top officials to make a final decision on the plan .
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz previously had sent mixed signals about delaying the pullout from July 20 until after August 14 , when an annual Jewish mourning period ends .
But he accepted the delay at a meeting with top officials Thursday .
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon told reporters the Gaza pullout will go forward , but he also vowed to build more housing in the West Bank .
The United States has repeatedly said that such construction violates the internationally-backed peace plan known as the " road map " .
Meanwhile , the Israeli army said Palestinian militants detonated a roadside bomb in Gaza Thursday , wounding one soldier .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has dissolved the government .
Russian officials and news reports say Mr. Putin dismissed the government Wednesday after Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov offered his resignation .
The reports say Mr. Fradkov decided to urge Mr. Putin to dissolve the government because of upcoming major political events , and a desire to give the president the full freedom to make decisions about staff .
Russia is set to hold parliamentary elections in December .
Presidential elections are to be held three months after that .
Olympic officials in China have announced that more than half the available domestic tickets for the 2008 Beijing Games have been sold in the month since they went on sale in April .
China made 2.2 million tickets available a month ago and 230,000 fans have bought almost 1.1 million of them .
Olympic Ticketing Center head Rong Jun said Tuesday that tickets to the opening ceremony , basketball and diving competitions have been the best sellers .
Fans can purchase tickets to the opening and closing ceremonies as well as all 28 sports during the first phase , which ends June 30 .
Tickets will be assigned between July and August , with a random selection process utilized for oversold events .
The second leg of domestic sales will run from October through December .
Olympic committees of individual countries and territories are conducting overseas sales .
Palestinian radio says Israeli artillery fire killed an eight-year-old girl when the shell hit her home in the northern Gaza Strip .
Thirteen other children in the house were reported to be wounded .
Witnesses said an artillery round set the house in Beit Lahiya on fire .
A relative said all the casualties were members of the same family .
The Israeli military has not commented on the death , but confirmed that Israel has been shelling sites that it suspects Palestinian militants are using to fire rockets into southern Israel .
At least 16 Palestinians have been killed since last Friday , when Israel began stepping up air and artillery strikes in Gaza , in a push to curb the rocket fire .
Ukrainian opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko has warned foreign nations against taking sides in the country 's new presidential runoff election .
Mr. Yushchenko said outsiders should only work to ensure the vote is fair .
His comments followed pledges from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to support Ukraine 's new court-ordered presidential run-off election .
Thousands of Mr. Yushchenko 's supporters have continued their vigil in the capital Kiev , where Ukraine 's parliament remained deadlocked on proposals to amend the country 's election laws .
Opposition lawmakers support legal changes aimed at preventing voter fraud .
Pro-government politicians are pushing for constitutional changes that would reduce the powers of the president .
On Saturday , Ukraine 's Supreme Court threw out results from the last presidential election and scheduled a new run-off for December 26 .
The movie The Da Vinci Code will be released in Indian theaters on Friday after its distributors agreed to attach a disclaimer saying the film is a work of fiction .
The film is opening in India a week later than originally planned because the distributors and India 's censorship board could not agree on the wording and placement of the disclaimer .
Indian Christians had protested the film .
The film board ruled that only adults could watch the film and that it must have a 15-second disclaimer at both the beginning and end of the movie .
Both the book and the movie version of The Da Vinci Code have been controversial because of their assertion that Jesus married and had children and the Vatican tried to suppress that information .
Christians view that as blasphemous .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has banned smoking in a wide range of public places .
Mr. Assad announced the ban Sunday , forbidding smoking in restaurants , cafes , movie theaters , educational institutions and hospitals .
Smoking will also be banned on public transportation .
The measure includes the use of water pipes favored by locals and tourists alike .
Violators of the ban face a fine of about $ 45 .
Earlier this year , Syria issued a law forbidding the sale of tobacco to those under 18 years of age .
Mexico 's state-run Pemex oil monopoly says six explosions believed to be sabotage have damaged oil and natural gas pipelines in Veracruz state .
Officials say at least 21,000 people living near the explosions were evacuated , but there have been no confirmed casualties from the incident .
The Associated Press reports that a secretive leftist rebel group named the People 's Revolutionary Army has claimed responsibility for the blasts .
The group took credit for similar Pemex pipeline attacks a few months ago .
Also Monday , a truck loaded with chemical fertilizer exploded following a vehicle accident , creating a massive fireball that killed at least 29 people and wounded 150 others .
News reports say the truck collided with another vehicle in the mining state of Coahuila .
As onlookers gathered around the crash , the vehicle exploded , killing rescue workers and bystanders .
The House Highways and Transit Subcommittee is examining the impact of rising diesel prices on the trucking industry .
The Triple A automotive association says the price of diesel fuel , which is used by most transport trucks , has risen much faster than regular gasoline .
The trucking industry says record high fuel prices are cutting into profits and in some cases , destroying livelihoods .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Pope Benedict XVI has expressed understanding for a former Warsaw archbishop who resigned last month after admitting that he agreed to cooperate with Poland 's communist-era security police .
In a letter to Stanislaw Wielgus published Tuesday , the pontiff said he is fully conscious of the exceptional circumstances under which Polish priests performed their duties while under Soviet domination .
The letter contained what Benedict called a " special apostolic blessing " to the cleric .
It also encouraged him to resume his religious duties .
Wielgus resigned his post on January 7 , after a church commission said it found numerous documents confirming the cleric had collaborated with communist security organizations for years .
Last week , lawyers for the former archbishop said they were moving to clear their client 's name of spy charges , claiming that he never actually collaborated .
Vatican authorities said in January there is no clear proof that Wielgus ' actions harmed anyone .
Iraqi police say insurgents have shot dead the governor of Baghdad province .
Police say Ali al-Haidari and his bodyguard were killed Tuesday while driving through the Baghdad city neighborhood of Hurriyah .
In an separate attack , a suicide bomber rammed his explosives laden truck into a police post in central Baghdad , killing at least 10 people and wounding more than 50 others .
Insurgents have been increasingly targeting senior Iraqi government officials , police and other security personnel as they press on with a violent campaign to disrupt elections set for January 30 .
Monday , at least 18 people - mostly Iraqi police and guardsmen - were killed in a series of ambushes , car bombings , and suicide attacks in Baghdad and several cities and towns to the north .
America and Israel struck a deal to bolster each others Armies .
The Israelis said they would like to exchange three generals for three generals .
The Americans agreed , stating they wanted an IDF General to teach tactics , an armor General to teach desert warfare , and a Mossad General to teach espionage .
The Israelis replied and said they wanted General Electric , General Motors , and General Dynamics .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has assured the United States that he will not push for independence from mainland China during the rest of his term .
Mr. Chen met with the new U.S. envoy to Taiwan , Stephen Young , Tuesday .
He said there will be " no more surprises . "
Mr. Chen was referring to his decision last month to scrap a government body dedicated to unification with mainland China .
The U.S. requested clarification on the issue .
China , meanwhile , reacted angrily to Taiwan , warning that the decision could bring disaster to the island .
Mr. Chen says he will maintain the status quo with China , and that Taiwan 's government will continue to serve as a responsible contributor to maintaining peace across the Taiwan Strait .
China and Taiwan split in 1949 after a civil war , but Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province .
Namibian authorities have ordered two Americans deported for recruiting Namibians for security jobs in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The Namibian Security Council ordered the immediate closure of their company , called Special Operations Consulting-Security Management Group .
Namibian officials declared the company 's representatives , Paul Grimes and Frederic Piry , as " prohibited immigrants . "
Grimes told local media earlier this week that the U.S.-based company had Namibian government approval to recruit within the country .
He said they were trying to recruit at least three thousand Namibians for security jobs abroad .
Namibian law prohibits its citizens from taking part in military or security operations in other countries , without written approval from the Namibian government .
Pakistan 's military says one soldier and seven militants were killed during a gun battle in the northwestern Swat Valley .
An army statement Wednesday said forces were conducting a search operation in Charai when the clash broke out .
Two soldiers also were wounded .
The army says it has captured at least 23 suspected militants in the area .
Pakistan 's government launched an offensive in late April aimed at clearing militants from the greater Swat valley region .
The military says it has driven most of the Taliban from the valley , but sporadic fighting persists .
U.S. officials are about to announce indictments against three men charged with plotting to attack major U.S. financial buildings .
Media reports identify the suspects as Dhiren Barot , Qaisar Shaffi , and Nadeem Tarmohammed .
U.S. officials say Mr. Barot is a high-level al-Qaida figure also known as Esa al-Hindi .
The men are being held in Britain , where they were arrested along with five other terrorist suspects last year .
The suspects allegedly conducted surveillance of the financial buildings in 2000 and 2001 .
The buildings included the New York Stock Exchange , New York 's Citicorp Building , the Prudential Building in Newark , New Jersey , and the International Monetary Fund in Washington .
Discovery of the surveillance led U.S. officials to raise the terrorism alert level around the buildings last August .
China has reacted angrily to the United States ' decision to place sanctions on six Chinese companies accused of supplying Iran with sensitive military equipment .
China 's Foreign Ministry Wednesday demanded that the U.S. lift the sanctions immediately .
The ministry said the U.S. actions will not benefit the two countries ' cooperation in anti-proliferation efforts .
The year-long sanctions announced Tuesday block the firms from doing business with the U.S. government or obtaining American high-tech products .
The State Department says the restrictions are an effective tool in blocking Iran from developing missiles and weapons of mass destruction .
The six Chinese companies are a missile exporter known as Norinco , the chemical equipment group Zibo Chemet Co. , China Aero-Technology Import-Export Corp. , Hongdu Aviation Industry Group , Ounion International Economic and Technical Cooperative Ltd. , and Limmt Metallurgy and Minerals Co.
Sanctions were also imposed on two Indian companies and an Austrian firm .
Afghan authorities say a suicide bomber has killed eight people at a governor 's residence in southern Afghanistan .
They say the attack in Helmand province killed guards , but did not harm the governor , Mohammed Daud .
In the same province , a British Marine was killed while on patrol .
And in Khost , U.S.-led forces killed four people , including a teenage girl , during a raid .
Meanwhile , Afghan President Hamid Karzai says resolving difficulties with neighboring Pakistan will put an end to the Taleban .
He says Pakistan is responsible for violence in Afghanistan .
In other developments , Human Rights Watch is calling on Mr. Karzai to quickly establish a truth and reconciliation court to deal with war crimes and human rights abuses committed in the country over the past 30 years .
It happened that a Dog had got a piece of meat and was carrying it home in his mouth to eat it in peace .
Now on his way home he had to cross a plank lying across a running brook .
As he crossed , he looked down and saw his own shadow reflected in the water beneath .
Thinking it was another dog with another piece of meat , he made up his mind to have that also .
So he made a snap at the shadow in the water , but as he opened his mouth the piece of meat fell out , dropped into the water and was never seen more .
Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow .
The head of the United Nations children 's agency , or UNICEF , says at least 17,000 children died in schools destroyed by the October 8 earthquake in Pakistan .
Ann Veneman said those children who survived have been traumatized by injuries and loss of friends and teachers who died in the quake .
She repeated warnings about a " second wave " of deaths if tens of thousands of people who are still homeless are not provided with shelter , food , drinking water and proper health care .
With a bitter Himalayan winter approaching , aid workers fear hunger , disease and untreated injuries could kill thousands more .
Meanwhile , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan is expected to attend a donors meeting in Islamabad on November 19 to raise funds for rebuilding earthquake-hit areas .
The October 8 quake killed about 55,000 people , most of them in Pakistani Kashmir .
The Walt Disney Company has agreed to sell Miramax Films to an investor group for more than $ 660 million .
Disney agreed to the deal late Thursday after Filmyard Holdings paid a nonrefundable $ 40-million deposit .
Filmyard is an investment group headed by Los Angeles construction magnate Ron Tutor .
The financing for the transaction is expected to be finalized by the end of the year .
The Miramax library of 700 movies includes Pulp Fiction , Shakespeare in Love , Chicago and No Country for Old Men .
Disney Chief Executive Robert Iger said in a statement , Disney 's current focus is on the development of - in his words - " great motion pictures " under the Disney , Pixar and Marvel brands .
The Filmyard deal marks the culmination of a drawn-out sale that had attracted various Los Angeles-based rival bidders , including Bob and Harvey Weinstein , the brothers who founded the studio .
Authorities in Afghanistan say up to 22 insurgents were killed Thursday night during an operation led by coalition troops .
The U.S. military says coalition and Afghan forces raided a compound in central Ghazni province , and that a number of militants were killed .
Afghan police put that number at 22 .
Officials also say troops found a cache of weapons , including grenades and ammunition .
In other clashes , two Afghan policemen and two British soldiers have died in separate incidents .
Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says a roadside bomb killed the two police officers near the southern border with Pakistan on Thursday .
The latest British deaths were in southern Helmand province .
British and U.S. forces are conducting an offensive in southern Afghanistan to try to clear out Taliban militants .
Nine British troops have been killed in as many days .
Mexican police have reopened a central square in the city of Oaxaca after clearing out protesters demanding that the state governor resign .
Witnesses said federal police cleaned up trash and painted over graffiti left by activists who launched the protests five months ago .
Some foreign tourists also returned to the popular vacation spot on Tuesday .
Protesters , however , remain in control of many other parts of the city .
And organizers say they will not quit the protests until Governor Ulises Ruiz resigns over corruption allegations .
At least nine people , including a U.S. journalist , have been killed in the crisis in recent weeks .
A United Nations human rights expert says he has received reports of abuse by paramilitary groups in the crackdown .
He urged Mexico 's government to investigate the claims of murder and arbitrary detention .
A report out of Kenya says Somali pirates have hijacked a German ship with 24 crew members on board .
Andrew Mwangura , of the Mombasa-based East African Seafarers ' Assistance Program , says pirates seized the 20,000 ton container vessel Saturday in the Indian Ocean .
He says the hijacking occurred about 740 kilometers off the coast of Kismayo , between Kenya and the Seychelles .
Somali pirates have seized dozens of ships over the past 18 months , receving millions of dollars in ransom payments .
The number of successful hijackings dropped off during January and February after the United States , China and other world powers deployed warships to the area .
But the pirates have seized at least six ships since mid-March , including four European commercial vessels and two yachts from Seychelles .
At least two cars driven by suicide bombers exploded Monday at the entrance to a U.S. military camp in western Iraq .
Early reports from the camp near Qaim say at least two U.S. personnel were wounded in the attack .
A military spokesman in Baghdad said officials were still gathering details early this afternoon .
Meanwhile , Iraqi security forces backed by U.S. troops rounded up dozens of suspected insurgents during raids today in central Baghdad .
A U.S. military statement says more than 500 Iraqi soldiers and police took part in the operation .
In other developments , Pakistan says kidnappers are seeking ransom for the release of an embassy employee abducted Saturday in Baghdad .
A Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman declined to disclose details , but he said the victim , Malik Mohammed Javed , is unharmed and in contact with embassy officials .
Tropical Storm Katrina has strengthened over the central Bahamas and is moving toward Florida , where it is expected to hit later this week .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center reports a tropical storm warning remains in effect for the central and northern Bahamas .
It says Katrina is expected to bring heavy rains and batter the shore with large and dangerous waves .
The weather service also issued a tropical storm warning and a hurricane watch for the southeast Florida coast from Vero Beach southward to Florida City .
On Tuesday , tropical storm Jose dumped heavy rains on the Gulf of Mexico .
Egyptian officials have announced the site for the country 's first nuclear power plant , settling the controversy over its location .
A presidential spokesman said Wednesday the new plant will be located in el-Dabaa , an area northwest of Cairo on the Mediterranean coast .
Local business officials had criticized the government for considering el-Dabaa , saying a power plant could have a negative impact on the region 's tourism .
However , the presidential spokesman says President Hosni Mubarak reached a decision on the site during a meeting with the country 's nuclear energy council .
Egyptian officials say the plant should be in operation by 2019 .
The government also plans to have three other nuclear facilities up and running by 2025 .
Power outages across the country in addition to depleting oil and gas resources have forced officials to consider alternative energy solutions .
The government has also begun using solar and wind energy .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has signed an agreement allowing visa-free travel between Argentina and his country .
Argentine ambassador to Russia Leopoldo Bravo attended the signing ceremony Wednesday in Moscow .
Argentine Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana signed the document last week in Buenos Aires .
The agreement will take effect after ratification by parliaments of both countries .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says under the agreement , citizens of Russia and Argentina will be able to enter and leave the territories of each others ' countries without visas .
They will also be able to travel through or stay there for 90 to 180 days .
Travelers seeking longer visits or those who wish to engage in business will still need visas .
Palestinian sources say an Israeli helicopter gunship fired a missile at militants during a clash in northern Gaza , killing three of them .
The Israeli army confirmed the air attack .
It said soldiers spotted militants trying to launch rockets at Israel and that a gunbattle followed involving Israeli aircraft .
At least five people were wounded in the clash .
The militants involved were members of Islamic Jihad .
In other news , Israel 's interior minister says four Hamas lawmakers must quit the organization if they want to continue living in east Jerusalem .
Ronnie Bar-On issued the ultimatum while speaking Monday on an Israeli TV station .
He said letters were sent to the Hamas lawmakers giving them 30 days to resign or risk being expelled .
Hamas ' charter calls for the destruction of Israel .
The Vatican says Pope Benedict XVI is deeply saddened about the situation in the U.S. Gulf Coast and is praying for the victims of Hurricane Katrina .
In a telegram , Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Angelo Sodano said the pontiff is praying for all those affected by the tragedy .
The telegram says Pope Benedict is also praying for the rescue workers and those helping the victims , and encouraging them to continue their efforts to bring relief and support .
The United Nations mission in Rwanda says government troops are gearing up to attack Rwandan Hutu rebels based in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
A spokeswoman , Patricia Tome , says the head of the mission , William Swing , received a telephone call from a Rwandan official , advising him of the action .
She declined to identify the official .
Reuters news agency quotes an adviser to Rwanda 's President Paul Kagame , Richard Sezibera , who confirmed the possibility of clashes .
He said Hutu rebels in Congo are massing near the border with Rwanda , adding that the government will take any means necessary to defend Rwandan territory .
In recent years , Rwandan troops have entered Congo on two occasions to attack Hutu extremists who fled across the border after participating in the massacre of hundreds of thousands of minority ethnic Tutsis during Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
China and Russia will hold their first joint military exercises later this month .
The Chinese Defense Ministry says the exercises , which have been dubbed " Peace Mission 2005 , " will take place August 18 through the August 25 in the Russian city of Vladivostok and on China 's coastal province of Shandong .
More than 10,000 troops from both nations armies , navies , marines and air forces will be involved .
The ministry says the goal of the exercises is to " deepen Sino-Russian trust " and improve their capability to fight international terrorism .
The exercises are a symbol of the improving ties between the once-bitter Cold War rivals , who are dealing with Muslim separatists in their respective countries .
In Africa , elephant conservation has always been threatened by the illegal ivory trade .
This spring there was another new threat to the elephants when South Africa lifted its 13-year ban against culling .
Officials announced plans to thin the herds by 5,000 .
Yet , animal advocates argue that elephants are an endangered species .
VOA 's Carolyn Turner reports on the background of the ivory politics .
The European Union is proposing to slap sanctions on U.S. exports in a dispute over a controversial U.S. anti-dumping law .
The EU is considering additional duties of up to 15 percent as of May 1 , affecting such products as paper , textiles , machinery and farm produce .
The proposal is aimed at punishing Washington for not repealing an anti-dumping law ruled illegal by the World Trade Organization .
The law is known as the Byrd Amendment .
It allows American companies to collect money from special duties on foreign goods that are found to be either illegally subsidized or dumped on the U.S. market .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says no U.S. aid will go to the Hamas-led Palestinian government , but the United States will still contribute to humanitarian programs like immunizing children in the Palestinian territories .
In testimony to a Senate committee Wednesday , Rice repeated the U.S. position that Hamas must meet international demands to renounce violence and recognize Israel 's right to exist .
Hamas is preparing to take control of the Palestinian parliament when it convenes Saturday .
On Wednesday , the group nominated Abdel Aziz Duaik as parliament speaker and Mahmoud Zahar as faction leader .
In Israel , top policy makers began a three-day review of how to deal with a Hamas-dominated Palestinian government .
Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has said Israel will have no contacts with the Palestinians as long as Hamas is involved in terrorism and refuses to recognize Israel .
Iran says it is ready , under certain circumstances , to help the United States withdraw its troops from Iraq .
Iran Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki made the comment Saturday in Manama , Bahrain at a conference of the International Institute of Strategic Studies .
Mottaki said Tehran would be willing to help with any troop withdrawal if Washington decides on such action , and changes its attitude .
He did not say what help Iran would offer .
Opening a dialog with Iran and its regional ally Syria was one of the key recommendations of a bipartisan panel of former Washington policy makers reviewing U.S. policy in Iraq .
President Bush said Thursday Iran and Syria must stop helping extremists and commit to help Iraq 's fledgling government before any talks .
U.S. military officials say 75 prisoners at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay are on a hunger strike .
A military spokesman for the base Navy Commander Robert Durand says the hunger strike is an attempt to gain media attention .
He said it may be related to May 18 clashes between detainees and military guards .
Some of the detainees have been on the hunger strike since August .
In past months , the military has force-fed hunger strikers by placing a tube through their noses into their stomachs .
Earlier this month , lawyers for a detainee filed a complaint saying the force-feeding method amounts to torture .
More than 400 prisoners are being held at Guantanamo on suspicion of links to al-Qaida or the Taleban .
The Los Angeles Police Department earlier this year investigated possible threats against Britney Spears ' ex-husband Kevin Federline .
On Monday , LAPD spokeswoman Norma Eisenman said the department probed allegations in June , but later determined there was not enough information to keep the investigation active .
The FBI 's Los Angeles field office received " nonspecific , uncorroborated allegations regarding a threat against Mr. Federline , " according to FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller .
She said the bureau passed the information to the LAPD because it was not a federal matter .
Eimiller declined to say whether the FBI received the information and would not describe the threat .
Kevin Federline was married to Britney Spears from 2004 to 2006 .
He is currently seeking primary custody of their sons , two-year-old Sean Preston and one-year-old Jayden James .
Police were also among the more than 11 people wounded in Wednesday 's blast , which happened in Quetta , the provincial capital .
Baluchistan has long been the site of a low-level insurgency seeking more autonomy for the province and a greater share of money from its natural resources .
In recent weeks , the region has also seen several attacks on trucks carrying supplies to NATO troops in Afghanistan .
Security sources say Palestinian forces loyal to President Mahmoud Abbas have shut down four charities and two printing shops in the West Bank for their alleged ties to rival political faction Hamas .
The stores and charities , located in an around the southern town of Hebron , were closed Friday .
Sources say the printing shops were publishing material that could incite violence against the government .
Mr. Abbas has recently intensified a crackdown on Hamas in the West Bank .
Last year , Hamas seized control of the Gaza Strip after routing Fatah forces loyal to the Palestinian president .
Ecuadoreans protest against Government of President Lucio Gutierrez shouting " Out Lucio " in Quito , Ecuador , Friday Ecuador 's President Lucio Gutierrez has dismissed the Supreme Court and declared a state of emergency in the capital , Quito , in an effort to ease a mounting political crisis .
Mr. Gutierrez made the announcement late Friday in a nationally televised address .
Thousands of pro-opposition activists have been staging mostly peaceful street rallies for the last few days to protest the government 's restructuring of the Supreme Court late last year .
In December , Congress fired 27 of 31 justices and designated new ones after President Gutierrez accused the judges of bias against him .
The move outraged the opposition , which complained the restructuring by the ruling party dominated congress was an attempt by the Gutierrez government to establish control over the high court .
The president fired the new judges Friday .
Israel is continuing its month-long military offensive against Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip in an attempt to stop rocket attacks on Israel and free a captured soldier .
Palestinian medics say Israeli fire killed 3 Palestinian civilians Thursday , including a 75-year-old woman .
A tank shell hit her home near the Jabaliya refugee camp in northern Gaza .
On Wednesday , Israeli forces and Palestinian gunmen fought fierce battles across the Gaza Strip resulting in the deaths of 23 Palestinians , including three children .
Palestinians identified at least 12 of the dead as gunmen .
Militants also kept up attacks with homemade rockets , despite the Israeli offensive .
More than 140 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza since Israeli forces moved into the Palestinian territory after militants captured an Israeli soldier on June 25 .
An Israeli newspaper reports Israel has agreed to pay some $ 2 million to the family of a British journalist killed by Israeli soldiers in 2003 .
The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported the settlement on Sunday , saying it followed lengthy legal discussions .
The attorney for the victim confirmed that a settlement had been reached with the Israeli government , although he would only say the amount was more than $ 1.4 million .
Cameraman James Miller was shooting a documentary on Palestinian children in the Gazan border town of Rafah in 2003 when he was killed by Israeli gunfire despite carrying a white flag .
The soldier who fired the shot was cleared in a court-martial , but a British inquest concluded the event constituted murder .
The Miller family lawyer said Sunday that the family believes the settlement is the closest thing to an admission of guilt that they can get .
The men 's downhill highlights action at the 2006 Olympics Sunday with American Bode Miller hoping to add a gold medal to his trophy case .
Miller will have to beat countryman Daron Rahlves and the strong Austrian Alpine team , including double Olympic champion Hermann Maier , World Cup downhill leader Michael Walchhofer , and reigning gold medalist Fritz Strobl .
Apollo Anton Ohno of the United States makes his first appearance in Turin when he skates in the men 's 1,500-meters short track speed skating race .
Germans Claudia Pechstein and Anni Friesinger go for gold in the women 's 3,000-meters long track speed skating event .
Men 's luge will award a gold medal , with World Cup and Olympic champion Armin Zoeggeler of Italy hoping to take home the prize .
Gold is also up for grabs in men 's half pipe snowboarding and in men 's and women 's cross-country skiing pursuit races .
The U.S. military says a helicopter has crashed in northern Iraq , killing all 12 Americans believed to be on board .
Military officials say they are investigating the crash of the Blackhawk in a sparsely populated area near the border with Syria on Sunday .
They said military personnel discovered the crash site 12 hours after losing communication with the helicopter .
Elsewhere , U.S. officials said gunmen killed three Marines in separate incidents in Fallujah .
Members of the Sunni Association of Muslim Scholars criticized U.S. forces over a raid on a mosque in the Iraqi capital .
U.S. officials said six people were detained in what they called an anti-terrorist operation .
And a French engineer , Bernard Planche , has been freed nearly a month after being seized by insurgents .
On the political front , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says leaders of the country 's political parties have agreed in principle to form a national unity government .
Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II , France suffered extensive losses in its empire , wealth , manpower , and rank as a dominant nation-state .
Nevertheless , France today is one of the most modern countries in the world and is a leader among European nations .
Since 1958 , it has constructed a hybrid presidential-parliamentary governing system resistant to the instabilities experienced in earlier more purely parliamentary administrations .
In recent decades , its reconciliation and cooperation with Germany have proved central to the economic integration of Europe , including the introduction of a common exchange currency , the euro , in January 1999 .
In the early 21st century , five French overseas entities - French Guiana , Guadeloupe , Martinique , Mayotte , and Reunion - became French regions and were made part of France proper .
Authorities in Iraq say a suicide attacker blew himself up among a group Iraqi army recruits in Baghdad Wednesday , killing at least 10 people and wounding several others .
Police say the bomber mingled with a crowd of men standing outside a recruiting center before detonating his explosives belt .
Insurgents have targeted the same recruiting center several times in the past .
In another development , a number of Sunni Muslims on the committee drafting Iraq 's new constitution suspended their membership - a day after two of their colleagues were assassinated in Baghdad .
Hours before Tuesday 's assassinations , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani said he hoped the draft constitution could be ready ahead of the August 15 deadline , if Sunni concerns could be quickly addressed .
A suicide bomber drove a car full of explosives into a police checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan , killing at least 16 people .
Local police officials say Wednesday 's attack in Charsadda , near the city of Peshawar , killed at least nine policemen and several civilians .
Peshawar is the capital of Pakistan 's North West Frontier Province and the gateway to the tribal areas bordering Afghanistan .
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Giliani condemned the attack .
In a statement , President Zardari said the perpetrators of " such a heinous crime " would be brought to justice .
The region has experienced a surge of militant attacks by Pakistani Taliban fighters and other Islamic groups .
Attacks also have been carried out in other parts of Pakistan , including the capital , Islamabad , and the commerical center , Karachi .
Burmese state media reported Wednesday that border police seized a large quantity of heroin and other illegal drugs near the border with Thailand this week .
The reports say an anti-drug squad found more than 700 kilograms of heroin and nearly 3 million methamphetamine pills in the town of Tachilek Monday .
Officers arrested four people and confiscated two guns and ammunition from the raid on two houses .
Last month , Burmese police seized about 760 kilograms of heroin and large quantities of other drugs in the same town .
Burma is one of the world 's largest producers of heroin .
It is also a major source of methamphetamine .
The illegal drugs are often smuggled into Thailand .
Afghan officials say two separate accidental explosions killed four children and three police officers in the capital , Kabul , Monday .
In the first incident , authorities said a group of children was playing with an old artillery shell when it exploded .
The blast killed four of the children .
Afghanistan remains littered with unexploded munitions and landmines after decades of war .
The second blast happened as a group of police officers was preparing for a mission .
A spokesman for the Interior Ministry said one of the officers accidentally dropped a rocket-propelled grenade .
The explosion killed three officers .
The death toll from a bus accident Thursday afternoon in Indian Kashmir has risen to at least 42 , with an equal number of people injured .
Local officials say the bus was carrying pilgrims to a holy site when it skidded off a mountain road some 165 kilometers north of Jammu and plunged into a deep ravine .
Meanwhile , violence in the disputed region continues .
The Indian army says government troops raided a militant hide-out near the Line of Control that divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan , killing four suspected Muslim separatists .
Hours later , suspected rebels lobbed a grenade in Srinagar , wounding at least 15 people including children .
Muslim separatists in Indian Kashmir are fighting for an independent Kashmir or its merger with neighboring Pakistan .
The U.S. Defense Department says it will comply with a federal judge 's order to release the identities of hundreds of terror suspects being held at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
A Pentagon spokesman says the military is working with the U.S. Justice Department to release uncensored transcripts of military tribunal hearings at Guantanamo by a court-ordered deadline of March 3 .
The judge 's order last month was part of a ruling issued in favor of the Associated Press , which filed a lawsuit to obtain the transcripts to determine whether detainees had been properly classified as enemy combatants .
The military released hundreds of transcripts last year , but blacked out the names and nationalities of detainees .
The Pentagon is strongly opposed to releasing the identities , but has ultimately decided not to appeal the order .
Germany 's Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier says there is still time for Iran to agree to talks on its nuclear program and avoid international sanctions .
Steinmeier told a European radio broadcaster ( Inforadio ) that European Union leaders are set to meet Tuesday to discuss backing sanctions by the U.N. Security Council .
He called on Iran to agree to suspend enrichment activities , saying that currently there is no possibility for successful talks with Iran .
Western nations say Iran must suspend enrichment before a new round of negotiations on its nuclear program .
Iran has rejected the suspension as a condition for talks .
U.S. officials say the five permanent members of the Security Council - United States , Britain , Russia , France and China - plus Germany have reached broad agreement on sanctions against Iran .
Western nations accuse Iran of seeking nuclear weapons , which Iran denies .
Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar says he hope to visit Burma soon to see evidence of democratic reform .
The state Bernama news agency quoted Mr. Syed Hamid Saturday as saying discussions are being held with Burma 's Minister of Foreign Affairs to set a date for the trip .
The Malaysian diplomat said he hopes to visit the military-ruled country this month .
At the three-day Association of Southeast Nations ( ASEAN ) summit in Kuala Lumpur in December , Mr. Syed Hamid was chosen to lead an ASEAN delegation to visit Burma to observe democratic reforms .
Burma welcomed the visit , but did not set a specific date .
Mr. Syed Hamid said results from the visit are vital in keeping up the integrity and credibility of ASEAN .
A suicide bomber driving a tractor near Iraq 's Abu Ghraib prison has blown himself up in the second attack on the facility in the past two days .
Police say at least four civilians were hurt in Monday 's blast .
The U.S. military says Saturday 's assault on the prison involved multiple , simultaneous attacks .
It estimates the assailants suffered 50 casualties , and says 23 U.S. troops and 13 detainees were wounded .
Meanwhile , Iraqi Shi'ite and Kurdish negotiators seeking agreement on the makeup of a new government are meeting today , before parliament 's next session Wednesday .
Lawmakers say they hope to select a new president , two vice presidents and a prime minister when the session convenes .
Sunday , lawmakers elected a Sunni Arab cabinet minister , Hajim al-Hassani , to head the new assembly .
Prince William County , in the Virginia suburbs outside of Washington , is drawing attention across the United States by enforcing local laws that lead to the deportation of hundreds of illegal immigrants .
Community activists say it has created a hostile environment toward all immigrants .
Producer Zulima Palacio prepared the story .
The United States has warned of possible terrorist attacks against its interests in the Middle East and North Africa , and has cautioned American citizens to be vigilant about their security in those areas .
In a statement posted Saturday on the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait 's website , the State Department says potential attacks could include bombings , hijackings , hostage taking , kidnappings and assassinations .
It also warned that chemical and biological agents must be considered a possible threat .
The State Department singled out Westerners , oil workers and U.S. contractors working with the military as potential targets .
The statement pointed to last month 's bombings of three Jordanian hotels as underscoring the desire of terrorists to target places perceived to cater to Westerners .
Egypt says 12 small Palestinian factions have agreed to Egyptian proposals for a truce with Israel in the Gaza Strip .
Egypt 's state news agency ( MENA ) quotes officials as saying the Palestinian groups approved the cease-fire offer at a meeting Wednesday in Cairo .
It says the truce would begin in Gaza and be extended later to the West Bank .
No timeframe was given .
The larger Hamas militant group that controls Gaza told Egypt last week it would support a six-month cease-fire with Israel in Gaza , to be followed by a similar truce in the West Bank .
Egypt has been trying for months to mediate an Israeli-Palestinian deal that would include a truce , an exchange of prisoners and an opening of Gaza 's border crossings .
Israel has expressed doubts about the latest Palestinian truce offers , arguing they would give militants time to re-arm .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and two of his South American counterparts have opened a gas pipeline between Colombia and Venezuela .
Venezuela 's Hugo Chavez and Rafael Correa of Ecuador participated in a ceremony Friday by turning on the pipeline valves in Colombia 's Guajira region .
It connects Guajira with Venezuela 's Lake Maracaibo area .
Venezuela 's state-owned oil company , PDVSA , invested millions of dollars in the 225-kilometer-long pipeline .
All but 89 kilometers of the line are in Venezuelan territory .
Officials say the pipeline will have the capacity to pump 14 million cubic meters of natural gas daily from Colombia to Venezuela .
They also say that the pipeline is to carry gas to Venezuela until 2011 , then reverse course to take the gas in the other direction .
Venezuela 's president has been promoting Latin American energy integration .
He also wants to extend a vast gas pipeline across South America .
Iranian officials say an explosion Wednesday near the southwestern port city of Daylam was caused by construction work , and was not a hostile attack .
News of the blast raised concerns , because it was in the same province where Iran and Russia are building a nuclear reactor .
However , the blasting site was about 150 kilometers north of the Bushehr nuclear facility .
Earlier state television reported that residents had seen an aircraft overhead at the time of the blast .
The television channel reported that the explosion may have been caused by a fuel tank dropping from an Iranian airplane .
The United Nations special envoy to Burma says that country 's foreign minister has refused to meet with him on the sidelines of this week 's Association of Southeast Asian Nations ministerial meeting in Laos .
Razali Ismail says Foreign Minister Nyan Win told him in a message that he would be " too busy " during this week 's conference .
Mr. Razali met separately Monday with the foreign ministers of Thailand and the Philippines .
He is hoping the ASEAN nations can convince Rangoon to let him return to Burma , which he last visited in 2004 .
The UN envoy is pushing for reconciliation between Burma 's military rulers and pro-democracy forces let by Aung San Suu Kyi .
The economy has grown 5-6 % per year since 1996 despite political instability , poor infrastructure , corruption , insufficient power supplies , and slow implementation of economic reforms .
Bangladesh remains a poor , overpopulated , and inefficiently-governed nation .
Although more than half of GDP is generated through the service sector , 45 % of Bangladeshis are employed in the agriculture sector , with rice as the single-most-important product .
Bangladesh 's growth was resilient during the 2008 - 09 global financial crisis and recession .
Garment exports , totaling $ 12.3 billion in FY09 and remittances from overseas Bangladeshis , totaling $ 11 billion in FY10 , accounted for almost 25 % of GDP .
Some fishing takes place in adjacent waters .
There is a potential source of income from harvesting finfish and krill .
The islands receive income from postage stamps produced in the UK , sale of fishing licenses , and harbor and landing fees from tourist vessels .
Tourism from specialized cruise ships is increasing rapidly .
Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz Poland 's parliamentary speaker Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz says he will run for president in October 's election , with recent opinion polls suggesting he could win .
Mr. Cimoszewicz , of the ruling Democratic Left Alliance , has remained untouched by a string of scandals that have tarnished his party .
Polls have put him ahead of other hopefuls , including leading conservative Lech Kaczynski .
Poland 's President Alexander Kwasniewski can not run for re-election because he has already served two terms .
Opinion polls indicate Polish leftists will be defeated in parliamentary elections , scheduled for September 25 .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says it is " inconceivable " that any military action will be taken against Iran over its nuclear program .
The United States has accused Tehran of using its nuclear program to develop atomic weapons , and President Bush has previously said all options are on the table to resolve the issue .
But Mr. Straw told British radio Wednesday , that the use of military force is " not on the agenda . "
He also says Mr. Bush is taking a position advocated by " all United States presidents . "
The International Atomic Energy Agency passed a resolution last Saturday accusing Iran of failing to comply with international nuclear safeguard agreements .
The resolution puts Iran on notice that it could be referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
A top Colombian official says his government will investigate Ecuador 's claim that Colombian military aircraft violated Ecuadorean territory .
Deputy Foreign Minister Camilo Reyes said Tuesday his government has received a protest note from Ecuador .
But he told reporters that the incursion , if it happened , was not premeditated .
Reyes noted Colombian military forces have been pursuing leftist rebels in southern Colombia , near the border with Ecuador .
Ecuador says Colombian military aircraft and helicopters strayed into Ecuadorean air space Saturday and fired machine guns at targets in Ecuadorean territory .
The Associated Press quotes Ecuador 's Defense Minister , Oswaldo Jarrin as demanding an apology from Colombia .
Ecuador has long expressed concern that violence from Colombia 's four-decade war against leftist rebels could spill across the lengthy border separating the two nations .
President Bush is again calling on the U.S. Senate to give him authority to remove certain items from bills before signing them into law .
Mr. Bush raised the issue Tuesday in a speech in Washington .
It is called the line-item veto .
He also talked about it Saturday in his weekly radio address .
The President said the move would help him get rid of wasteful spending measures tacked onto important legislation .
He said those last-minute additions , known as earmarks , have grown more common in recent years .
President Clinton briefly had line-item veto authority before the Supreme Court struck it down as unconstitutional in 1998 .
The Court said it gave the president too much power .
House lawmakers on Thursday voted to grant President Bush a modified line-item veto that would allow Congress to approve or reject his changes before they become law .
A Palestinian official says Israeli settlers stoned cars and set fire to Palestinian-owned olive trees in the West Bank Monday .
Official Ghassan Daglas said two Palestinians were lightly injured as the rampaging settlers torched fields and hurled rocks in the northern city of Nablus .
He said some of the settlers were on horseback , leaving fires blazing in their wake .
Reports of the crowd size vary , with between 10 and 30 settlers taking part in the unrest .
An Israeli border guard spokesman said one settler was arrested .
The settlers were apparently retaliating because the army removed a settler 's caravan from an unauthorized settlement outpost in the area earlier in the day .
There has been some positive news coming out of the International Conference on Alzheimer 's , held July 26-31 in Chicago , Illinois .
Two preliminary studies show progress with use of an antihistamine and a nasal spray .
But researchers say lifestyle factors and heredity also play a crucial role in determining whether you develop Alzheimer 's .
VOA 's Melinda Smith has more .
Al-Qaida loyalists in Iraq say they kidnapped Algeria 's top diplomat in Baghdad .
In a statement posted Saturday on an Islamist Internet site , the group al-Qaida in Iraq said it targeted the chief of the Algerian mission in Baghdad as part of a campaign to drive out diplomats from other Muslim nations .
Al-Qaida in Iraq , which is headed by the country 's notorious fugitive Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , compared the Algerian envoy 's abduction this week to the kidnapping and murder earlier this month of Egypt 's ambassador to Iraq .
The Algerian mission chief , Ali Belaroussi , and another member of Algeria 's diplomatic staff in Iraq were snatched by gunmen on Thursday .
Saturday 's statement did not mention the second man .
Attacks by insurgents in Iraq have driven many diplomats from Baghdad , undermining the U.S.-backed government 's efforts to gain support among Arab countries .
Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in the world , with almost one-quarter of its population living below the poverty line .
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy , providing a livelihood for three-fourths of the population and accounting for about one-third of GDP .
Industrial activity mainly involves the processing of agricultural products , including pulses , jute , sugarcane , tobacco , and grain .
Nepal has considerable scope for exploiting its potential in hydropower , with an estimated 42,000 MW of feasible capacity , but political instability hampers foreign investment .
Additional challenges to Nepal 's growth include its landlocked geographic location , civil strife and labor unrest , and its susceptibility to natural disaster .
British officials say they have reached preliminary agreement with Jordan , allowing Britain to deport Jordanian nationals with guarantees they will not be mistreated .
A spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair Wednesday said the move could lead to similar agreements with several North African nations .
Under international law , Britain must seek guarantees that deportees will not face torture or the death penalty before expelling them .
The spokesman said once the formal agreement is signed several Jordanian nationals may face deportation proceedings .
One cleric who could face deportation is Abu Qatada , who fled to Britain claiming persecution in Jordan .
He has been convicted in absentia of terrorism in Jordan .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb exploded outside a police crime lab in the northern city of Mosul Tuesday , killing two officers .
At least seven other people were wounded in the morning attack .
In a similar incident last month , a suicide bomber struck a police forensics lab in Baghdad , killing 22 people .
A group affiliated with al-Qaida , the Islamic State of Iraq , claimed responsibility for that attack .
Also in Mosul Tuesday , a police official says gunmen opened fire on two Christian university students , killing one and wounding another .
On Monday , three bombings in western Iraq left one person dead , and wounded at least four others .
Japan has called for the United States to fully investigate why a recent shipment of American beef contained prohibited spinal material that could cause " mad-cow " disease .
Japanese Cabinet Secretary Shinzo Abe says no American beef will be allowed into Japan until the U.S. takes action to prevent a repeat of the incident .
Abe says Tokyo will ask meat sellers to inspect all U.S. beef shipments already in Japan to see if they contain potentially dangerous cattle parts .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick apologized for the incident in talks with Japanese officials in Tokyo Monday .
He said the company that shipped the suspicious meat will be barred from further exports .
Japan resumed U.S. beef imports last month following a two-year halt , but reimposed the ban Friday after inspectors found spinal material in a shipment of veal .
Pope Benedict XVI has received top officials of the World Jewish Congress , who pressed concern about threats from Iran and urged the pontiff to pursue dialogue with moderate Muslims .
The Jewish organization 's President Ronald Lauder and its Secretary General Michael Schneider presented their concerns to the pope at a private audience at the Vatican .
The Jewish leaders noted anxiety over what they said is the continued appearance of instances of anti-Semitism in Europe and Iran .
They specifically raised the issue of a Polish priest , accused of broadcasting anti-Semitic views on his influential radio station .
The delegation thanked the pontiff for his efforts in building interfaith relations and called building dialogue with moderate Muslim countries important in efforts to secure a peaceful future .
Delegation members also invited the pontiff to meet with senior Jewish leaders during his trip to New York next year .
Top aides of the Bush administration have met with African American leaders amid criticism of the federal government 's response to Hurricane Katrina .
The meeting , held at the White House , came a day after U.S. congressman Elijah Cummings , a Democrat from Maryland , complained about a slow response in helping residents of stricken areas , a majority of whom are black .
Mr. Cummings says he believes the meeting was to assure black leaders that any missteps in getting relief to hurricane victims would be corrected .
Among those represented at the meeting were the Congressional Black Caucus , the Urban League and the NAACP ( National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ) .
Sharon Osbourne is replacing Brandy as a judge on the U.S. reality TV series America 's Got Talent .
The 54-year-old wife / manager of rock singer Ozzy Osbourne will debut May 29 , when the televised talent contest commences its second season .
She will join returning judges David Hasselhoff and British media figure Piers Morgan .
Talk show host Jerry Springer will host the contest , which carries a $ 1 million prize .
Twenty-eight-year-old singer Brandy Norwood was involved in a December 30 car crash in Los Angeles which claimed the life of a 38-year-old woman
Togo 's constitutional court has confirmed that the ruling party won a clear majority in the country 's parliamentary elections earlier this month .
Court officials said Tuesday that the Rally for the Togolese People garnered 50 out of 81 seats in the October 14 vote .
The opposition 's Union of Forces for Change obtained 27 seats .
The Action Committee for Renewal won four seats .
Togo 's election commission last week said it could not announce the official results because of irregularities during a vote count in Lome district .
European and African observers declared the election generally fair , but opposition parties have complained of fraud .
The government hopes that the election will unlock millions of dollars in much-needed international donor aid .
The European Union froze its assistance to Togo in 1993 , citing the west African country 's poor human rights record .
A MEMBER of the Kansas Legislature meeting a Cake of Soap was passing it by without recognition , but the Cake of Soap insisted on stopping and shaking hands .
Thinking it might possibly be in the enjoyment of the elective franchise , he gave it a cordial and earnest grasp .
On letting it go he observed that a portion of it adhered to his fingers , and running to a brook in great alarm he proceeded to wash it off .
In doing so he necessarily got some on the other hand , and when he had finished washing , both were so white that he went to bed and sent for a physician .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out a series of attacks against security forces in Baghdad early Thursday , killing more than 20 people .
Police say a suicide bombing at an army recruitment center in a western part of the capital killed at least 13 people and wounded several others .
Elsewhere in Baghdad , nine policemen were killed when gunmen ambushed two police patrols .
And , a security guard was killed in a car bomb blast that was apparently aimed at a senior Interior Ministry official , who escaped injuries .
Meanwhile , the death toll from Wednesday 's suicide bombing in the northern Kurdish city of Irbil has risen to 60 .
The militant group Ansar al-Sunnah claimed responsibility for that attack , saying it was in retaliation for Kurdish cooperation with U.S. and coalition forces .
Insurgents have stepped up attacks across Iraq since Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari announced a partial cabinet last week .
Bolivian opposition leaders have staged protests against President Evo Morales in three of the country 's provinces .
Friday 's protests were centered in the wealthy eastern region of Santa Cruz .
The demonstrators say Mr. Morales has unfairly excluded them from taking part in a planned re-write of Bolivia 's constitution .
The president 's Movement Toward Socialism Party controls the assembly formed to re-write the constitution .
The party wants to make amendments based on a simple majority of votes .
Opposition parties say a two-thirds majority should be required for such changes .
Mr. Morales has vowed to give greater political and economic power to the poor and indigenous peoples in Bolivia .
His recent moves to redistribute land ownership and nationalize the country 's oil and natural gas sectors have been unpopular among conservatives .
Kyrgyzstan 's acting foreign minister says those who deported four Uzbek asylum seekers back to Uzbekistan will be severely punished .
Roza Otunbayeva told a news conference at the Voice of America Tuesday that the four were returned in violation of Kyrgyz law and without the presence of U.N. human rights officials .
She said an investigation is underway .
More than 400 Uzbeks remain in a refugee camp on the Kyrgyz border .
They fled political violence in Uzbekistan last month when troops fired on unarmed protesters in Andijon .
Witnesses say hundreds were killed .
Ms. Otunbayeva met earlier Tuesday with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
She said the talks were fruitful and described the meeting as a turning point for Kyrgyzstan 's new government .
Former President Askar Akayev fled the country during a popular uprising in March against a parliamentary election that the opposition and independent monitors say was rigged .
The controversial relationship in the United States between the medical profession and the drug industry is in the spotlight .
A prominent medical publication , The Journal of the American Medical Association , has criticized the results of two clinical trials by the pharmaceutical giant , Merck .
The clinical trials , completed before the drug was later taken off the market , tested an anti-inflammatory drug called Vioxx for possible treatment of Alzheimer 's disease .
VOA 's Melinda Smith examines the possible conflicts of interest raised by the journal article , and whether lives might have been saved if the public had known more .
Iraq 's foreign minister says he has asked Iran for information about the three Americans being held in Iran for allegedly crossing the border without permission .
Hoshyar Zebari says he brought up the Americans during a meeting this week with Iran 's Ambassador Hassan Kazemi Qomi , but he does not give further details about the conversation .
The United States does not have diplomatic ties with Iran and is working through the Swiss embassy in Tehran to obtain information on the hikers .
Shane Bauer , Sarah Shourd and Josh Fattal were detained by Iranian authorities on July 31 after allegedly crossing the border while hiking in the mountains of Iraq 's Kurdistan region .
Iranian television has described the three as spies .
Shon Meckfessel , a friend who says he stayed behind at an Iraqi hotel because he was sick , has said the other hikers made a " simple and very regrettable mistake . "
Kenyan runners have swept the top three places at the Philadelphia Marathon in Pennsylvania .
Joseph Nderitu covered the 42-kilometer course Sunday in 2:21.02 .
He outdistanced countrymen Joshua Koros by almost two minutes ( 2:22.52 ) and another minute ahead of Joseph Kamau ( 2:23.57 ) .
Nderitu , the 2003 race winner , made his move in the 37th kilometer , dropping Koros with a surge that left him in front by 25 seconds at the 39th kilometer mark .
Among the women , Philadelphia resident Emily Kroshus took the title in her first marathon with a time of 2:43.07 .
Kroshus pulled away from runner-up Larisa Michailova of Russia after 19 kilometers .
Kroshus attempted the New York City Marathon last year but did n't finish .
A new report says nearly 4,000 people have been killed in fighting in Afghanistan this year .
The Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board Monday , says insurgent violence has killed 3700 people so far this year , most of them rebels .
The report also says militants launch about 600 attacks a month , four times higher than last year 's monthly average .
The monitoring board is comprised of Afghan and international representatives , including the United Nations .
The report comes as Afghan officials announced that the bodies of 20 Taleban militants had been recovered from Bermel district in Paktika province , where NATO and Afghan forces recently conducted a mission .
A U.S.-backed operation pushed the Taleban from power in 2001 , but members of the extremist group continue to fight Afghan and foreign forces defending the Kabul government .
Iran 's parliament speaker has criticized U.S. President-elect Barack Obama for saying Tehran 's pursuit of nuclear weapons is unacceptable .
Iranian state media ( IRNA ) quotes Ali Larijani as saying Mr. Obama 's remark signifies pursuit of what Larijani called the same " erroneous U.S. policy of the past . "
Larijani said the United States should send appropriate signals to Middle Eastern countries if it wants to change the situation in the region .
Mr. Obama referred to Iran 's atomic program on Friday in his first news conference since winning the U.S. presidential election .
He also said Iran 's support for terrorist groups must cease .
He also said he will review a letter of congratulation sent to him by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and respond appropriately .
The United States and its Western allies accuse Iran of working to produce a nuclear weapon .
Iran says its atomic program is intended solely to generate electricity .
President Bush has ordered all White House staff to attend a new round of ethics briefings in the wake of the indictment of a top aide .
In a memo released Saturday , President Bush told his entire staff to attend the briefings , which will include procedures for handling classified information .
The announcement comes one week after Vice President Dick Cheney 's chief of staff , Lewis Libby , was charged with obstruction of justice and perjury .
The case involves the leak of the identity of a CIA officer married to a critic of the intelligence leading up to the Iraq war .
In their weekly radio address , Democrats say there are very serious questions about how the Bush administration handled pre-war intelligence .
Senator Barbara Mikulski , of the state of Maryland also said Mr. Bush should fire all those involved in the leak of the CIA officer 's name .
Dozens of anti-war demonstrators have squared off with counter-protesters near President Bush 's Crawford , Texas ranch .
As protesters seeking the U.S. withdrawal from Iraq rallied Saturday , flag-waving Bush supporters , carrying signs in favor of the war , gathered across the street .
Authorities turned out in force to keep the two groups separated .
The protests come as the mother of a U.S. soldier killed in Iraq remains encamped along a road near Mr. Bush 's ranch , calling for a meeting with the president .
Cindy Sheehan says she is asking the president to tell her what her son died for since no weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq .
Mr. Bush has said it would be a mistake to bring the troops home now .
He reiterated that message Saturday in his weekly radio address .
NATO has assumed command of 12,000 U.S. troops in eastern Afghanistan , completing the alliance 's hold on security throughout the country .
NATO now commands international forces across the country and its capital , Kabul .
It is the organization 's largest operation .
The ceremony marking the transfer of command was held in Kabul Thursday .
U.S. and NATO commanders as well as Afghan President Hamid Karzai attended .
President Karzai thanked his allies for their help in battling terrorism .
The commander of NATO 's Afghan force , British General David Richards , said the unity of command the transfer brought will enhance the effectiveness of the overall operation .
Referring to the fight in southern Afghanistan since NATO took command there in July , Richards said the NATO force has shown its resolve to meet the challenges of its expanded mission .
Richards was promoted to four-star general hours before the command change .
Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has met with the man who once headed the now-disbanded secret police , under orders from a judge trying to determine responsibility for the disappearance of 119 Pinochet foes while in custody in 1975 .
The judge is investigating which of the two men had direct control over the secret police , known as DINA , at the time of the disappearances and other human rights abuses .
General Pinochet has denied being in direct control of DINA , but General Contreras has said the retired dictator was head of the organization .
Lawyers for General Contreras , who is currently serving a 12-year prison sentence in a related case , sought Friday 's meeting after General Pinochet distanced himself from DINA 's activities .
General Pinochet ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990 .
The White House has welcomed a Dubai company 's request for a new security review of its planned take-over of some operations at six American ports .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Monday that the new review should dispel the concerns of some lawmakers .
He said President Bush remains confident that the $ 7-billion deal does not present a security problem .
Sunday , Dubai Ports World said it plans to ask U.S. officials to conduct a 45-day review of the proposed deal , which would be broader than an earlier inquiry .
Some U.S. lawmakers , however , say they still have concerns about possible terrorist links to Dubai , and have threatened to block the deal .
President Bush has said he will veto any legislation blocking or delaying the deal .
The Treasury Department says the new review will be conducted by the same panel of national security agencies involved in the initial study .
A police raid that killed three militants holding hostages at a mosque has sparked angry protests in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Thousands of people in the Palnoo village in the southern district of Kulgam demonstrated against the police action Tuesday .
Authorities said three of the five hostages escaped Monday when they were allowed to leave the mosque for food , but refused to go back .
The other two hostages were freed after police fired teargas shells into the mosque , forcing the militants into the open , where two were killed .
The third militant fled to one of the mosque 's minarets where he died in an exchange of gunfire with police .
Various Islamic militant groups have been fighting for Kashmir 's independence from predominantly Hindu India , with some groups demanding its merger with mostly Muslim Pakistan .
Australian officials say Iraq has given assurances it will not suspend wheat imports over oil-for-food kickbacks allegedly paid under the rule of Saddam Hussein .
The officials made the comment Sunday after Iraqi Deputy Prime Minster Ahmed Chalabi was quoted Saturday by the Australian newspaper as saying a boycott would be imposed until Australia pays compensation for hundreds of millions of dollars funneled to the Saddam government .
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Sunday that diplomats had spoken to Mr. Chalabi , who denied the boycott story .
A U.N.-commissioned report alleges that Australia 's monopoly wheat exporter , the Australian Wheat Board , paid about $ 220 million that found its way to the former Iraqi leadership .
AWB has said it knew nothing about any kickbacks .
Palestinian Fatah party gunmen have fired shots in the air from the roof of the Palestinian parliament building in the West Bank town of Ramallah , demanding the resignation of Fatah leaders .
The gunmen , angry over Fatah 's stunning election loss this week to the militant group Hamas , chanted that Fatah will not participate in a Hamas-led government .
Some gunmen later approached the compound of Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas .
There were no reports of casualties .
Meanwhile , the senior leader of Hamas says the group will not disarm or change its policies toward Israel .
Speaking Saturday from his base in Damascus , Syria , Khaled Mashaal also said the Palestinians will not be blackmailed by international threats to cut off Palestinian aid .
Hamas has claimed many suicide attacks against Israel in recent years and has vowed to destroy the Jewish state .
A new Egyptian ambassador has arrived in Israel to take up a post that had been vacant during more than four years of Israeli-Palestinian fighting .
The restoration of full diplomatic relations between Israel and Egypt comes ahead of Israel 's planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip later this year .
Egypt and Jordan , the only Arab countries that have signed peace treaties with Israel , downgraded relations after the September , 2000 outbreak of a Palestinian uprising , protesting what they said was Israel 's excessively forceful response .
Following a February eighth Middle East summit in Egypt , where Israel and the Palestinians promised to end the violence between them , Egypt and Jordan said they would again post ambassadors to Israel .
Jordan 's ambassador arrived in Tel Aviv on February 20 .
Afghan man looks at the waistcoat , stained with blood , of Mullah Abdul Fayaz Suspected Taleban militants have killed a leading Muslim cleric in southern Afghanistan .
Local authorities say Mullah Abdul Fayaz was shot and killed in front of his office in Kandahar city Sunday by two gunmen on a motorcycle .
So far , no one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
But the French news agency quoted a spokesman for the ousted Taleban as saying Mullah Fayaz was preaching against the Taleban and " deserved to die " .
Mr. Fayaz was a supporter of Afghan President Hamid Karzai .
Last week , he lead a gathering of clerics from across Afghanistan who condemned the Taleban and called on people to support the government .
The Taleban have declared a holy war against Mr. Karzai 's U.S.-backed government and anyone supporting the presence of foreign troops and aid workers .
England 's national football ( soccer ) team has defeated Paraguay , 1-0 , in a Group-B World Cup match in Frankfurt , Germany .
An own-goal by Paraguayan team captain Carlos Gamarra in the fourth minute was all the scoring England needed .
David Beckham made a free kick from the left flank and Gamarra inadvertently headed the ball into his own net .
England 's next match is Thursday against Trinidad and Tobago in Nuremberg .
Paraguay faces Sweden in Berlin on the same day .
The Swedes and Trinidad and Tobago played to a scoreless draw in a Group-B match in Dortmund .
The so-called " Soca Warriors " are making their first appearance in the tournament and held off Sweden despite being a man down .
John Avery was sent off for a second yellow card shortly after halftime .
Other action Saturday has two-time champion Argentina facing Ivory Coast in Hamburg in a Group-C match .
Witnesses in Somalia say fighting between Islamist insurgents and government troops has killed at least seven people , including a small child , in the southern town of Jowhar .
Residents say the insurgents seized control of the town , north of the capital Mogadishu , early Wednesday , after a brief battle with government forces .
They say at least four Somali soldiers were among the dead in Jowhar .
Witnesses say the insurgents also released prisoners from the town 's central jail before withdrawing from the town .
The interim Somali government and its Ethiopian backers have been battling an Islamist insurgency for more than a year .
The fighting has killed thousands of people in Mogadishu alone and forced at least a half-million others to flee the city .
The insurgency began after a joint Somali-Ethiopian offensive drove a militant Islamist movement from power in southern Somalia in late 2006 .
The grieving mother who started an anti-war demonstration near President Bush 's Crawford , Texas ranch has left the protest site because her mother had a stroke .
Cindy Sheehan left for Los Angeles Thursday to be with her ailing mother .
Mrs. Sheehan said she will be back as soon as possible , if it is possible , but that the anti-war vigil near the ranch will continue .
Mrs. Sheehan 's son , Casey , was killed in Iraq last year .
She traveled to Crawford earlier this month , demanding to talk with the vacationing president and calling for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq .
Mr. Bush has said he sympathizes with Mrs. Sheehan but has declined to meet with her .
The president says he will not pull troops out of Iraq prematurely .
U.S. Republican presidential candidate John McCain quickly lashed out after his Democratic rival , Barack Obama , revealed his choice for vice president .
The McCain campaign released a statement and launched a television ad Saturday - hours after Obama announced that he had selected Delaware Senator Joe Biden .
The television ad uses a 2007 clip in which Biden says he does not believe Obama is ready to be president .
In McCain 's campaign statement , spokesman Ben Porritt says there has been no harsher critic of what he called Obama 's lack of experience than Joe Biden .
McCain may announce his running mate during a rally on August 29 , three days before the start of the Republican National Convention .
His top contenders are said to include former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney , Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty , and former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge , who was also the country 's first Homeland Security director .
Jordanian authorities have arrested an Iraqi man suspected of taking part in rocket attacks at the Red Sea port of Aqaba .
Officials said Saturday 's arrest came as police seized four more rockets in a warehouse near the port .
Officials say they are still looking for an Iraqi and four Egyptians who rented the warehouse days ahead of Friday 's attack .
One rocket in the attack flew over an American naval ship at the port and struck a Jordanian military warehouse , killing one soldier .
Another exploded near a military hospital , and a third landed on Israel 's side of the border .
A group linked to al-Qaida has claimed responsibility for the attack .
TWO FROGS were neighbors .
One inhabited a deep pond , far removed from public view ; the other lived in a gully containing little water , and traversed by a country road .
The Frog that lived in the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated him to come and live with him , saying that he would enjoy greater safety from danger and more abundant food .
The other refused , saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he had become accustomed .
A few days afterwards a heavy wagon passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its wheels .
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says delays by Israel in carrying out promises made in a recent ceasefire deal are undermining the peace process .
In comments to the Palestinian parliament Tuesday , Mr. Abbas said Israel has been slow to act on the release of prisoners and its promise to withdraw from parts of the West Bank .
He made his remarks ahead of a meeting later today with Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz .
They are expected to discuss the handover to the Palestinian Authority of the West Bank town of Tulkarem .
Their talks will be the highest-level discussions between the two sides since last month 's historic summit in Egypt , where Israel and the Palestinians signed a truce aimed at renewing the peace process .
A suicide car bomb attack on a U.S. embassy convoy in Afghanistan 's capital , Kabul , has killed one Afghan teenager and injured several other people .
Joe Mellot , a U.S. Embassy spokesman , says Ambassador Ronald Neumann was not in the convoy .
But he says several embassy officials and pedestrians were seriously wounded .
Monday 's car bombing took place on a busy main road leading to the U.S. base at Bagram .
Taleban militants have claimed responsibility for the attack .
It comes as NATO , U.S. and Afghan forces prepare for an increase in attacks from the Taleban .
Last year , a resurgent Taleban movement staged the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since the ouster of the Taleban government by U.S. led forces in 2001 .
NATO has launched an offensive in southern Afghanistan to preempt an anticipated spring offensive by Taleban militants .
Lawyers for eight communities from Nigeria 's oil-producing Niger Delta have filed suit demanding that international oil firms stop burning off gas - a process known as " flaring . "
Activists argue that flaring pollutes the environment and contributes to global warming .
The Nigerian government and oil companies have promised to phase out the practice over the next several years .
But oil giant Royal Dutch Shell has admitted its plan to stop burning off gas from its wells and rigs - which produces huge orange flames following by dense black smoke - is behind schedule .
Nigeria is Africa 's biggest oil producing nation , pumping an estimated 2.3 billion barrels of crude per day .
Iraqi police say six people have died during a gunbattle between insurgents and U.S. forces in the northern city of Mosul .
Police say insurgents attacked a U.S. military patrol near a checkpoint in Mosul .
American forces returned fire and six people , including at least two bystanders , were killed during the battle .
The U.S. military had no immediate comment on the incident .
This violence comes as tens of thousands of Shi'ite pilgrims are traveling to Iraq 's central city , Karbala , for Thursday 's solemn Al-Arbaeen religious holiday .
In Baghdad , no new developments were reported after Tuesday 's chaotic national assembly session where lawmakers failed to agree on a parliament speaker .
Two federal policemen walk past crosses standing where eight women were found sexually assaulted and murdered in 2001 in Ciudad Juarez Mexican authorities say one woman has been murdered and another raped in a city on the U.S. border known for hundreds of violent crimes against women for more than a decade .
Officials say a 20-year-old woman was stabbed and sexually assaulted before her body was dumped on the street in an industrial district .
Her body was found Thursday , the same day another woman was raped , beaten and left for dead in the middle of a street .
About 350 women have been brutally murdered over a 12-year period in Ciudad Juarez , Mexico , located just across the border from the southwestern U.S. city of El~Paso , Texas .
More than 100 of the victims were sexually assaulted .
A roadside bomb in eastern Afghanistan has killed eight civilians .
Officials say women and children were among the victims of Monday 's blast in Ghazni province .
The French news agency quotes a provincial police as saying the bomb was planted by the Taliban .
In southern Afghanistan , NATO said a joint Afghan-international force has killed a Taliban commander and several armed individuals .
The alliance says the Afghan and coalition forces encountered hostile fire Sunday at a compound outside Kandahar City .
The forces returned fire , killing Taliban commander Shyster Uhstad Khan , and several others .
One suspected insurgent was detained .
NATO say Khan was involved in the distribution and purchase of explosives .
A man whose home was raided by British police on suspicion of terrorism said police never identified themselves and shot him without warning .
Mohammed Abdul Kahar was shot in the shoulder when about 250 police officers burst into his home before dawn on June 2 .
The police were acting on information that a chemical bomb was being made on the property .
Kahar and his brother , Abul Koyair , were detained on suspicion of terrorism and released without charge a week later .
Both brothers said in a news conference Tuesday , that they were beaten by police during the raid .
The London police have come under heavy criticism for the raid .
They have defended their actions , saying they received very specific intelligence that they had to act on .
The U.S. Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation into the beating of a 64-year old black man in flood-ravaged New Orleans .
The probe announced Monday was launched following the release of a videotape showing two uniformed New Orleans police officers repeatedly punching Robert Davis in the face and body as he was being arrested for public drunkedness .
Another officer is shown shoving and screaming at a news producer who was documenting the confrontation .
The three white police officers have been suspended from the police force without pay .
In court Monday , the men pleaded not guilty to charges of battery in connection with the Saturday evening incident .
An attorney for Mr. Davis said his client had not been drinking .
He said the retired school teacher had suffered fractures to the head from the beating , but was expected to recover .
Hummam Hammoudi Against a backdrop of more violence Tuesday , Iraqi legislators appear to be moving closer to beginning work on drafting a permanent constitution for Iraq .
Shi'ite cleric Hummam Hammoudi says he has been chosen to head the 55-member drafting committee .
Mr. Hammoudi is a member of the United Iraqi Alliance , which holds a slim majority in the national assembly .
He said a Kurdish legislator , Fouad Massoum , and a Sunni Arab lawmaker , Adnan al-Janabi , had been chosen to be his deputies .
However , parliament has not formally announced the positions .
The committee will have three months to draw up a permanent constitution acceptable to Iraq 's political and religious communities .
It will then go to a referendum in October .
Meanwhile , insurgents continued their efforts to disrupt the new government .
Officials say a car bomb explosion in central Baghdad killed two civilians and three U.S. soldiers .
European Union veterinary experts have extended for two months a ban on imports of captive live birds from outside the bloc in response to the threat of bird flu .
The European Union imposed a ban on such imports last month after an imported parrot , believed to have contracted avian flu , died in quarantine in Britain .
The ban was to expire at the end of this month , but has now been extended to the end of January .
European Union officials have taken various measures to deal with the spread of the bird flu which originated in Asia and now has reached Europe .
A U.S. judge has ordered the extradition of Bosnia-Herzegovina 's former United Nations ambassador , who faces embezzlement charges in Bosnia .
In his ruling , late Wednesday , New York Judge Frank Maas granted a petition by Bosnian authorities - who have accused former ambassador Muhamed Sacirbey of stealing $ 2.4 million in Bosnian public funds .
But the judge stayed his ruling for 10 days to give the accused time to appeal .
Bosnian officials say the missing funds include $ 1.8 million from an investment bank and another $ 600,000 from their country 's U.N. mission .
Mr. Sacirbey , who has dual U.S. and Bosnian citizenship , has denied the charges and fought the extradition request .
He was Bosnia Herzegovina 's U.N. ambassador between 1992 and 2000 .
The Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts is home to many of New York 's most famous artistic organizations including the Metropolitan Opera , New York Philharmonic and the New York City Ballet .
Right now ( through July 27 ) the entertainment venue is hosting its annual Lincoln Center Festival , three weeks of special performances from around the world .
VOA 's Behnam Nateghi has more on this year 's festival .
The Zaragoza airport in northern Spain was evacuated Wednesday after it received threats made in the name of the Basque separatist group ETA .
Officials say they received word that a rocket launcher had been set up to carry out an attack during a two-hour time frame .
Police found no explosives or any evidence an attack was planned .
The airport has been reopened .
ETA fired a rocket at the Zaragoza airport in June , but no one was hurt .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths since the 1960s when it began its armed campaign for an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
AN Eagle mortally wounded by an Archer was greatly comforted to observe that the arrow was feathered with one of his own quills .
" I should have felt bad , indeed , " he said , " to think that any other eagle had a hand in this . "
Burma 's military government said today that ex-Prime Minister Khin Nyunt was ousted last month because his investigations of military commanders threatened the unity of the armed forces .
State-controlled newspapers on Sunday published a speech delivered October 24 by ruling council member General Thura Shwe Mahn , who said Khin Nyunt began investigating rival officers after being told he would be replaced as military intelligence chief .
Thura Shwe Mahn said those actions posed a serious threat to the unity of the military and the nation .
He also told businessmen with connections to Khin Nyunt to disclose that information to the ruling council .
The former prime minister was replaced October 19 by hardliner Lieutenant General Soe Win .
The change in leaders is believed to be indicative of deep divisions within the government .
The presidents of Iraq and Afghanistan are among those gathering in Austria Monday for a three-day international conference on Islam .
Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik says the conference , titled " Islam in a Pluralistic World , " is aimed at improving understanding and dialogue between Muslims and non-Muslims .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani , Afghan President Hamid Karzai and former Iranian president Mohammed Khatami are expected to attend .
So is 2003 Nobel Peace Prize winner and Iranian human rights attorney Shirin Ebadi .
The conference comes amid increasing awareness of the differences over how Muslims and non-Muslims in Europe view Islam 's place in their society .
Turkey has accused several neighboring countries of concealing bird flu outbreaks and hampering an effort to stop the spread of the disease .
Agriculture Minister Mehdi Eker told a news conference Friday Turkey has knowledge through unofficial sources that bird flu exists in what he described as " neighboring countries , which are ruled by closed regimes . "
He did not name the countries , but said their governments do not declare the existence of the disease .
Ankara has reported at least four deaths from the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Turkey 's outbreak is centered in the east , bordering Syria , Iraq , Iran and Armenia .
The U.N. Food and Agricultural Organization has warned that the bird flu that has hit Turkey may already have arrived in neighboring countries .
The FAO urged authorities in those nations to increase efforts to detect outbreaks .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says the United States has denied visas to his security staff , hampering his visit to the United Nations General Assembly in New York .
Mr. Chavez says his still considering whether he will attend the U.N. summit , which begins Wednesday .
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Caracas has denied Mr. Chavez 's claim , saying no visas were denied to the Venezuelan delegation .
Mr. Chavez has repeatedly accused the United States of trying to topple his government , an accusation the United States has denied .
Top-seeded Maria Sharapova of Russia has defeated Australian Samantha Stosur , 6-1 , 6-4 , to reach the semifinals of the Pan Pacific Open women 's tennis tournament in Tokyo .
That sets up a showdown Saturday with former world number-one Martina Hingis of Switzerland .
Hingis , who entered the tournament as a wild card , won her quarterfinal against Russian Maria Kirilenko , 6-2 , 6-1 .
Hingis has won this event four times , but last played it in 2002 before her three-year retirement with foot injuries .
Sharapova is the defending champion and has never before played Hingis .
Other quarterfinal winners Friday were second-seeded Elena Dementieva and Russian compatriot Anastasia Myskina .
Dementieva recovered from a first-set loss to defeat fifth-seeded Czech Nicole Vaidisova , 3-6 , 6-1 , 6-2 , and Myskina rallied to beat countrywoman Elena Likhovtseva 4-6 , 6-2 , 6-3 .
German politicians are demanding that Polish Defense Minister Radek Sikorski minister take back comments comparing a German-Russian pipeline deal to the 1939 Nazi-Soviet pact .
The proposed pipeline would be built under the Baltic Sea , north of Poland and bypassing Polish territory .
Sikorski said earlier this week that Poland is particularly sensitive to deals made above its head .
He said the oil pipeline deal is in the Molotov-Ribbentrop tradition , referring to the infamous 1939 pact between the Soviet and Nazi German foreign ministers dividing Poland between the two countries .
Sikorski also criticized German Chancellor Angela Merkel to for not renegotiating the deal which was made by the previous German government .
A European Commission spokesman Tuesday called Sikorski 's comments about the pipeline deal unhelpful .
An Indonesian child receives a polio vaccination in Jakarta Indonesia began a second round of polio vaccinations Tuesday as the World Health Organization announced 10 new cases of the disease in West Java and Banten provinces .
Jakarta first launched a massive drive in May to immunize 6.5 million children , one month after the country confirmed its first case of polio 10 years .
The number of Indonesian children diagnosed with polio now stands at 65 .
Indonesia is one of several countries where polio has re-emerged since 2003 , and the first outside Africa and the Middle East .
The outbreak has been traced to northern Nigeria , where hard-line Muslims had boycotted a vaccination campaign .
The European Union says U.S. airstrikes in Somalia are not helpful to efforts to bring long-term stability to the war-torn east African nation .
Tuesday , a spokesman for E.U. Development Commissioner Louis Michel said the withdrawal of Ethiopian troops and the deployment of an international peacekeeping force are the best ways to ensure Somalia 's security .
He said only a political solution that includes all of Somalia 's political forces can bring lasting peace and stability to the nation .
The U.S. military has confirmed an AC-130 gunship carried out air strikes in southern Somalia Sunday .
It says the attack targeted the principal al-Qaida leadership in the region .
Israel 's military chief , Lieutenant-General Dan Halutz , has resigned amid inquiries into last year 's conflict with Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
General Halutz submitted his resignation to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defense Minister Amir Peretz Tuesday .
He said he decided " it was time for him to assume responsibilities " and step down , after overseeing the military 's own investigations into the war .
Israel 's Defense Ministry says General Halutz will remain in his post until a successor is named .
General Halutz as well as the Olmert government faced heavy criticism over the military 's performance during the 34-day war .
The conflict ended with Israel falling short of its goals of stopping Hezbollah from firing rockets into Israel and of securing the release of two Israeli soldiers .
Hezbollah gunmen had seized the two soldiers in a deadly cross border raid .
A teacher has been stabbed to death in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca , where demonstrators have been calling on the governor to resign .
Reports from the scene say the man died Thursday and that he opposed a statewide teachers ' strike that began several months ago .
Protests have become increasingly violent , with at least three dead .
Pro-strike demonstrators accuse Governor Ulises Ruiz of corruption and for months they have called on him to step down .
Military aircraft have flown over the demonstrations in recent days , but the Mexican government said Thursday it will not order troops to move against the protesters .
The U.S. State Department has warned citizens against travel in the area .
Iran and Egypt are to hold talks aimed at restoring full bilateral relations .
A spokesman for the Egyptian Foreign Ministry , Hossam Zaki said Tuesday , the two countries have agreed to continue dialogue at the level of senior officials and then foreign ministers .
Iran severed ties with Egypt in 1980 to protest Cairo 's recognition of Israel the year before .
Iran angered Egypt , in turn , by naming a street after the assassin of Anwar Sadat , the Egyptian leader killed in 1981 after he made peace with Israel .
In May , Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tehran is ready to restore full diplomatic relations with Egypt , and could open its embassy in Cairo as soon as the Egyptian government agreed .
Iran and Egypt currently have interest sections in their respective countries .
Croatian war crimes suspect General Ante Gotovina is in the custody of the United Nations tribunal in The Hague , arriving there following his arrest in Spain .
After General Gotovina 's arrest in the Canary Islands Wednesday , authorities determined that he spent the years after his 2001 indictment on the run in countries around the world .
He is expected to appear before the court next week .
The tribunal indicted him on charges of a role in the deaths of civilians during a Croatian army sweep through a Serb-held region of the country in 1995 .
The sweep sent thousands of Croatian Serbs fleeing the country .
The European Union and United States welcomed the arrest .
But thousands of the general 's supporters protested the arrest in Croatia 's port city of Zadar Saturday .
They call him a hero who helped free Croatia from the former Yugoslavia .
South African President Jacob Zuma says the country has made " good returns " on the estimated $ 4.2 billion it spent to host the World Cup .
Speaking to a group of investors in Cape Town Tuesday , Mr. Zuma said the building of stadiums created 66,000 new construction jobs , and that security improvements added 40,000 new , permanent police positions .
He said hosting the tournament has also produced social benefits , such as creating unity among South Africans and improving the country 's image as a tourist destination .
Mr. Zuma said the government chose to bid for the World Cup because it " wanted to show that Africa could do it . "
This is the first time any African nation has hosted the World Cup , one of the world 's biggest sporting events .
The monthlong tournament ends on Sunday .
The Bush administration says terrorist suspects being held in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , have no constitutional right to challenge their detention in U.S. civilian courts .
In court papers filed Monday , the Justice Department asked an appeals court to dismiss hundreds of cases by detainees at the prison camp .
Lawyers for the detainees have argued the government can not detain terrorist suspects overseas and hold them without access to civilian courts .
But the Justice Department says a new law signed by President Bush last month gives military officials broad authority to detain suspects abroad .
Officials have created a system of military commissions to prosecute cases against suspects at Guantanamo Bay .
Military officials say hearings could begin early next year for dozens of suspected terrorists at the camp .
European Union defense ministers are meeting in Innsbruck , Austria Monday to try to bolster support for an EU military peacekeeping force in Democratic Republic of Congo .
The strife-torn African nation is preparing for its first free elections since it gained independence from Belgium in 1961 .
The United Nations has asked for a few hundred European troops to add to the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo .
Several European countries support the idea .
but have been reluctant to commit troops without specific guidelines for their use .
Iran says it will retaliate against any U.N. sanctions on its nuclear program .
Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said Sunday in Tehran any U.N. sanctions will have regional and international repercussions .
He did not elaborate on actions Tehran might take in response to sanctions .
But he said the government would take what he called " appropriate measures . "
Hosseini 's comments come days before a draft resolution is expected to be submitted to the U.N. Security Council calling for limited sanctions against Tehran .
The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman says Iran still wants to negotiate a settlement of the issue .
But he reaffirmed Tehran 's rejection of Western calls for the Islamic republic to halt uranium enrichment before negotiations can take place .
Western nations , led by the United States , say Iran is seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is solely aimed at generating energy .
France 's lower house of parliament , the National Assembly , has voted to extend a national state of emergency for three months in response to the worst civil unrest to hit the country in decades .
The vote followed hours of debate as the opposition Socialists called the extension unnecessary because the violence is abating .
Police officials say only 215 vehicles were burned Monday night in the 19th straight night of violence in predominantly Muslim-inhabited areas of the country .
Some officials described the development as almost a return to normal .
Earlier , Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin made a surprise visit to the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois hard-hit by the riots .
He said authorities will be firm with lawbreakers , but stressed his determination to deal with injustice , discrimination and unemployment .
Oil giant ExxonMobil 's profits surged to a record in the last three months of 2005 .
The world 's largest publicly traded oil company Monday said it made $ 10.7 billion in the fourth quarter .
The results were $ 2.3 billion better than the same period a year ago , and even larger than analysts expected .
ExxonMobil benefited from record-high oil prices that soared as strong demand from growing economies in India , China , and the United States outstripped what oil exporting nations could produce .
The Bloomberg Financial News service reports that ExxonMobil 's annual sales are larger than the gross domestic product of some significant nations like Sweden or Indonesia .
Nuclear rivals Pakistan and India have exchanged lists of their nuclear installations and facilities .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry says in a statement that Islamabad and New Delhi Sunday swapped the information under a 1988 agreement in which they promised not to attack such installations .
The two countries have been exchanging such lists each New Year 's Day since 1992 .
The nuclear-armed neighbors have a history of bitter relations .
They have fought three wars since independence from Britain in 1947 , two of them over the Himalayan region of Kashmir .
But in January 2004 they began a series of peace talks aimed at resolving all their disputes , including the Kashmir issue .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he will set parliamentary elections in Chechnya for November 27 .
Speaking on Sunday at a meeting with Chechen President Alu Alkhanov in the Black Sea resort of Sochi , Mr. Putin promised to sign the order establishing the date for the elections .
He said the vote will help give political stability to the region .
The Russian news agency Interfax quoted Mr. Alkhanov as saying political and economic conditions are now suitable for an election .
On Sunday , Mr. Putin also praised Chechnya 's deputy prime minister , Ramzan Kadyrov , the son of assassinated President Akhmad Kadyrov , saying he had made steady progress in fulfilling his father 's work .
Chechnya has been the focus of a brutal conflict between separatists and Russian government forces for much of the past decade .
India and the United States have announced plans to boost defense relations , after Washington unveiled plans to sell an undetermined amount of F-16 fighter jets to India 's rival , Pakistan .
Under the agreement with India , the Bush administration is offering to increase missile defense and other security high-tech initiatives , as well as to expand economic and energy cooperation .
The accord was announced Friday , shortly after Washington said it would sell the fighter jets to Pakistan , in a major policy shift .
The United States banned the sale of fighter jets to Pakistan 15 years ago because of its nuclear weapons program .
Officials say the ban was lifted because of President Pervez Musharraf 's decision to stand with the U.S.-led war on terrorism .
U.S. officials say the administration aims to maintain the balance of power between India and Pakistan .
Plants have historically played an important role in medicine .
And large parts of the world still rely on plant medicine .
Now leading scientists are studying herbal medicine to see if it can equal or surpass medical science .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
Indian border security forces are accusing their Pakistani counterparts of lobbing at least four rockets into northern Punjab state .
Indian officials said no one was injured in Saturday 's incident but that two of the rockets landed near a border security outpost .
Two more landed in fields belonging to a nearby village .
They say not all of the rockets exploded upon impact .
Indian forces said they responded to the attack with machine-gun fire and were searching through dense fog to locate any additional shells .
India also lodged an complaint with Pakistani border officials , who denied any responsibility .
This is the third time rockets coming from the direction of Pakistan have hit India in recent months .
India has built a 553-kilometer electrified fence in Punjab , on its side of the international border with Pakistan .
Lebanon 's top Shi'ite cleric is opposing British Prime Minister Tony Blair 's expected visit to Beirut Monday .
Mr. Blair is visiting the region to support peace efforts , saying the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah militants represents a window of opportunity for progress .
On Sunday , Lebanon 's Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah said Mr. Blair is not welcome in Beirut because of his support for Israel and the United States .
The cleric said Mr. Blair should have demanded a quick cease-fire to end hostilities .
Tight security and protests are expected in the Lebanese capital during Mr. Blair 's visit .
The British leader travels to Beirut from Israel , where Palestinian and Israeli leaders pledged to revive stalled peace talks .
A date for a meeting between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has not been set .
Ukraine is defending its controversial deportation of 10 Uzbek asylum seekers , saying the men were members of an al-Qaida-linked terror group .
The Ukraine Security Agency says they were members of the militant Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan , which is blamed for bombings in the Uzbek capital , Tashkent .
The agency says the men also violated Ukrainian law by spreading radical propaganda among Ukrainians .
Ukraine deported the Uzbek men on February 14 .
Tuesday , the U.S. State Department condemned the forced return , saying the Uzbeks were apparently deported without undergoing the full asylum process under Ukrainian law .
The U.S. says Ukraine ignored United Nations appeals to allow the men to stay until all asylum procedures were followed .
Human rights groups say the men risk torture in Uzbekistan .
Thousands of people in central and southern Iraq have staged demonstrations supporting radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr and protesting the lack of basic government services .
Carrying Iraqi flags , banners with pictures of Mr. al-Sadr , and signs protesting U.S.-led coalition forces in Iraq , demonstrators in at least five cities Friday demanded that Baghdad improve water and electrical service .
Many protesters voiced support for Mr. al-Sadr 's opposition to the draft constitution currently being negotiated in the Iraqi capital .
Mr. al-Sadr has come out in support of Sunni opposition to the federal state Shi'ite leaders support .
Earlier this week , his supporters clashed with Shi'ite rivals as the cleric 's backers attempted to reopen their offices in the holy city of Najaf .
Mr. al-Sadr , who led two uprisings against U.S.-led forces last year , has appealed for his followers to demonstrate peacefully against the government and demand improvements in basic services .
Britain 's top defense official is in Afghanistan to discuss the role of NATO troops in the country , after some member nations said they want NATO forces to be limited to peacekeeping missions .
While in Kabul for talks Saturday , Defense Secretary John Reid told reporters alliance members needed " to work through " the issue of whether NATO forces should be involved in offensive combat missions .
Such operations are currently handled by the U.S.-led coalition forces .
Britain is expected to deploy more troops under NATO 's umbrella to Afghanistan 's restive southern region .
Last month , Germany , France and Spain expressed concern that peacekeeping operations and offensive operations would be linked together under one mission .
Japan says its embassy officials in Chile have met with former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori at his detention facility .
The foreign ministry says the officials met Wednesday for about 40 minutes with Mr. Fujimori , who holds Japanese citizenship .
They said he expressed satisfaction with his living conditions but is worried about his family .
The former president arrived in Chile early this week and announced that he would stay temporarily as part of a bid to return to Peru and run for president in the 2006 elections .
But Chilean authorities arrested him at Peru 's request .
Mr. Fujimori is wanted in Peru on charges that include corruption and human rights abuses .
He fled Peru in in 2000 , after 10 years in office , and has spent the past five years in exile in his parents ' native Japan .
Japan says it hopes to resolve a lengthy dispute with North Korea over kidnappings when the two countries resume talks Thursday , after a one-year break .
Japanese negotiators are to arrive Wednesday , in Beijing , a day ahead of the scheduled talks .
North Korea has admitted kidnapping Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s to train its spies .
It has admitted to 13 abductions and has returned five kidnap victims along with their families .
North Korea says the other eight abductees are dead .
Tokyo says Pyongyang has never provided conclusive proof of the deaths .
Japan says there are several other cases of suspected abductions that North Korea has not properly investigated .
The dispute has prevented North Korea from establishing diplomatic ties with Japan .
The U.S. State Department has issued its annual International Narcotics Control Strategy report , hailing real progress in Colombia and Thailand .
Assistant Secretary Bobby Charles said President Bush has removed Thailand from the list of major illicit drug-producing or drug transit countries .
Mr. Charles also said while coca and poppy production continues in Colombia , terrorist events in the country dropped 42 percent in 2004 .
He said polls indicate that Colombians are increasingly optimistic that their situation can improve , after decades of civil war and drug-related violence .
He praised President Alvaro Uribe for his tireless efforts .
The assistant secretary said Afghanistan remains a " special case , " despite redoubled efforts by its new government .
Roughly 90 percent of the world 's heroine comes from Afghanistan , and the area under poppy cultivation increased in 2004 .
Polish police have arrested more than 200 people in Warsaw , after supporters of a Polish football team went on a rampage to celebrate their team 's championship .
At least 30 policemen were injured , as fans of Legia Warsaw smashed up shops and outdoor cafes in the capital 's Old Town quarter that is popular with tourists .
Drunken fans hurled stones at police , who responded with tear gas and water cannon .
Football-related violence has been a growing problem in Poland , prompting concerns that Polish fans could cause trouble at next month 's World Cup in Germany .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has accused Russia of deliberately damaging key gas and electric lines that service the former Soviet republic .
President Saakashvili said in a televised address Sunday that Moscow 's explanation of sabotage is " inadequate and contradictory . "
He spoke hours after two explosions cut off natural gas supplies to Georgia , and another blast damaged a high-voltage power line .
Russian officials say a criminal investigation is underway into the blasts .
Mr. Saakashvili also called Moscow an " unprincipled blackmailer " for recently doubling the price it charges Georgia for natural gas .
He said Russian politicians threatened to cut off Georgia 's heat and electricity , and now such utilities have been cut during the coldest winter in decades .
A spokesman for Russia 's natural gas giant , Gazprom , says gas supplies to Georgia will be restored as soon as possible .
It is almost certain that the National Football League 's New Orleans Saints will have to play all their home games this season somewhere other than their hurricane- and flood-ravaged city .
Their home stadium , The Superdome , suffered major damage and was used as a refuge for thousands of people while the surrounding city was flooded , and it could be uninhabitable for months .
The New Orleans Saints are relocating their workouts to Trinity University in San Antonio , Texas .
The first home NFL game for the team this season is scheduled for September 18 against the New York Giants .
The two most mentioned alternative sites for the game are the Alamodome in San Antonio or the 90,000 - seat stadium in Baton Rouge , which is the home of Louisiana State University .
Saints club officials have said they would like to keep the home games in Louisiana .
U.S.-based software giant Microsoft says it has offered to buy Internet search engine Yahoo for $ 44.6 billion .
Microsoft , based in the northwestern state of Washington , announced its offer Friday , in a deal that includes both cash and stocks .
Microsoft says it will offer $ 31 a share for Yahoo , which represents a 62 percent premium above its closing stock price on Thursday .
The offer comes a day after former Yahoo chief executive officer Terry Semel stepped down as chairman of the company 's board of executives .
Semel resigned his post as CEO last June as the California-based company began losing market share to rival search engine Google .
Yahoo announced earlier this week that it was laying off 1,000 employees as part of a cost-cutting measure .
Pakistan 's opposition Islamic alliance has vowed to observe New Year 's Day as a " black day " across the country if President does not quit as army chief .
The leader of the six-party alliance known as the MMA ( Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal ) told about 4,000 supporters in Rawalpindi he may also call for a sit-in protest in neighboring Islamabad , the capital .
Qazi Hussain Ahmed led the rally amid a downpour after General Musharraf categorically declared he would remain the army chief despite his pledge to abdicate the post by December 31 .
The opposition leader said if the general does not fulfill his promise , January 1 will be observed as a day of protest .
It was the fourth such rally in major Pakistani cities over the past month .
This modern , open , and private-enterprise-based economy has capitalized on its central geographic location , highly developed transport network , and diversified industrial and commercial base .
Industry is concentrated mainly in the more heavily-populated region of Flanders in the north .
With few natural resources , Belgium imports substantial quantities of raw materials and exports a large volume of manufactures , making its economy vulnerable to volatility in world markets , yet also able to benefit from them .
Roughly three-quarters of Belgium 's trade is with other EU countries , and Belgium has benefited most from its proximity to Germany .
In 2010 Belgian GDP grew by 2.1 % , the unemployment rate rose slightly , and the government reduced the budget deficit , which had worsened in 2008 and 2009 because of large-scale bail-outs in the financial sector .
Belgium 's budget deficit decreased from 6 % of GDP to 4.1 % in 2010 , while public debt was just under 100 % of GDP .
Belgian banks were severely affected by the international financial crisis with three major banks receiving capital injections from the government .
An ageing population and rising social expenditures are mid- to long-term challenges to public finances .
Because of its modest oil resources and favorable agricultural conditions , Cameroon has one of the best-endowed primary commodity economies in sub-Saharan Africa .
Still , it faces many of the serious problems confronting other underdeveloped countries , such as stagnant per capita income , a relatively inequitable distribution of income , a top-heavy civil service , endemic corruption , and a generally unfavorable climate for business enterprise .
Since 1990 , the government has embarked on various IMF and World Bank programs designed to spur business investment , increase efficiency in agriculture , improve trade , and recapitalize the nation 's banks .
The IMF is pressing for more reforms , including increased budget transparency , privatization , and poverty reduction programs .
Weak prices for oil led to the significant slowdown in growth in 2010 .
The government is under pressure to reduce its budget deficit , which by the government 's own forecast will hit 2.8 % of GDP , but the presidential election in 2011 may make fiscal austerity difficult .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his visiting Japanese counterpart , Junichiro Koizumi , have agreed on an eight-point agenda for closer ties between the two Asian countries .
They signed a joint statement in New Delhi that proposes a high-level strategic dialogue and suggests steps to boost sagging trade ties between the two nations .
It also urges an early expansion of the United Nations Security Council in which both countries aspire a permanent seat .
Relations between India and Japan have improved significantly since 2000 , after Tokyo began lifting economic sanctions imposed because of India 's nuclear tests .
But their bilateral trade has been limited to $ 4 billion for years .
On this trip , Mr. Koizumi told Indian business leaders he hopes the trend will change .
French police say vandals have desecrated nearly 150 Muslim grave sites at a World War I military cemetery in northern France .
Authorities say headstones were inscribed Saturday night with anti-Islamic slogans and graffiti deriding Justice Minister Rachida Dati , who is of North African origin .
A pig 's head was found hanging from one grave marker .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy called the vandalism a form of " unacceptable racism . "
He said he shares the pain of his country 's Muslim community - the largest in Europe .
The desecration came less than a year after youths painted Nazi inscriptions and swastikas on Muslim tombs in the same cemetery .
Police arrested two suspects in the 2007 vandalism .
Both were convicted and sentenced to one-year prison terms .
From 1914 to 1917 , France mobilized about 600,000 colonial subjects , including many Muslims from Algeria and Tunisia .
Seventy-eight thousand of those conscripts were killed .
Officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say at least 50 people died when the overloaded truck they were traveling in plunged into Africa 's deepest lake .
Local authorities say the truck , which was also transporting goods , fell into Lake Tanganyika late Wednesday .
The authorities believe at least six passengers survived the crash , but they have not confirmed the cause .
Last month , at least 230 people died in a fuel truck explosion - also in the east of the country .
Road accidents are common in Congo , where the infrastructure has been battered by years of war .
A new U.S. military report concludes that top Pentagon officials did not direct or encourage the abuse of prisoners in U.S. custody .
Government officials who have read the report say it blames the abuse on low-level leadership and confusion over interrogation rules that were changed multiple times .
Vice Admiral Albert Church conducted a review of U.S. prisoner interrogation techniques that led to the report .
He will present his findings at a hearing of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee Thursday .
The Washington Post newspaper says the report largely summarizes previous military probes , and sheds little new light on the ongoing prisoner abuse controversy .
Two civil rights groups recently sued Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , saying he approved a list of rough interrogation techniques and did nothing to stop the abuse of prisoners once he learned about it .
Guinea is a poor country that possesses major mineral , hydropower , and agricultural resources .
The country has almost half of the world 's bauxite reserves and significant iron ore , gold , and diamond reserves .
However , Guinea has been unable to profit from this potential , as rampant corruption , dilapidated electricity and other degraded infrastructure , and political uncertainty have drained investor confidence .
In the time since a 2008 coup following the death of long-term President Lansana CONTE , international donors , including the G-8 , the IMF , and the World Bank , have significantly curtailed their development programs .
Throughout 2009 , policies of the ruling military junta severely weakened the economy .
The junta leaders spent and printed money at an accelerated rate , driving inflation and debt to perilously high levels .
In early 2010 , the junta collapsed and was replaced by a Transition Government , which ceded power in December 2010 to the country 's first-ever democratically elected president , Alpha CONDE .
International assistance and investment are expected to return to Guinea , but the levels will depend upon the ability of the new government to combat corruption and reform its banking system .
IMF and World Bank programs will be especially critical as Guinea attempts to gain debt relief .
Since the 2009 global economic downturn , the price and value of bauxite and alumina exports has steadily risen .
Export levels will likely continue to grow as investor confidence returns .
International investors have expressed keen interest in Guinea 's vast iron ore reserves , which could further propel the country 's growth .
Philippine marines say they have seized thousands of blasting caps and a detonator from a ferry on the southern island of Jolo .
Authorities say 6,000 blasting caps were discovered Thursday on board the boat .
A passenger was also taken into custody after police found explosives in his bag .
The man had earlier refused to allow authorities to inspect his belongings .
Officials say passengers were ordered off the ferry immediately following the discovery .
The ferry was headed to Siasi island from Jolo , which is a stronghold of the militant group Abu Sayyaf .
The group has been blamed for a series of attacks in the southern Philippines .
Germany wants to set up a system for early warning of tsunamis .
A government spokesman told the German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that the system would in its beginning stage cost about $ 53 million , and can be built in one to three years .
The spokesman said the new project would add 30 to 40 seismological stations in the Indian Ocean to a global network of 50 already existing research bodies .
He also said the project initially would concentrate on Sri Lanka and Indonesia , two of the countries hardest hit by the devastating December 26 tsunami .
However , he added , with other donor nations , some 250 new stations may be included in the global system which will able to monitor also the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean .
The United Nations ' top aid official says Somalia 's government disagrees with the U.N. about the severity of the humanitarian crisis in the country .
John Holmes , the U.N. 's Undersecretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs , told the U.N. security council on Monday that Somalia 's leaders gave far lower estimates than the U.N. of the number of people who fled Mogadishu after April 's heavy fighting .
The U.N. says 400,000 people fled the capital , but Holmes says Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Ghedi told him not more than 40,000 were displaced by the fighting .
He says the Somali leaders said half of those have returned .
Holmes says most refugees have not returned and that many live in deplorable conditions in the countryside .
Witnesses in central Somalia say at least 17 people have died in fighting between two rival clans .
The clashes erupted Saturday in Somalia 's Mudug region , where the clans have been in conflict over land and water rights .
Locals say more than 20 people have been wounded in the fighting .
Clan elders are trying to mediate an end to the conflict .
Such clashes are not uncommon in Somalia , which has not had a stable central government in nearly two decades .
The office of U.S. Senator Tim Johnson says the South Dakota Democrat 's condition has been upgraded from critical to fair , after he was hospitalized for a brain hemorrhage four weeks ago .
Johnson 's office said Tuesday that the senator may begin rehabilitation this week and that his recovery is expected to take several months .
Johnson underwent emergency surgery in December for bleeding in his brain .
Democrats , along with two independent senators expected to vote with them , currently hold a 51-49 majority in the U.S. Senate .
If Johnson were unable to serve out his term , South Dakota 's governor could appoint a fellow Republican to the position .
This would result in a 50-50 split in the Senate , with Vice President Dick Cheney casting any tie-breaking votes , thereby tipping the balance of power over to Republicans .
Three former police officers are on trial in Ukraine on charges they were involved in the 2000 death of opposition journalist Georgy Gongadze .
The defendants , Valery Kostenko , Alexander Popovych and Mykola , appeared in a Kiev court Monday .
Another former officer is also being sought in the case .
They have been charged with the murder of 31-year-old Gongadze , who was abducted in Kiev and decapitated .
Former presidential bodyguard Mykola Melnychenko has accused former Ukrainian President Lenoid Kuchma of ordering Gongadze 's murder .
He released what he claimed were secret recordings of Kuchma .
In one of the them , a voice that sounds like Kuchma is heard conspiring with other senior government officials to get rid of Gongadze .
The governor of the U.S. state of Delaware has named a replacement for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Vice President-elect Joe Biden .
Governor Ruth Ann Minner on Monday named Edward Ted Kaufman , a former Biden aide , to fill the seat for the next two years .
After that , he is expected to retire , allowing Delaware voters to choose who will fill the seat for the four-year remainder of the Senate term .
Kaufman served as Biden 's chief of staff for 19 years and now runs a political and management consulting firm based in Wilmington , Delaware .
He had served on the Broadcasting Board of Governors , which oversees VOA , since 1995 .
He resigned that position Monday .
Afghan authorities say two separate roadside bombs in northeastern Paktika province bordering Pakistan have killed five Afghan policemen , two Polish soldiers and a child .
The authorities say the first bomb struck Tuesday morning near the city of Khost , killing five policemen and a child .
Officials blamed the attack on the Taliban .
Hours later , a second blast near a Polish base in Sharana killed two Polish troops and wounded another one .
Polish Defense Ministry says the troops were returning to the base after a humanitarian mission when one of the vehicle hit an improvised explosive device .
Poland has 1,200 soldiers in Afghanistan and plans to send 400 more later this year .
Taliban militants intensified their attacks on Afghan , NATO and U.S.-led security forces last year .
At least 6,000 people were killed in the violence last year , which was the deadliest since the Taliban were driven from power in 2001 .
Lebanon says clashes between Hezbollah guerrillas and Israeli forces have erupted anew on its tense southern border with Israel .
Hezbollah 's al-Manar television says guerrilla fighters engaged an Israeli army unit that crossed into Lebanon Wednesday .
Israel says its troops briefly entered Lebanese territory and exchanged fire with guerrillas while rescuing a civilian hang-glider who inadvertently landed inside Lebanon .
No casualties were reported .
The flare-up comes two days after what has been described as the heaviest clashes in the disputed area since Israel withdrew from south Lebanon five years ago .
Four guerrillas were killed and 11 Israeli soldiers were wounded on Monday .
Earlier Wednesday , Israeli aircraft entered Lebanese airspace to drop leaflets in south Lebanon and Beirut .
The leaflets , signed by " the state of Israel , " said Hezbollah is out to destroy Lebanon .
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso says the cost of combating global warming is far less than the cost of doing nothing .
Mr. Barroso spoke in Brussels Monday , where European Union diplomats are debating sharp cuts in greenhouse gas emissions , which many scientists believe are causing the Earth 's climate to get warmer .
Mr. Barroso said he understands the cost to economies of capping emissions , but , he adds , not tackling the problem will cost economies more in the future .
Mr. Barroso said that other countries , including the United States , are watching to see what Europe does on this issue .
European Union environmental ministers agreed in principle last month to cut carbon emissions from cars and factories by as much as 20 percent by 2020 .
EU leaders will vote on the plan at a summit later this week .
Some believe the plan is too expensive and are seeking a compromise
A group led by Iranian Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Shirin Ebadi has accused Iranian authorities of human rights abuses against labor activists , women , and students .
Ebadi heads the Defenders of Human Rights Center which says labor advocates have been summoned to court for their activities in recent months .
Last March teachers demanding pay raises staged three demonstrations outside parliament .
The report also criticizes the Iranian government for its increased pressure on women 's rights activists and on university students .
The report says the government has deprived students of an education .
The report is also critical of Iran 's government for ordering executions for crimes committed by people under the age of 18 .
Officials in Somalia say insurgents fired mortars at a plane carrying President Abdullahi Yusuf to neighboring Djibouti .
Hussein Mohamed , a presidential spokesman , says Mr. Yusuf was not harmed Sunday 's attack at Mogadishu airport .
The spokesman said five mortar shells landed in the airport .
The president is due to meet with a delegation of the U.N. Security Council in Djibouti as part of its week-long trip to promote peace in Africa .
Insurgents have waged a deadly 17-month battle against Somalia 's Ethiopian-backed interim government .
The U.S. space agency has launched a probe Sunday to monitor the violence and turbulence at the very edge of the solar system .
NASA says its Interstellar Boundary Explorer , known as IBEX will orbit high above the Earth to take pictures of what scientists call the interstellar boundary .
The boundary is an area billions of kilometers away where hot solar winds crash into the cold gases of outer space .
Scientists call the boundary regions vital to safe human space flight , saying they shield the Earth 's orbit from dangerous cosmic rays .
NASA says the IBEX images will allow scientists to understand the interaction between the sun and the galaxy for the first time .
A Ukrainian government committee has approved the creation of a new joint venture to deliver Russian and Central Asian natural gas to Ukraine .
The approval paves the way for the signing of a gas supply deal with Russia , which ended a bitter price dispute between Moscow and Kiev earlier this year .
Under the deal , the new venture called UkrGazEnergo will oversee gas sales to Ukrainian consumers .
It will be co-owned by Naftogaz Ukraine and RosUkrEnergo , which is co-owned by Russian gas giant Gazprom and a group of unidentified investors .
A draft agreement , reached January fourth , calls for Ukraine to pay Russia $ 95 per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas - nearly twice as much as the previous rate .
The agreement triggered a political crisis in Ukraine and parliament voted to dismiss the government .
The opposition challenged the deal as a betrayal of national interests .
Hosni Mubarak assumed Egypt 's presidency in 1981 , succeeding President Anwar Sadat , following his assassination by Islamic radicals .
Mr. Mubarak , sometimes referred to as " the boss " or " the last Pharaoh " has ruled virtually unchallenged for 24 years , being returned to office every six years in referendums in which he was the only candidate .
In February , he ordered parliament to amend the constitution to allow the country 's first multi-candidate presidential election .
Critics accuse the 77-year-old leader of the ruling National Democratic Party of responsibility for high unemployment , and the absence of political and economic reforms .
But supporters say he has guided Egypt through more than two decades free of war in a turbulent region .
Before entering politics , Mr. Mubarak rose through the ranks of the Air Force until he took command of the service in 1972 .
He later served as Egypt 's Vice-President before assuming the presidency .
Iraq 's National Assembly is set to hold its first meeting ten days from now , whether a new government is named or not .
The country 's three main political parties have failed to form a ruling coalition in the five weeks since elections were held .
Some Iraqis have expressed frustration that the new National Assembly has not yet taken on the governance of the country .
An Iraqi official says the assembly will convene with or without an agreement on who will be the country 's prime minister .
The March 16 date for the session marks the anniversary of a chemical weapon attack by former president Saddam Hussein 's forces on the Kurdish town of Halabja .
An estimated five thousand people died in the 1988 attack .
Police in Kyrgyzstan say unknown gunmen have shot dead a leading parliamentarian in the capital , Bishkek .
Authorities named the victim as Zhirgalbek Surabaldiyev , but gave no other details .
The motive for the shooting and the identity of the attackers were not immediately clear .
Kyrgyzstan has been wracked by political turmoil for months following a disputed parliamentary poll in February and March that sparked protests and led to the ousting of President Askar Akayev .
The port of New Orleans , Louisiana is resuming normal operations less than five days after the US Gulf Coast was hit by Hurricane Gustav .
The storm did far less damage than Hurricane Katrina three years ago .
VOA 's Barry Wood in New Orleans sent this report .
Armed youths have set fire to two buses outside Paris , a day before the first anniversary of suburban riots in France .
Ten masked attackers invaded a bus in the eastern Paris suburb of Montreuil early this Thursday morning and forced the driver and passengers to get off .
They then drove off and set the bus on fire .
A similar incident happened earlier in the western suburb of Nanterre , where hooded youths set fire to a bus close to business area of La Defense .
For three weeks last year , youths from mainly immigrant backgrounds burned cars and trashed shops in a protest blamed on poverty and discrimination .
New Kids On The Block is a pop vocal group .
Beginning in the 1980s , they released several albums , two of which reached number one on the Billboard chart .
Now , after 14 years , all of the original members have reunited .
Joey McIntyre , who joined the band just before his 13th birthday , visited with VOA 's Larry London during a recent trip to Washington .
Turkish authorities say 32 people , most of them children , were killed Saturday when a bus full of primary school students collided with a truck .
The state-run Anatolia news agency quoted local authorities as saying 30 people were injured .
Anatolia said the crash took place in central Turkey as the bus was carrying children from the western city of Izmir to the tourist region of Cappadocia , known for its unusual rock formations .
The cause of the accident was not known .
Anatolia reported that one of the two drivers said he was sleeping when the crash took place .
Iran 's nuclear chief says his country has agreed in principle with Russia on a joint uranium enrichment deal to ease the international standoff over Iran 's nuclear program .
But it remains unclear whether Iran would suspend its own enrichment program as demanded by the international community .
Iran 's Gholamreza Aghazadeh and Russian atomic energy head Sergei Kiriyenko discussed the deal in Iran and say more talks will be held in the coming days .
The plan has the backing of the United States and European Union .
Russia and Iran are trying to finalize the deal before the March 6 meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency , which could call for the U.N. Security Council to take action against Iran .
The United States and European countries say Iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons - a charge Iran denies .
South Africa 's former deputy president , Jacob Zuma , has testified at his rape trial that he does not have HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Zuma 's statement came during cross-examiniation Tuesday as he spent his second day on the witness stand in a Johannesburg court .
Zuma 's accuser , a 31-year-old family friend , is HIV-positive and an AIDS activist .
Zuma said he had unprotected sex with the woman because , in his words , he knew the risk of getting infected was minimal .
He also said that on the night in question , the woman encouraged him to have intercourse .
The 63-year-old politician has said he believes the rape charges are part of a plot to derail his political career .
Zuma was once seen as the leading candidate to succeed President Thabo Mbeki , until he was fired last year amid allegations of corruption .
Iraqi hospital officials say gunmen have killed at least 50 people and wounded scores of others at an open air market south of Baghdad .
Authorities say a large group of attackers first fired mortars and then stormed the market in Mahmoudiya , firing automatic weapons and throwing grenades .
Police said at least two suspected attackers were arrested .
In Baghdad , Shi'ite lawmakers close to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr quit today 's parliamentary session to protest the attack .
Meanwhile , U.S. military officials say one American soldier was killed by small arms fire in the Iraqi capital .
On Sunday , a suicide bomber killed at least 26 people in a crowded cafe in the town of Tuz Khurmatu north of Baghdad .
The group of creditor nations known as the Paris Club has agreed to a comprehensive debt relief plan with Nigeria .
Their accord allows Nigeria to write off roughly 60 percent of its estimated $ 30 billion debt to the Paris Club .
That 19-member grouping said Thursday it welcomed an ambitious economic program implemented in 2003 by the Nigerian government , as well as Nigeria 's desire to leave the creditor organization .
The relief plan follows the International Monetary Fund 's approval earlier this week of a Nigerian economic management program .
In June , the Paris Club said debt relief talks with Nigeria could begin only after the country concluded its debt negotiations with the IMF .
According to a government report , U.S. employers added 167,000 workers to payrolls and increased hourly wages in December .
The report issued Friday by the U.S. Labor Department showed that service-producing industries did the most hiring , contributing 178,000 new jobs in December , while retailers and manufacturers mostly shed jobs .
According to the report , the unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.5 percent .
The report showed hourly earnings also rose 0.5 percent , the biggest increase since April .
Analysts say growth in the job market indicates a growing economy , but that higher wages increase the risk of inflation .
At least 18 jailed Cuban dissidents have been transferred to a prison hospital in Havana amid speculation they may be released .
Relatives say activist physician Oscar Elias Biscet and opposition politician Hector Palacios were among those transferred .
The move comes after authorities this week released five of 75 pro-democracy activists jailed last year in a crackdown on dissidents .
Each of the five had been transferred to the same prison hospital for checkups before their health-related releases .
Among those freed were well-known dissident writer and poet Raul Rivero , opposition politician Osvaldo Alfonso Valdes and economist and journalist Oscar Espinoso Chepe .
They were sentenced last year to lengthy jail terms on charges they conspired with the United States to overthrow President Fidel Castro .
Analysts say Cuba released the dissidents , rather than having them possibly die in prison .
A top Ukrainian official says President Viktor Yushchenko has signed a plan for withdrawing the country 's troops from Iraq .
The head of Ukraine 's National Security and Defense Council , Petro Poroshenko , says the order details the phased pull-out , which began last week with the return of 137 soldiers .
He told reporters Tuesday the withdrawal will be complete by the end of the year , but the exact date will be determined after President Yushchenko consults with Ukraine 's partners in the coalition in Iraq .
The Ukrainian leader meets President Bush next month at the White House .
The withdrawal of Ukraine 's more than 1,600 troops from Iraq was one of Mr. Yushchenko 's principal campaign pledges during last year 's presidential elections .
Eighteen Ukrainian troops have been killed in Iraq during the deployment .
Many Ukrainians have opposed the mission .
Mexican officials say unknown assailants have shot and killed the newly-appointed police chief of a town near the Mexico-U.S. border .
Witnesses say Alejandro Dominguez was shot at least 30 times in his car late Wednesday .
They say gunmen fired at him as they drove by in multiple vehicles .
The killing came just hours after Mr. Dominguez assumed his new position as police chief of Nuevo Laredo .
He is at least the third police chief killed in the city in recent weeks .
Law enforcement officials on both sides of the border have identified Nuevo Laredo as a center for drug trafficing and criminal organizations .
Italian police say a prime suspect in last month 's failed bombings in London was probably part of an amateur , improvised group , rather than a large terrorist network .
Police identified the suspect as Ethiopian-born Hamdi Isaac , saying he changed his name to Osman Hussain and falsely claimed Somali citizenship to gain asylum in Britain in the 1990s .
The suspect , arrested Friday in Rome , is one of four men believed to have carried out the attempted attacks on London 's transit system on July 21 .
Britain is requesting his extradition .
The three other suspects were arrested last week in Britain .
The failed attacks came two weeks after four bombers killed themselves and 52 others on the London transit system .
British police are searching for anyone connected to either set of attacks .
At least 18 people have been detained for questioning .
The U.S. Senate has passed a major bill to provide government support for financially troubled homeowners and two of the country 's largest mortgage lenders .
Senators voted 76-13 in favor of the measure Saturday during a rare Saturday session .
The House of Representatives passed the bill Wednesday .
President Bush says he will sign it into law when it reaches his desk .
The legislation establishes a $ 300 billion fund to provide more affordable loans to homeowners who are struggling to pay their mortgages .
It also will allow the Treasury Department to expand government support for two of the nation 's biggest lenders , Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac .
The two government-sponsored companies have lost billions of dollars due to a wave of mortgage defaults .
When people think of the capital of the United States , Washington , D.C. - they usually think of monuments , museums and the White House .
But for some , a small family restaurant comes to mind .
Ben 's Chili Bowl has been open for 50 years and is one of the city 's most enduring landmarks .
VOA 's Ana Ward recently spent an afternoon at the renowned restaurant .
VOA 's Sean Maroney narrates .
Officials in southern India say the death toll from five days of torrential rains and flash floods has risen to at least 200 .
The officials say at least 167 of the dead were in the state of Karnataka and the rest in neighboring Andhra Pradesh , where army troops and air force helicopters were rescuing stranded families and delivering emergency supplies .
Local authorities warned that the death toll is likely to rise , as many people in flood-hit areas are missing and many flooded areas remain inaccessible .
Hundreds of thousands of people have already been evacuated .
Officials say the rains destroyed thousands of homes , submerged whole villages , destroyed crops , and disrupted transport and communication links .
Weather experts say the intense rains stem from a storm in the Bay of Bengal .
The U.S. government has moved to financially isolate a man who allegedly worked with Osama bin Laden and other terror leaders to finance jihadist groups in Albania .
Monday 's order from the Treasury Department prohibits Americans from doing business with Abdul Latif Saleh , 48 .
It also freezes any assets Mr. Saleh may have within U.S. jurisdiction .
The Treasury says Mr. Saleh received $ 600,000 dollars from Osama bin Laden to " encourage the establishment " of Albanian extremist groups .
It says Mr. Saleh founded and organized an organization that seeks to destabilize Albania by fomenting conflict among the country 's religious groups .
The Treasury says Mr. Saleh , who has both Jordanian and Albanian citizenship , was expelled from Albania .
It says his last known residence was in the United Arab Emirates .
Somali gunmen hijacked a freight ship off the eastern coast of Somalia on Monday .
The Kenya-based MV Torgelow was on its way to Somalia 's port of El-Maan to bring fuel and supplies to another ship , the MV Semlow , that was recently freed by hijackers .
Both ships are owned by the same company .
The MV Torgelow was expected to arrive in El-Maan on Monday .
The ships owner , Inayet Kudrati , said he lost contact with the vessel and its 10-man crew on Saturday .
In June , the MV Semlow and its 10-member crew were hijacked as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia .
The United Nations World Food Program had hired the Kenyan vessel to carry 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
Reports from Nepal say police in the capital , Kathmandu , have arrested about 300 people during continuing protests against King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power .
The reports say police used batons Tuesday to disperse some 6,000 activists shouting anti-government slogans and throwing stones and bricks at police .
Witnesses say dozens of people were injured in the skirmishes .
The rally , organized by a seven-party opposition alliance , moved into the city center despite a government ban on gatherings there .
Protesters demanding the restoration of democracy in the world 's only Hindu kingdom have held daily rallies since last week .
The king dismissed the elected government on February 1 , saying it failed to quell a decade-long Maoist insurgency that has claimed almost 12,000 lives .
The International Football Federation FIFA has asked Mexico to explain why it suspended two players from the Confederations Cup tournament earlier this week .
FIFA spokesman Markus Siegler said a report is expected soon on why defenders Salvador Carmona and Aaron Galindo were suspended .
Mexican news reports said the two were suspended because of positive dope tests .
However , Mexico 's coach Ricardo Lavolpe has vehemently denied those reports , insisting the players were suspended for breaching the team 's code of conduct .
The FIFA Spokesman also discounted the reports by saying that there had been no positive dope tests during the Confederations Cup .
Mexico has a semifinal match against Argentina Sunday .
U.S. central bank policymakers say they will start rolling back a government program to stabilize the economy , noting that the recession is easing .
The Federal Reserve announced Wednesday it will slow plans to buy $ 300 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds .
The program was aimed at lowering consumer interest rates .
The bank also said it will keep a key short-term interest rate near zero for an extended period of time to encourage lending by banks .
The U.S. Treasury Department said Wednesday that the federal deficit has risen to $ 1.27 trillion .
The Obama administration has predicted that when the fiscal year ends September 30 , the imbalance will total $ 1.84 trillion .
Government spending to address the recession and stabilize the U.S. financial system have pushed the deficit higher .
The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have also been major factors in the government spending more money than it is taking in .
Afghan and international forces say they have killed 20 suspected militants during operations in southern Afghanistan .
Other suspected militants have been detained .
NATO says one suspect was detained Monday in a compound in Kandahar province that was used by the Taliban to supply explosives , weapons and ammunition to other militants in the area .
An Afghan border police commander says more than a dozen militants were killed and several detained Sunday in Kandahar 's Shorabak district .
Also Sunday , NATO says soldiers in Helmand province detained a suspected militant commander , Haji Khan Mohammed , accused of running drug operations that provide financial support to insurgents throughout southern Afghanistan .
In Zabul province Sunday , Afghan and international forces reported killing several suspected militants in an exchange of gunfire .
No security force members were reported killed .
Baghdad police say a suicide car bomber has killed a prominent Shi'ite member of Iraq 's parliament , along with his son and three bodyguards .
The bomber rammed his explosives-filled vehicle into a convoy carrying Dhari al-Fayadh a member of the ruling Shi'ite-dominated alliance and the oldest member of Iraq 's parliament .
Elsewhere , a car bomb attack near a U.S. military base near Balad killed one U.S. soldier .
And in the northern city of Kirkuk , a car bomb attack near a police convoy killed two people .
Al-Qaida in Iraq later claimed responsibility in a statement that could not be verified .
More than 1,000 U.S. troops and Iraqi soldiers have started a new offensive against insurgents along the Euphrates river valley in western Iraq .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have carried out several recent offensives in the region to try to weaken the ongoing insurgency .
Brazilian bobsledder Armando dos Santos has become the first athlete to test positive for a banned performance enhancing drug at the Winter Olympics in Turin , Italy .
Dos Santos , a former hammer thrower , tested positive for the banned steroid nandrolone and has been sent home .
The result came from a pre-games doping test conducted by the Brazilian Olympic Committee in January .
Further tests confirmed the result this week .
Dos Santos will be replaced on the four-man team by novice Claudinei Quirino , a former track star and silver medalist in the 400-meter relay at the Sydney Olympics six years ago .
Brazil is the only tropical bobsled team that qualified for Turin .
Training for the four-man event starts next week with competition opening on February 24 .
The Kremlin says U.S. President Barack Obama and his Russian counterpart Dmitri Medvedev are close to reaching an agreement on a new nuclear disarmament treaty .
Russian officials say the two leaders spoke by phone on Saturday and said it was possible to talk about a firm date for signing at treaty to reduce their arsenals of nuclear weapons .
Russia and the United States have been negotiating a replacement to the 1991 Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty , which expired in December .
The talks had been hung up on how to verify the arms cuts and U.S. plans for a missile defense system in Europe .
Russia opposes the missile plan .
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging from a trellised vine .
She resorted to all her tricks to get at them , but wearied herself in vain , for she could not reach them .
At last she turned away , hiding her disappointment and saying :
" The Grapes are sour , and not ripe as I thought . "
Lebanon 's government has endorsed Hezbollah 's right to keep its weapons for defense against Israel .
Lebanon 's government has endorsed Hezbollah 's right to keep its weapons for defense against Israel .
The decision is written into a policy statement released Wednesday by the new government of Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri .
Hezbollah 's leader , Hassan Nasrallah , recently reaffirmed the group 's intention to continue building its weapons arsenal to defend the country against Israel .
Hezbollah fought a month-long war with Israel in 2006 .
The fighting ended with a United Nations-brokered cease-fire .
The Shi'ite group is supported by Iran and Syria , and is considered a terrorist organization by the United States and several other countries .
Its members have been assigned to key posts in the new Lebanese Cabinet , including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs .
Afghan police have foiled a suspected car bomb attack in the western city of Herat , while in the capital , Kabul , a small car bomb exploded but caused no injuries .
Police in Herat say they found rockets , mortar rounds and land mines in a Toyota late Sunday .
Officials say they suspect the explosives were to be used in a car bombing .
It is unclear who was planning the alleged attack .
The discovery came around the same time a bomb exploded in Kabul , leaving no casualties .
Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime has been blamed for much of the ongoing violence in Kabul .
Meanwhile , the French News Agency says the Taleban has claimed responsibility for a roadside explosion in the southern city of Kandahar that killed one Romanian soldier and wounded another .
The State Department says the human rights records of several Middle Eastern countries are problematic .
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy , Human Rights and Labor Barry Lowenkron says Syria and Iran are of particular concern .
He spoke to reporters Wednesday at the release of the State Department 's annual report on human rights .
Mr. Lowenkron says the United States is in talks with Saudi Arabia on wide-ranging issues , including improving the kingdom 's human rights situation .
He added that elections in the Palestinian territories were a major advancement .
He says Hamas must now choose between terrorism and politics .
The report also says there were serious abuses by members of Israeli security forces against Palestinian detainees .
The head of the U.N. nuclear agency says the international community is losing patience with Iran over its nuclear activities .
Speaking in Oslo Friday , Mohamed ElBaradei encouraged European negotiators to continue talking with Iran .
Those talks broke down in August , when Iran resumed uranium conversion , the precursor to enrichment .
Without elaborating , he said outstanding nuclear issues with Iran should be clarified next year .
Mr. ElBaradei is in the Norwegian capital to receive the Nobel Peace Prize on Saturday .
He shares the award with the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) .
The Nobel committee said the prize was awarded in recognition of Mr. ElBaradei and the agency 's efforts to use nuclear energy in safe , peaceful ways and prevent it from being used for military purposes .
The U.S. government has unveiled new rules requiring all travelers to and from the Western Hemisphere to show passports to enter the United States .
The rules will apply to Americans as well as Canadians , Mexicans and citizens of Bermuda who are currently exempt from passport requirements .
The Homeland Security Department says some alternate documents will likely be accepted , such as the official border-crossing card used by some Mexicans .
U.S. officials say the regulations are meant to strengthen border security in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
Under a proposed timeline , the rules will be phased in gradually over the next 33 months .
A State Department official acknowledged the rules may cause delays for people and goods trying to cross the border .
President Bush heads to New York today to attend the United Nations General Assembly where he will focus on helping to strengthen emerging democracies in the Middle East .
Aides say Mr. Bush 's address to the assembly on Tuesday will focus on the need to advance democracy in the Middle East and strengthen existing democracies in Iraq , Lebanon and the Palestinian Authority .
In keeping with his theme of supporting democracies , President Bush will meet Monday with the leaders from Malaysia , El Salvador , Honduras and Tanzania .
Later in the week he is to meet with the Palestinian and Iraqi presidents and discuss Iran 's nuclear program with the president of France .
French President Jacques Chirac is the only other leader from the U.N. Security Council 's five permanent members attending this year 's assembly .
The two-week annual U.N. General Assembly brings together leaders and senior representatives from all of the organization 's 192 members .
The prices of many natural resources and agricultural products are rising worldwide .
Economists cite the weak U.S. dollar , inflationary pressure , and surging demand from countries such as China - to explain the spike in commodity prices .
Meanwhile , businesses involved in trading commodities are profiting from the increase in their value .
Steve Mort reports for VOA .
Former Israeli Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is urging parliament to scrap next week 's evacuation of the Gaza Strip , saying the territory will become a Palestinian terrorist base after the pullout is completed .
Speaking Wednesday , Mr. Netanyahu told lawmakers they remained the only ones capable of stopping the withdrawal , which he referred to as " this evil . "
Sunday , Mr. Netanyahu quit the government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , to protest the disengagement .
He joined the fragile ruling coalition late last year as a tentative backer of the plan .
Wednesday 's address coincided with new polls showing Mr. Netanyahu would win a contest with Mr. Sharon to head the right-wing Likud party , if polls were held today .
For his part , Mr. Sharon noted his rival 's shift to oppose the withdrawal he once supported , and called the resignation an " evasion " of responsibility .
George W. Bush
President George Bush used his Saturday weekly radio address to focus on the sacrifices made by members of America 's armed services .
President Bush noted that this year is the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II , a conflict that claimed more than 400,000 American lives .
Mr. Bush said a new generation is now making its own sacrifice on behalf of peace and freedom .
He mentioned by name two American soldiers killed in Iraq who had written to their loved ones that they were committed to their mission .
This is Memorial Day weekend in the United States , a day of remembrance for those who have died in service to the nation .
The holiday will be observed on Monday .
A STATESMAN heard some Labourers singing at their work , and wishing to be happy too , asked them what made them so .
" Honesty , " replied the Labourers .
So the Statesman resolved that he too would be honest , and the result was that he died of want .
A U.S. congressman from Pennsylvania who was injured during a visit to Iraq says U.S. soldiers oppose a swift withdrawal from the country .
Republican Representative Tim Murphy says every soldier he met told him a prompt pullout would mean those wounded or killed in the fight would have done so in vain .
He and two Democratic congressmen - Ike Skelton of Missouri and Jim Marshall of Georgia - were on their way to the Baghdad airport Saturday when their van swerved to avoid an oncoming vehicle .
After the van overturned , Mr. Murphy ended up with a cut over one eye and soreness in his neck , arms and back .
Mr. Skelton is still undergoing treatment in Landstuhl , Germany , and is expected to return home this week .
Military sources in Ivory Coast say unidentified gunmen have attacked two camps at a major military base near Abidjan .
Authorities say the two camps located at Akuedo near the country 's economic capital were fired upon by heavy weapons at about six a.m. local time ( 0600 UTC ) .
Sources say they heard loud gunfire and explosions in the vicinity of the base .
The West African nation has been plagued by an insurgency since 2002 that has left the country divided between rebels in the north and the government in the south .
Charles Konan Banny was installed as Ivory Coast 's transitional prime minister last month as part of a United Nations resolution that gives him authority to carry out rebel disarmament and electoral reforms , in hopes of holding new elections by October .
The U.S. military says five American troops have been killed in Iraq in recent days , raising the death toll among U.S. forces to its highest monthly level in a year .
At least 96 U.S. troops have died this month , equaling the level from last October .
Meanwhile , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says Iraqi leaders have not agreed to develop a comprehensive plan by the end of the year for progress in the country .
Rumsfeld told reporters at the Pentagon Thursday that critics should - " just back off " on demands for deadlines in Iraq .
On Tuesday , the U.S. ambassador to Iraq , Zalmay Khalilzad , said Iraqi leaders agreed to a timeline aimed at curbing violence in the country .
But Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki rejected Khalilzad 's announcement and said his government has not agreed to anything .
A Republican U.S. senator has urged his colleagues to reject President Bush 's nominee for ambassador to the United Nations , John Bolton .
The appeal from Senator George Voinovich of Ohio comes as the Senate prepares to begin floor debate on Mr. Bolton 's nomination , possibly Wednesday .
The majority Republicans predict the Senate will confirm Mr. Bolton , who is currently undersecretary of state for arms control .
But in a letter sent to all 99 Senate colleagues , Senator Voinovich said naming Mr. Bolton ambassador could jepoardize the nation 's ability to win the war on terror and advance U.N. reform .
Democrats who also oppose the nominee have criticized him as being too blunt and inflexible for the U.N. job .
Mr. Bolton retains strong backing from the White House , which says he has the ability and experience to get things done at the United Nations .
Police in southern Afghanistan say a roadside bomb has killed an Afghan district chief and police chief .
Kandahar province 's police chief Matiullah Khan , Tuesday said the Registan district officials were traveling together in the province when they were struck by the bomb Monday .
Four of their guards were wounded .
Separately , the International Committee of the Red Cross says five detainees at a U.S. military prison met with their relatives Tuesday , in the first face-to-face visits at the Bagram base near Kabul .
The Red Cross and U.S. military officials say families were given hour-long meetings with prisoners , and such visits were expected to be repeated regularly .
In January , the Red Cross began helping families speak with detainees at Bagram through a video-conference system .
In another development , the U.N. Security Council agreed Monday to extend the mandate of NATO-led forces in Afghanistan by one year .
Human Rights Watch says armed groups in northeastern Democratic Republic of Congo have committed massive rights abuses against civilians in their pursuit of gold .
In a new report issued Wednesday , it says militia groups use the profits from gold to buy weapons and to fund their activities .
According to the report , violence between armed groups for control of the northeastern gold mining town of Mongbwalu left at least 2,000 civilians dead between 2002 and 2004 .
Human Rights Watch also accuses an international mining company , AngloGold Ashanti , of providing financial and logistical support to one armed group in the region .
The report says the company admitted paying the group , but said only one payment was made under what it called " protest and duress . "
The main Pakistan-based Kashmiri separatist alliance has announced a temporary suspension of all violence in earthquake-devastated areas of Indian Kashmir .
The Jihad Council faxed a statement to a local news agency Sunday saying it had put on hold all militant operations in the affected areas .
The statement said Syed Salahuddin , the chief commander of the Kashmiri rebel group Hizbul Mujahedin has directed its cadres to suspend all rebel violence until further notice .
However , Indian police report more violence in Indian Kashmir .
Police say suspected Islamic militants killed at least 10 people late Sunday and early Monday , most of them Hindus .
None of the rebel groups operating in Kashmir claimed responsibility for the attacks .
The White House says Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will address reports of secret U.S. prisons during her trip to Europe this week .
In an interview on American television FOX News Sunday , National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley denied that terrorist suspects are sent abroad to be tortured .
He said detainee treatment complies with U.S. law and treaty obligations .
Mr. Hadley said Ms. Rice will address the prison allegations and others in what he called a " comprehensive way " when she visits several European nations ( Germany , Romania , Ukraine , Belgium ) starting Monday .
He said the secretary will argue that terrorism threatens everyone and nations need to " cooperate in its solution . "
The national security advisor refused to confirm or deny news reports that the Central Intelligence Agency operates several secret prisons in European countries , or that terror suspects have been secretly transported through European airspace .
The chief of Palestinian security has resigned , six weeks after the Islamic militant group Hamas overtook his forces in the Gaza Strip .
The Fatah faction 's national security adviser , Mohammed Dahlan , submitted his resignation to President Mahmoud Abbas Thursday .
Palestinian authorities say Mr. Abbas , leader of the Fatah movement , accepted the request .
Dahlan cited health reasons for his decision .
But officials say a government committee pushed for Dahlan 's dismissal after finding him responsible for Fatah 's fall to Hamas in Gaza .
Dahlan had been widely criticized for the defeat .
Hamas seized control of Gaza in mid-June after six days of clashes .
More than 100 people died in the fighting .
Afterwards , Mr. Abbas dissolved the Hamas-led unity government and created an emergency cabinet based in the West Bank .
The Palestinian president restructured the cabinet in mid-July after a month-long state of emergency .
A Russian Soyuz spacecraft carrying two crew members and an American space tourist has returned to earth safely in Kazakhstan .
The capsule returned with American astronaut Mikhail Tyurin , Russian cosmonaut Michael Lopez-Alegria and Hungarian-born software engineer Charles Simonyi aboard .
It touched down Saturday after a three-hour return trip from the international space station .
The spacecraft 's homecoming was delayed by one day because of flooding in the original landing site .
Lopez-Alegria and Tyurin returned after spending seven months aboard the space station .
Simonyi spent two weeks there participating in experiments .
Two Russians who traveled to the space station with Simonyi earlier this month will remain , along with an American crew member , Sunita Williams .
The ride up and back cost the 58-year-old Simonyi $ 25 million .
Authorities in Burma say imported brands of milk and powdered baby formula have been contaminated with an industrial chemical involved in the latest Chinese product safety scandal .
The state-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar says nine of 16 products tested positive for melamine .
The Health Ministry has destroyed the tainted products , and has withdrawn the other products from the marketplace .
It has also temporarily suspended imports of other milk products .
More than 50,000 Chinese children were sickened , four of them fatally , after consuming milk powder contaminated with melamine .
More than 10,000 children in China remain hospitalized .
Melamine is primarily used in plastics , fertilizers and flame retardants .
Authorities suspect it was added to milk to make it appear richer in protein .
The scandal has led to the arrests of 27 people in China , and the recall or prohibition of Chinese-made milk products by more than 50 nations .
Tens of thousands of Chinese are rushing to get married Friday , as China marks the official start of the Olympic Games .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says over 16,000 couples in the capital , Beijing , have applied to get married Friday .
An official in one Beijing district Chongwen tells VOA that while his office usually registers 20 to 30 marriages a day , it is expected to handle more than 600 Friday .
Xinhua says other cities across China have also seen a surge in marriages Friday , an auspicious day for Chinese .
The Opening Ceremony for the Games falls on the eighth day of the eighth month of 2008 .
The number eight is a lucky number in China because it sounds like the word for " prosperity " or " wealth " in Chinese .
Crude oil prices hit their highest level in three months Tuesday in New York .
Crude oil for future delivery rose as high as $ 65.53 a barrel .
Traders said they are worried that tensions in Iran and Nigeria could crimp already-tight oil supplies , while experts predict oil demand will continue to grow .
Iran and Nigeria produce about 7.5 percent of the world 's oil .
Iran is in a dispute over its alleged efforts to build nuclear weapons , and experts say it might respond to possible sanctions by stopping delivery of the more than two million barrels of oil it exports daily .
Nigeria 's output is hampered by the kidnapping of oil workers .
Meantime , experts predict demand for oil will grow more than two percent this year to more than 85 million barrels a day .
Morocco has scored a 1-0 victory to dampen a World Cup warmup for the U.S. men 's national football ( soccer ) team in Nashville , Tennessee .
Subsitute Mohamed Madihi scored in the 90th minute Tuesday .
The U.S. defense got caught in the Moroccan end of the field , leaving Madihi wide open for an easy goal .
Worse than the loss for the Americans was an injury to captain Claudio Reyna .
He hobbled off the field with a strained right hamstring .
The extent of his injury was not immediately known .
Morocco , one of Africa 's stronger teams , did not qualify for the 32-nation World Cup field .
The fifth-ranked United States faces Venezuela on Friday and Latvia on Sunday , two more teams that did not qualify for the World Cup .
Pakistani officials say intelligence agents have arrested a suspected Taleban fighter wanted by the Afghan government in the killing of a prominent pro-U.S. Afghan leader .
They say the Afghan national , Sirajul Haq , was picked up in the raid late Sunday in Karachi 's eastern Malir neighborhood .
Sirajul Haq was wanted in the slaying of 43-year old Abdul Haq , a pro-U.S. Afghan leader who was captured and killed by the Taleban in eastern Afghanistan in October 2001 .
The Taleban captured Abdul Haq when he slipped into his homeland from neighboring Pakistan on a secret mission to try to incite a rebellion against the militia , when then controlled Afghanistan .
Britain 's Prince Charles and his wife , Camilla , are set to visit the hurricane-ravaged city of New Orleans as they continue their tour of the United States .
The royal couple will lay a wreath at the World War II Memorial in Washington early Friday and visit the Folger Shakespeare Library before boarding a plane for the U.S. southwestern state of Louisiana .
In New Orleans , Prince Charles and Camilla are expected to see damage caused by Hurricane Katrina first-hand and meet residents and recovery workers .
On Thursday , the royal couple visited the National Institutes of Health for a seminar on osteoporosis in Washington .
Camilla , the Duchess of Cornwall , is president of Britain 's National Osteoporosis Society .
Prince Charles also accepted an award at the National Building Museum for his contribution to architectural understanding .
A previously unknown Palestinian group has claimed responsibility for the abduction of an Egyptian diplomat in the Gaza Strip Thursday .
News agencies say they received a statement Friday from a group calling itself the Al Ahrar Brigades .
The group demanded the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Egypt within 48 hours .
The authenticity of the statement could not be verified .
Palestinian officials say diplomat Hussam al-Musli was going to the Egyptian diplomatic offices in Gaza City Thursday when masked gunmen surrounded his car and abducted him .
The Gaza Strip has seen a rash of kidnappings by Palestinian gunmen since Israel 's pullout in September .
Russia 's giant Yukos oil company has filed for bankruptcy in the United States , and has appealed for a restraining order to stop Russian authorities from selling the company 's production unit at an auction Sunday .
An Internet statement posted on the Yukos web site says the company filed for bankruptcy Tuesday in Houston , Texas .
Yukos says the impending auction of its main oil producing subsidiary Yuganskeneftegaz will cause immediate and irreparable harm .
Russian officials have said they want to recover at Sunday 's auction billions of dollars they say Yukos owes in back taxes .
China 's President Hu Jintao is in Kenya , the final stop of his three-nation trip to Africa .
Mr. Hu is expected to sign offshore oil and gas exploration agreements in Nairobi Friday .
Thursday , Mr. Hu wrapped up a two-day visit to Nigeria with an address to Parliament in which he urged a strategic partnership between China and Africa .
During his visit , Nigeria agreed to award China four oil drilling licenses in exchange for a promised $ 4-billion investment in Nigeria 's infrastructure .
Earlier this week , Mr. Hu was in Morocco , where he signed agreements on trade , science , culture and health care .
A popular Indian style rural opera called Nautanki was recently staged at a theater in California 's high-tech Silicon Valley .
It was the retelling of a decades old popular Indian opera Sultana Daku .
VOA 's Savita Patel was on hand for one of the performances .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Osama bin Laden 's deputy has called for attacks on oil installations in Muslim nations , saying most of the oil revenues go to " the enemies of Islam . "
Ayman al-Zawahiri made the call in a video posted on the Internet Wednesday .
Arabic broadcaster al-Jazeera said the footage is the full version of a video by the al-Qaida deputy that was issued in September .
Only excerpts of the tape were aired at the time .
Initial news reports had described Tuesday 's posting as a new tape , but al-Jazeera acknowledged there had been a misunderstanding .
In the tape , Ayman al-Zawahiri said the situation in Iraq is " a catastrophe " for America and predicted that it is only a matter of time before U.S. troops pull out of the country .
Pope Benedict XVI has named 15 new cardinals to help run the Roman Catholic Church , marking his first appointments to the church elite since he became pontiff last year .
Benedict read out the names Wednesday during his weekly audience at the Vatican .
The new cardinals include Hong Kong Bishop Joseph Zen .
The bishop said he believes his elevation is a sign of Benedict 's concern for China .
Another new cardinal is the Archbishop of Krakow , Stanislaw Dziwisz , who was a long-serving private secretary to Pope John Paul II .
Other new cardinals are based in various cities around the world , including Caracas , Seoul , Manila , Boston , Bordeaux , Toledo and Bologna .
Twelve of the 15 cardinals are under the age of 80 and will be eligible to elect Benedict 's successor .
The new cardinals will be formally elevated at a Vatican ceremony on March 24 .
Russia is planning to loan the country 's banks billions of dollars in an effort to keep the economy from stalling under the weight of the expanding financial crisis .
Russia 's President Dimitri Medvedev said Tuesday the government will give the banks $ 36 billion over five years .
Most of the money will go to Russia 's two largest banks , Sberbank and VTB .
Officials hope the injection of cash will prompt Russian banks to start making loans to businesses that need the money to operate .
Like many banks around the world , Russian banks have been reluctant to lend money as the financial crisis has worsened .
The announcement failed to lift Russia 's stock markets .
Both leading Russian indexes , the RTS and the MICEX , hit three-year lows in trading today .
The two indexes fell more than 18 percent Monday , with the RTS suffering its worst one-day loss ever .
Police in Indian Kashmir have arrested a private security guard suspected of playing a role in last month 's train bombings in Mumbai , formerly known as Bombay .
Police say Abdul Hamid , 32 , was arrested Thursday in his village near the cease-fire Line of Control that separates the Indian and Pakistani regions of Kashmir .
Police say he was arrested because forensic experts had found his identity card at one of the seven sites of the July 11 explosions , which killed nearly 200 people .
Hamid is the 11th person arrested in connection with the train bombings , which also left more than 700 people wounded .
Indian security officials have said they suspect homegrown terrorists and Pakistan-based Islamic militants were involved in the deadly attacks .
They have named Pakistan-based outlawed Kashmri separatist group Lashkar-e-Toiba and the outlawed Students Islamic Movement of India .
The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965 .
Geographically surrounded by Senegal , it formed a short-lived federation of Senegambia between 1982 and 1989 .
In 1991 the two nations signed a friendship and cooperation treaty , but tensions have flared up intermittently since then .
Yahya JAMMEH led a military coup in 1994 that overthrew the president and banned political activity .
A new constitution and presidential elections in 1996 , followed by parliamentary balloting in 1997 , completed a nominal return to civilian rule .
JAMMEH has been elected president in all subsequent elections including most recently in late 2006 .
Australia 's public broadcaster says it plans to broadcast unpublished photographs of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners at Iraq 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison .
The images are said to be from the same time period as photos released in 2004 that sparked widespread criticism of U.S. detention conditions .
Australia 's government-funded Special Broadcasting Station ( S.B.S. ) says it plans to air the photos on a program on Wednesday .
The station said the images " reveal further widespread abuse including new incidents of homicide , torture and sexual humiliation . "
The photographs are also at the center of an ongoing legal battle between the American Civil Liberties Union and the U.S. government .
A federal judge had granted the ACLU access to the photos last year , but the government has appealed the decision .
A major human rights group says an Iraqi tribunal set to try Saddam Hussein on genocide and other charges is incapable of giving him a fair trial .
The former Iraqi ruler goes on trial Monday in connection with the deaths of an estimated 100,000 Iraqi Kurds in 1987 and 1988 .
A report on the Human Rights Watch website says Saddam 's first trial by the Iraqi High Tribunal showed that the court 's lawyers and judges do not understand international criminal law .
The group also criticized the trial 's " chaotic " nature and extensive use of anonymous witnesses .
A verdict is pending in Saddam 's first trial on charges of killing 148 people in one village .
This second trial is supposed to cover a separate counter insurgency campaign called " Operation Anfal " that saw thousands of Kurdish villages destroyed .
Russia 's Elena Dementieva has beaten U.S. Open tennis champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium to reach the semifinals of the Porsche Grand Prix women 's hard-court tournament in Filderstadt , Germany .
Dementieva , the fifth seed , knocked the second-seeded Belgian out of the tournament in three sets ( 6-3 , 3-6 , 6-2 ) .
In the semifinals , the Russian plays the winner of a match between compatriot Nadia Petrova and third seed Amelie Mauresmo of France .
Meanwhile , top-seeded Lindsay Davenport of the United States scored a three-set win over former French Open champion Anastasia Myskina of Russia ( 6-2 , 3-6 , 6-1 ) .
Davenport takes on Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia , a straight-set winner over Flavia Pennetta of Italy ( 6-3 , 6-4 ) .
Pakistan , an impoverished and underdeveloped country , has suffered from decades of internal political disputes and low levels of foreign investment .
Between 2001 - 07 , however , poverty levels decreased by 10 % , as Islamabad steadily raised development spending .
During 2004 - 07 , GDP growth in the 5 - 8 % range was spurred by gains in the industrial and service sectors - despite severe electricity shortfalls - but growth slowed in 2008 - 09 and unemployment rose .
Inflation remains the top concern among the public , climbing from 7.7 % in 2007 to more than 13 % in 2010 .
In addition , the Pakistani rupee has depreciated since 2007 as a result of political and economic instability .
The government agreed to an International Monetary Fund Standby Arrangement in November 2008 in response to a balance of payments crisis , but during 2009 - 10 its current account strengthened and foreign exchange reserves stabilized - largely because of lower oil prices and record remittances from workers abroad .
Record floods in July-August 2010 lowered agricultural output and contributed to a jump in inflation , and reconstruction costs will strain the limited resources of the government .
Textiles account for most of Pakistan 's export earnings , but Pakistan 's failure to expand a viable export base for other manufactures has left the country vulnerable to shifts in world demand .
Other long term challenges include expanding investment in education , healthcare , and electricity production , and reducing dependence on foreign donors .
The United Nations has reported new clashes in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region between rebels and government forces .
The UN mission in Sudan said Thursday it evacuated seven staff members from the southern Sharia area to the town of Nyala after the fighting broke out .
It also reported clashes in Jabal Marra in central Darfur .
U.N. spokeswoman Radhia Achouri reported Thursday a continuation of fighting with heavy weapons around the west Darfur town of Golo .
Rebels with the Sudan Liberation Army attacked government-held Golo on Monday .
The United States condemned the violence , saying the rebels killed a large number of Sudanese military personnel .
A Sudanese aid worker was killed Wednesday when a U.N. helicopter crashed while trying to evacuate aid workers from the fighting around Golo .
A British official says his country will cut all aid to Ethiopia 's government and plans to redirect about $ 88 million to humanitarian agencies in the Horn of Africa nation .
Britain 's international development secretary , Hillary Benn , said his government is troubled by events in Ethiopia .
He said Britain is concerned about governance , human rights and the detention of - and serious charges faced by - the opposition , reporters and civilians .
Political and civil unrest has shaken Ethiopia since last May 's disputed general elections .
Hundreds of opposition supporters and journalists have been arrested on charges of treason .
Benn urged talks between the government and the opposition , and he called for an independent investigation into alleged human rights violations in the south-central Oromiya region .
U.S. officials have not announced any change in American aid to Ethiopia , which totals about $ 600 million per year .
U.S. weather forecasters have downgraded tropical storm Gamma to a tropical depression as it meanders off the northern coast of Honduras .
The National Hurricane Center says the center of Gamma is about 120 kilometers northeast of Limon , Honduras , carrying maximum sustained winds of 55 kilometers an hour .
Gamma has already killed nine people in Honduras and left 14 others missing .
The bad weather is also blamed for a plane crash that killed the pilot and two passengers in Belize .
The plane was heading towards a resort lodge owned by U.S. filmmaker Francis Ford Coppola .
Gamma is the 24th named storm of this year 's record-breaking Atlantic hurricane season .
United Nations officials on Cyprus have announced completion of work on restoration of a major Muslim shrine in the Greek-Cypriot held part of the Mediterranean island .
U.N. Development Program officials called the repairs on the Hala Sultan Mosque part of the organization 's continuing effort to foster a meaningful dialogue on Cyprus and improve understanding among cultures worldwide .
The mosque , on the shores of a salt lake near the city of Larnaca , is believed to mark the site of the grave of Umm Haram , a relative of the Prophet Mohammed , who died on Cyprus in the 7th century .
It had been a major site of worship by the islands Muslims until the 1974 division of the island .
Turkish Cypriots regained access to the shrine in 2003 , after crossing points were opened in the line dividing the island .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel says she will not compromise in getting the world 's top industrialized nations to agree to cut greenhouse gasses that contribute to global warming .
Ms. Merkel said in an interview with Germany 's Der Spiegel magazine that the United Nations must take the lead in fighting climate change .
The chancellor said while she welcomes President Bush 's new determination to fight global warming , she said it must be part of a U.N. framework .
Mr. Bush last week called on each the world 's 15 biggest polluters to decide how much they want to cut greenhouse gas emissions on top of reducing gasoline consumption and seeking alternative energy sources .
The United States has refused to ratify the 1997 Kyoto global warming treaty , which calls for specific caps on emissions , calling it economically damaging .
Russia 's defense minister took action against a U.S. television network Sunday for airing an interview with Chechen militant Shamil Basayev .
Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov said the ABC television network will be denied access to anyone connected with his ministry .
Foreign ministry officials has also expressed disapproval , but said they will allow ABC to remain in Russia .
In the broadcast , Mr. Basayev , who has claimed responsibility for past terrorist attacks , said he was planning more attacks to stop what he called the genocide of the Chechen people .
Last week , Russia expressed " strong indignation " to the United States over the interview , saying it ran counter to the spirit of Russian-American cooperation in the global fight against terrorism .
The U.S. State Department restated that Washington considers Mr. Basayev a terrorist , but said that ABC news had a constitutional right to air the interview .
Health officials in Turkey say tests confirm that a 12-year-old girl who died Sunday was infected with the lethal strain of bird flu .
Officials say four children in Turkey have died from the H5N1 strain , and 16 other people are infected .
In Indonesia , officials say a 13-year-old girl has died of bird flu , but tests have not confirmed if she had the H5N1 strain that has killed 12 people there .
Meanwhile , Israeli doctors are testing a man from East Jerusalem who could be their first case of bird flu .
Concerns over new infections come as the World Bank seeks more than $ 1 billion in donations at a global conference on fighting bird flu .
The conference , opening in Beijing on Tuesday , aims to halt the spread of the virus in developing countries and improve care for H5N1 victims .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says Iran is still considering an international package of incentives to suspend sensitive nuclear activities .
Mr. Ahmadinejad said Thursday he is open to negotiations to settle the nuclear dispute .
His comments came on the sidelines of a summit of Muslim leaders in Malaysia .
The United Nations Security Council has demanded that Iran suspend uranium enrichment by the end of the month or face possible sanctions .
The council acted after Iran failed to respond to the international offer of incentives if Tehran suspended enrichment activities .
In comments earlier this week , Mr. Ahmadinejad rejected the U.N. resolution , saying Iran would not give up what he called its right to a peaceful nuclear program .
The United States and its Western allies believe Iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only .
Israel 's military has released aerial photographs it says show Hezbollah stockpiles of weapons in towns and villages in south Lebanon .
An Israeli military official said Wednesday the Lebanese militant group has placed arms caches and rocket storehouses near schools , hospitals and other public buildings in an attempt to use civilians as human shields .
The photographed area was near the Israeli border , where Israel and Hezbollah fought a month-long war in 2006 .
More than 1,200 Lebanese people and about 160 Israelis were killed in the fighting , which was ended by a United Nations resolution .
Lebanon has accused Israel of violating the resolution by flying over Lebanese territory , while Israel has accused Hezbollah of breaching the deal by re-arming itself with weapons smuggled from Syria .
Police say at least 12 Hindu worshippers died Sunday in a stampede at a temple where tens of thousands of people had gathered to attend festivities .
Authorities say at least seven people were injured in the crush .
The incident took place on a narrow path leading to the Mahakali temple in the Panchmahal district of western Gujarat state .
The worshippers were taking part in the Navratri Festival .
Whitney Houston 's divorce from fellow singer Bobby Brown will become final April 24 .
Appearing April 4 in an Orange County , California courtroom , Houston was told that she will get custody of the couple 's 14-year-old daughter , Bobbi Kristina Brown .
Her estranged husband , Bobby Brown , did not attend the hearing .
The couple wed in 1992 ; during their troubled 14-year union , Bobby Brown was arrested on drug and alcohol charges , while Whitney Houston twice entered drug rehabilitation programs .
She filed for divorce in October 2006 , citing irreconcilable differences .
Bobby Brown 's attorney , Ram Cogan , said he will seek to overturn the custody ruling .
The United States says Iran 's incoming president was a leader in the movement that organized the 1979 seizure of the U.S. embassy in Tehran .
A White House spokesman , Scott McClellan , says officials are still investigating whether President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was one of those who took Americans hostage in the attack .
Several former hostages identified Mr. Ahmadinejad as one of their captors shortly after he won Iran 's presidential runoff election last month .
Associates of the president-elect have acknowledged he belonged to the student group that planned the embassy takeover .
But the man who led the attack , Abbas Abdi , has said the incoming president played no role in the seizure or the hostage-taking .
The militants who seized the embassy held 52 Americans hostage for a year before releasing them in January 1981 .
The Somali insurgent group al-Shabab has vowed to wage " holy war " against any new peacekeeping troops sent to assist the Somali government .
Al-Shabab held rallies in Beledweyne and three other towns Wednesday , where speakers denounced East African nations that have pledged to send an additional 2,000 troops to Somalia .
Witnesses say militants went door-to-door and forced people to attend the rallies .
The regional bloc known as IGAD , the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development , pledged the troops on Monday after a plea for help from Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed .
Al-Shabab and another insurgent group , Hizbul Islam , are battling the government for control of the capital , Mogadishu .
The government controls only a few areas of the city with the support of a few thousand African Union peacekeepers .
Al-Shabab and Hizbul Islam are trying to topple the government and set up a strict Islamic state .
Venezuelan authorities say at least 16 prisoners were killed when rival gangs fought for control of a crowded prison .
They say at least 13 other inmates were injured before the riot was brought under control at Uribana prison , west of the capital Caracas .
Authorities said Tuesday the violence started early Monday when the gangs fought for control of two cell blocks .
Riots , murders and other violence are common in Venezuela 's overcrowded prisons .
Palestinian officials say Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia has again postponed presenting his cabinet lineup for a vote in parliament .
Legislators had been expected to vote on the proposed cabinet Wednesday , but Mr. Qureia again failed to rally majority support for a revised lineup that includes more technocrats .
The prime minister abandoned his original cabinet list Monday after several legislators charged it had many corrupt officials , and threatened to vote it down .
Palestinian officials say the vote is now rescheduled for Thursday .
Mr. Qureia must step down if he fails to get his cabinet approved .
Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and claimed for Spain , it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631 and set about exploiting its salt deposits .
The Spanish retook the island in 1633 , but continued to be harassed by the Dutch .
The Spanish finally relinquished Saint Martin to the French and Dutch , who divided it between themselves in 1648 .
Friction between the two sides caused the border to frequently fluctuate over the next two centuries , with the French eventually holding the greater portion of the island ( about 57 % ) .
The cultivation of sugar cane introduced slavery to the island in the late 18th century ; the practice was not abolished until 1848 .
The island became a free port in 1939 ; the tourism industry was dramatically expanded during the 1970s and 1980s .
In 2003 , the populace of Saint Martin voted to secede from Guadeloupe and in 2007 , the northern portion of the island became a French overseas collectivity .
In 2010 , the Dutch portion of the island became an independent nation within the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
Sri Lanka 's government has freed four suspected Tamil rebels in a goodwill gesture as the two sides prepare for peace talks in Geneva next week .
The Tamil men were released on bail Friday after spending four months in prison in the northeastern district of Trincomalee .
Reports say the Sri Lankan government freed the men as part of a prisoner swap with the Tamil rebels .
The rebels say they plan to reciprocate by releasing two Sri Lankan policemen in their custody .
The two sides will meet in Geneva Wednesday to discuss ways of ending a recent wave of fighting that has killed around 150 people since December last year .
After centuries of Danish , Swedish , German , and Russian rule , Estonia attained independence in 1918 .
Forcibly incorporated into the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US - it regained its freedom in 1991 with the collapse of the Soviet Union .
Since the last Russian troops left in 1994 , Estonia has been free to promote economic and political ties with the West .
It joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 .
Top Kashmiri separatist leaders from India are on their way to Pakistani Kashmir to discuss ways to help millions of survivors of the October 8 earthquake that battered Pakistani Kashmir .
The three-member delegation is led by Umar Farooq , the leader of an umbrella Kashmiri separatist group known as the All Parties Hurriyat Conference .
He said his delegation will also meet with Pakistan 's president and prime minister to discuss the continuing peace process between India and Pakistan .
In Islamabad , the Pakistani foreign office said the visit will accelerate peace efforts in Kashmir .
Foreign office spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said Pakistan welcomes the visit because involvement and interaction with the Kashmiris is very important in moving the peace process forward .
President Bush has announced the members of a delegation to represent the U.S. at the inauguration of Benin 's President-elect Thomas Yay Boni .
On Monday , the president said Karen Hughes , the Undersecretary of State for Public Affairs would lead the delegation .
Boni will be sworn into office Thursday .
He is the former head of the West African Development Bank , and ran as an independent candidate promising to fight corruption and poverty .
He succeeds 72-year-old president Mathieu Kerekou , who was prevented from seeking re-election by term limits and an age restriction .
Accompanying Hughes in the U.S. inaugural delegation will be Wayne Neill , the U.S. ambassador to the Republic of Benin , former ambassador Ruth Davis , and Ward Brehm , Chairman of the African Development Foundation .
Afghan officials say a suicide bomber has killed 10 people in a local market , as the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan held talks nearby with local officials .
About 50 people , including a top police official , were wounded in the attack Thursday in the city of Tarin Kot , in central Uruzgan province .
U.S. Ambassador Ronald Neumann was in the governor 's headquarters at the time .
A spokesman for the U.S. embassy says the ambassador was not in danger and has safely returned to Kabul .
A purported Taleban spokesman says a local Taleban carried out the attack .
Also , Afghan security forces near the Pakistani border found a car packed with explosives that they suspect was to be used in an attack .
Afghanistan has been hit with a number of suicide attacks in recent months , including one Monday in the southern city of Kandahar , which wounded an American soldier and two Afghan civilians .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has expressed concern that Russian anti-aircraft missiles being sold to Syria could fall into the hands of terrorist groups .
However , in an interview with Israeli radio broadcast Thursday , Mr. Sharon acknowledged that Israel can not intervene in Russian weapons sales to other countries .
Russia has assured Israel the missiles in question are defensive and vehicle-mounted , and that they could not be converted to shoulder-launched models .
Russian President Vladimir Putin told an Israeli television Wednesday the SA-18 missiles in Syria would " of course make it difficult to fly over the residence of the Syrian president . "
Two years ago , Israeli warplanes flew over President Hafez al-Assad 's palace in Damascus , apparently to warn that he must rein in terrorist groups based in Syria .
Mr. Putin is to visit Israel and the Palestinian territory next week .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell meets Friday with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan to discuss Asian disaster relief programs .
The afternoon meeting in New York comes as the Bush administration is stepping up its response to the earthquake and tsunami disaster .
Secretary Powell will depart for the disaster zone on Sunday together with Florida Governor Jeb Bush , the president 's brother , who has experience dealing with natural calamities , such as hurricanes , in his home state .
Bush administration officials say such visits will help provide the first hand assessments that will be critical to coordinating the massive relief effort .
U.S. military planes have begun delivering supplies to Thailand and Indonesia , and more extensive shipments to help tsunami survivors are heading for the region aboard U.S. naval vessels
Egypt 's health ministry says a second 25-year-old woman has died from the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu in less than one week .
In a statement reported Sunday by Egypt 's state news agency , MENA , the ministry said the woman died in a hospital in the Nile Delta province of Mansura .
She was admitted three days ago .
Hers was Egypt 's 17th death and 42nd human infection since the bird flu virus first appeared there in February 2006 .
Another 25-year-old woman died from the virus last week in Egypt .
Authorities suspect the woman came into contact with infected birds at her home - the most common route of infection .
Two other patients who were admitted to Egyptian hospitals in the past week have been diagnosed with bird flu .
Health experts are concerned that the virus could evolve into a form easily transmissible between humans , which could cause a dangerous global pandemic .
The widely popular U.S. cable TV program about mobsters , The Sopranos , has been nominated for 15 Emmy awards .
James Gandolfini and Edie Falco , who play husband and wife on the show , were both nominated for the best lead acting role in a drama series .
The Sopranos won the Emmy as best dramatic show in 2004 .
It ended a six-season run on HBO last month .
Nominations for the 59th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards were announced Thursday in California .
The awards show is set to be broadcast on September 16 .
Kyra Sedgwick , who helped announced the nominations , was herself honored with a nomination for outstanding lead actress in a drama series .
U.S. authorities have released one of about 10 Iranian citizens held by U.S. forces in Iraq .
U.S. and Iranian authorities say the Iranian man had been detained since July 2004 .
An Iranian state news agency named the man as Heydar Alavi and says he was captured by U.S. forces in northern Iraq .
It says he was handed over to the Iraqi presidential office Tuesday .
U.S. authorities in Iraq freed nine Iranian prisoners last month and said about 10 other Iranians remained in custody .
Iran says some of the detainees are diplomats , while the U.S. military says they were providing support to Shi'ite militants in Iraq .
The U.S. Defense Department said in a report Tuesday Iran continued to train and arm Iraqi Shi'ite militias in the past three months , even as violence in Iraq fell significantly .
The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations , Mexico came under Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving independence early in the 19th century .
A devaluation of the peso in late 1994 threw Mexico into economic turmoil , triggering the worst recession in over half a century .
The global financial crisis beginning in late 2008 caused another massive economic downturn the following year .
As the economy recovers , ongoing economic and social concerns include low real wages , underemployment for a large segment of the population , inequitable income distribution , and few advancement opportunities for the largely Amerindian population in the impoverished southern states .
The elections held in 2000 marked the first time since the 1910 Mexican Revolution that an opposition candidate - Vicente FOX of the National Action Party ( PAN ) - defeated the party in government , the Institutional Revolutionary Party ( PRI ) .
He was succeeded in 2006 by another PAN candidate Felipe CALDERON .
National elections , including the presidential election , are scheduled for July 2012 .
Since 2007 , Mexico 's powerful drug-trafficking organizations have engaged in bloody fueding , resulting in tens of thousands of drug-related homicides .
China has criticized the European Union for requesting formal trade talks with Beijing to settle an ongoing dispute over a glut of Chinese textile imports to Europe .
A statement by China 's commerce ministry Sunday says the EU 's decision sends a protectionist signal to European businesses , and harms the free trade rights of Chinese enterprises .
On Friday , the EU registered its dispute with China to the World Trade Organization to demand emergency talks .
WTO regulations give China 15 days to limit the growth of textile exports to Europe , or face EU-imposed quotas .
Europe says Chinese efforts to slow textile exports have so far not been sufficient .
The United States has already imposed import quotas on some Chinese textiles .
The export of Chinese textiles has skyrocketed since a global quota system ended in January .
Indian police say they have found the bodies of 13 people kidnapped by Maoist rebels this past week in a forest in central India .
The guerrillas had abducted more than 50 people from Dandewada district on Tuesday .
Police said Saturday the 13 bodies were found with their throats slit near the relief camp where they had been kidnapped .
On Friday , police in Chhattisgarh found the bodies of two other men who were among the seized group .
Police killed 11 rebels in a shootout Friday in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh .
Authorities in India say the rebels , who say they are fighting for the rights of neglected tribes and landless farmers , regularly kidnap people as a terror tactic .
A strong earthquake has killed one person and injured 23 in western China 's Sichuan province , near the site of May 's devastating quake .
China 's state-run Xinhua news agency says people ran into the streets after the quake hit Qingchuan county Tuesday evening .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the 6.0 magnitude quake struck 10 kilometers below the surface of the earth .
It hit hours after the Olympic torch relay passed through Sichuan 's capital , Chengdu .
The quake was one of more than 22,000 aftershocks that have rattled Sichuan since a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit the province on May 12 .
That quake killed nearly 70,000 people and left millions more homeless .
Iraq 's prime minister and president have announced a new political alliance of mainstream Shi'ite and Kurdish parties that does not include any Sunni groups .
Iraq 's Shi'ite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Kurdish President Jalal Talabani unveiled the partnership Thursday at a news conference in Baghdad .
Mr. Talabani said his Sunni deputy , Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi , refused to join the group .
But the president said the door remains open .
Hashemi 's Iraqi Accordance Front is the main Sunni bloc in parliament .
Its withdrawal from Mr. Maliki 's Cabinet earlier this month left his unity government in crisis .
The Shi'ite members of the new alliance include Mr. Maliki 's Dawa Party and the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council , SIIC , of Vice President Adel Abdel-Mahdi .
The alliance also includes two Kurdish factions - Mr. Talabani 's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan , and the Kurdish Democratic Party , PDK , of Massoud Barzani .
Kuwait 's ambassador to Lebanon says a hand grenade exploded inside his country 's information office in Beirut , killing a Lebanese employee .
But Ambassador Ali Suleiman al-Seed told reporters the blast was not an act of terrorism .
He says the man was playing around with some old explosives when the grenade went off .
The Associated Press quotes the ambassador as saying the grenade was left over from Lebanon 's 1975 to 1990 civil war .
Earlier , Lebanese security officials said the blast was caused by a parcel bomb .
India 's trade minister says rich countries must be flexible if negotiations on a new global trade treaty are to be revived .
Commerce and Industry Minister Kamal Nath says he has been speaking with trade ministers of several other countries in an effort to revive the talks .
Trade ministers from the United States , the European Union , Japan , Australia , India and Brazil halted the talks last month because of differences over farm subsidies .
The World Trade Organization or WTO organized the talks .
Nath says the talks collapsed because the United States and EU sought to backtrack on their commitments to reduce agricultural subsidies and tariffs in coming years to help poor countries .
He said the rich countries want greater market access for their exports before helping poorer nations .
He said that WTO talks could go no where until that mind-set changed .
Israeli troops have shot and killed three Hamas militants in separate incidents along Israel 's border with the Gaza Strip .
In the first incident Wednesday , Israeli soldiers killed two Hamas militants near the Karni cargo crossing .
Hours later , the Israeli military says troops opened fire at several gunmen who approached the border fence near the Erez crossing in northern Gaza .
One Hamas militant was reported killed and two others were wounded .
Israeli troops frequently fire at Palestinians who approach Gaza 's border fence to prevent infiltrations and to stop militants from launching rockets into Israel .
Hamas seized control of Gaza in mid-June after weeks of fighting with rival Fatah security forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Israel and the international community support the West Bank-based Palestinian government formed by Mr. Abbas and do not recognize Hamas as a legitimate governing body .
Ghana plans Friday to repatriate 45 Liberian refugees who were arrested earlier this week at a refugee camp outside the capital , Accra .
Authorities say the refugees found their way illegally into the Gomoa Buduburam Refugee Camp .
They are among the 600 refugees rounded up for fueling tensions in the camp with a month-long protest .
The refugees had refused to stop the demonstration against a United Nations-funded program that provides refugees with a free trip and $ 100 to resettle in Liberia .
Many refugees say they would rather settle in another country because they fear persecution at home .
U.N. officials have said large-scale resettlement outside Liberia is not an option , and that these refugees should make an effort to help rebuild their country .
Ghana says 40,000 Liberian refugees remain in the country , even though the Liberian civil war ended in 2003 .
The traditional Christmas shopping season in the U.S. kicked off in surprising fashion this past weekend .
But , some analysts say the brief spending spree will not be enough to boost retail profits or spare the industry from the weakest holiday sales in decades .
As Carolyn Presutti reports , the gains came at the expense of stores that slashed prices to lure shoppers .
A MIND Reader made a wager that he would be buried alive and remain so for six months , then be dug up alive .
In order to secure the grave against secret disturbance , it was sown with thistles .
At the end of three months , the Mind Reader lost his money .
He had come up to eat the thistles .
The Israeli parliament has voted down the 2005 state budget , triggering a political crisis that could stall or wreck Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's plans to evacuate the Gaza Strip .
The 69-43 vote comes as Mr. Sharon struggles to keep his minority Likud coalition together ahead of upcoming votes on the planned 2005 Gaza withdrawal .
Opponents have vowed to scuttle the evacuation .
The political crisis erupted Wednesday , when the secular Shinui party - upset with funding provisions for religious parties - defied Mr. Sharon 's orders and voted against the budget on its first reading .
A short while later , the prime minister fired the renegade Shinui ministers , leaving the Likud coalition in control of only 40 votes in the 120-seat Knesset .
Party officials say Mr. Sharon will soon begin negotiations to bring the opposition Labor Party 's 22 lawmakers into the government .
A hamstring injury will keep Olympic triple jump champion Christian Olsson of Sweden out of the Summer Games in Beijing .
Olsson says he pulled a muscle Tuesday in his fourth jump at the DN Galan athletic meet in Stockholm .
The 28-year-old Swede has been plagued by injuries since winning the gold medal in Athens four years ago .
He was competing this week for the first time after a long break .
Olsson placed third with a jump of 17-meters from a second round jump at Olympic Stadium .
But Olsson says he will have to consider if he should continue his career .
Marian Oprea of Romania won Tuesday 's triple jump with an effort of 17 meters , 25 centimeters .
Dmitrij Valukevic of Slovakia was second - 17 meters , one centimeter .
Chilean President Ricardo Lagos is promising that his country will give a fair extradition trial to jailed former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori .
President Lagos said in Santiago that Mr. Fujimori will be accorded due process in line with the tradition of Chile 's judicial system .
Peru is seeking Mr. Fujimori 's extradition so he can face charges that include corruption and human rights abuses .
He fled Peru in 2000 , after 10 years in office , and spent the past five years in his parents ' native Japan .
Mr. Fujimori arrived in Chile Sunday , despite an international warrant for his arrest .
He was later arrested by Chilean police and was refused bond Japanese Embassy officials met with him at his detention facility on Wednesday .
They say that Mr. Fujimori , who holds Japanese citizenship , expressed satisfaction with his living conditions .
Pakistani officials say gunmen have killed 16 people in two separate attacks in the restive southwest of the country .
Police say the first incident took place Saturday in Aab-e-Ghum , a town near the Baluchistan provincial capital of Quetta .
Gunmen stopped a bus , forced some passengers off the vehicle and then killed 10 of them .
Police say the victims were all non-ethnic Baluchis from the eastern Punjab province .
The second attack occurred in Quetta , where gunmen killed six people .
No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attacks and it was not clear whether they were linked .
Separatists have waged a low-level insurgency in Baluchistan for years , seeking more autonomy for the province and a greater share of the profits from its natural resources .
The region is also plagued by sectarian violence .
Crude oil prices rose above $ 96 a barrel in Tuesday 's trading .
That is a rise of more than $ 2 .
Oil traders say the rising price of oil is partly the result of the falling value of the U.S. dollar .
The greenback hit a record low compared to the euro Tuesday .
Oil has traditionally been priced in dollars , so when the value of the dollar falls , it puts upward pressure on the price of crude .
Sri Lankan President Chandrika Kumaratunga says the unprecedented tragedy gripping the country offers an opportunity to find a permanent solution to the ethnic conflict plaguing the island nation .
In a New Year 's message , Mrs. Kumaratunga asked her country to unite - without regard to ethnicity , religion or class - to face the staggering destruction from Sunday 's tsunami .
The president 's attempts to revive peace talks with Tamil separatists have been deadlocked for 20 months and her remarks were being seen in Colombo as an overture for peace .
Relief supplies have begun arriving in Sri Lanka , but reports indicate that aid convoys continue to have difficulty reaching some of the hardest hit areas .
Syria 's ambassador to Washington says his country has halted military and intelligence cooperation with the United States , because of what he calls unjust American allegations .
In an interview with the New York Times published Monday , Ambassador Imad Moustapha said that in the last 10 days , Damascus severed all links with the U.S. military and Central Intelligence Agency .
Mr. Moustapha said he believes the Bush administration has decided to escalate the situation with Syria , despite steps it has taken against insurgents in Iraq and the pullout of its troops from Lebanon .
Bush administration officials have frequently complained that Syria is not doing enough to stem the flow of men and money to the insurgency in Iraq .
The New York Times says Syria 's action has prompted high-level debate within the Bush administration about steps that might be taken against the Syrian government .
The government of the Netherlands has suspended education , environment and water programs in Kenya , citing concerns over corruption .
In a statement , the Dutch government said it was suspending aid worth nearly $ 150 million to the east African country , because it has not seen enough proof the Kenyan government is fighting corruption .
The Dutch government said it will continue to fund judicial reform and good governance programs .
The government of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki has been hit by two major multimillion dollar corruption scandals that have forced the ministers of energy , finance and education to resign .
Kenya 's vice president , central bank governor , former intelligence and security ministers and other officials are being investigated in connection with the scandals .
Mr. Kibaki won the presidency in 2002 and pledged to root out the systemic corruption that marked former President Daniel arap Moi 's 24 years in power .
Former Ecuadorean President Lucio Gutierrez has formally requested political asylum in Colombia after receiving reports he is wanted in his homeland on treason charges .
Colombian officials say Mr. Gutierrez submitted his application after arriving from Peru Wednesday and that he has permission to remain in Colombia for 90 days while the asylum request is examined .
Last July , the Ecuadorean government issued an arrest warrant for the former president , charging him with harming national security .
Aides to Mr. Gutierrez say the charges may be related to comments he made in the United States shortly after his ouster in April , claiming he remains Ecuador 's constitutional president .
Ecuador 's Congress removed Mr. Gutierrez from office after weeks of mass protests .
Critics had demanded his resignation for what they called an abuse of power after he packed the Supreme Court with his allies .
Egypt 's intelligence chief Omar Suleiman met with Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal Tuesday in Cairo for talks on forging a power-sharing deal between Hamas and its political rival Fatah .
The meeting comes just days after Suleiman met with members of a Fatah delegation .
Egypt has been trying to get the two groups to form a unity government , but tensions between the rival factions have been rising , with recent deadly clashes in the West Bank .
In the West Bank Tuesday , Palestinian security forces shot and wounded a motorist who they believed was threatening a convoy carrying a senior aide to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
A spokesman for the security forces , Adnan Damiri , said the driver refused orders to move his car away from the convoy carrying Mr. Abbas ' aide , Tayyeb Abel-Rahim .
The spokesman said it was not clear whether the man was posing a deliberate threat .
The U.S. military says three more American service members have been killed in Iraq .
A military statement says two Marines died Thursday from wounds sustained in combat in Anbar province -- a Sunni insurgent stronghold west of Baghdad .
Another statement said a soldier died in combat this week in Ninewa province , northwest of Baghdad More than 2900 U.S. troops have been killed in Iraq since the 2003 invasion .
In Baghdad Thursday , Arizona Republican Senator John McCain called for 15,000 to 30,000 more U.S. troops in Iraq to help stop sectarian violence .
But the U.S. Army 's top general , Peter Schoomaker , warned of the strains on the Army from overseas deployments .
The general said the Army " will break " without thousands more active duty soldiers .
U.N. special envoy , former U.S. President George H.W. Bush , has toured a tent camp in the Pakistani capital , Islamabad , housing the survivors of last year 's devastating earthquake .
But winter weather prevented him from visiting Pakistani Kashmir 's ruined capital , Muzaffarabad , and also grounded vital aid flights to survivors there for a third straight day .
At a joint news conference with Pakistan 's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , Tuesday Mr. Bush said his role is to encourage those who have pledged relief and reconstruction aid to deliver on their pledges .
A U.N.-led relief operation is under way in Pakistan , but U.N. officials say the world body is still far short of the $ 500 million needed to sustain the effort .
The October 8 quake killed more than 73,000 people and left some three million homeless .
A happy event has turned to tragedy at the Beijing Zoo , where officials say a giant panda accidentally crushed and killed her newborn cub .
The cub was one of two born Friday to 8-year-old mother Yinghua .
But in what zookeepers say is normal panda behavior , Yinghua abandoned one of the cubs , which has been removed to an incubator in Sichuan province .
Xinhua news agency quoted zoo official Zhang Jingguo saying the mother was looking for the remaining cub in order to nurse it when she rolled over and crushed it early Saturday .
He said pandas are known for their poor eyesight .
Pandas are among the world 's most endangered species , with only about 300 living in captivity and 1,600 in the wild .
The Beijing Zoo has seven pandas .
Differences over an election bill and choice for interior minister have delayed Monday 's expected announcement of formation of a new government in Lebanon .
An official in Beirut said talks were under way to break the impasse , which threatens to delay parliamentary elections scheduled for May .
Lebanon has been without a government since mass protests erupted after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Under intense domestic and international pressure following the demonstrations , pro-Syrian Prime Minister Omar Karami and his government resigned in February .
He was re-appointed two weeks later after pro-Syrian legislators refused to accept his resignation .
Anti-Syrian opposition leaders say Mr. Karami 's inability to form a new government is really a delaying tactic to try to derail the elections , which can not be held until a new government if formed .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin says European Union membership negotiations with Turkey can not begin unless Ankara recognizes all EU member states , including Cyprus .
Mr. de Villepin made the comment during a radio interview Tuesday .
In response , Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul said Ankara expects France 's continued support for Turkey 's EU process .
The 25-nation bloc plans to open membership talks with Turkey in October .
Last week , Turkey signed an accord that extends its customs agreement with the European Union to new member states .
These include the divided island of Cyprus , which joined the bloc last year .
But Turkey said the agreement does not represent a diplomatic recognition of the Greek Cypriot government .
The EU and most nations view the Greek Cypriot government as the divided island 's legitimate authority .
Ankara recognizes a separate government dominated by ethnic Turks .
U.S. President George Bush has signed a measure extending unemployment benefits for a growing number of out-of-work Americans .
Mr. Bush signed the legislation into law Friday and it allows unemployed Americans to receive government payment for an extra seven weeks .
Those in states with higher unemployment rates can receive benefits even longer .
The U.S. Senate passed the bill Thursday , after a new report showed the number of unemployed Americans signing up for benefits for the first time grew to the highest level in 16 years .
The White House said the financial and credit crises has slowed the U.S. economy " dramatically " , and has had an impact on job creation .
The judge at the trial of Saddam Hussein has thrown out one of the former Iraqi leader 's co-defendants amid fierce arguments over the veracity of prosecution witnesses .
The judge in Baghdad removed defendant Barzan al-Tikriti from the courtroom and threatened to keep him in a cell after a heated exchange of words between the two men Wednesday .
Earlier , the defense team accused a prosecution witness of perjury and presented a video disc , claiming it contained a contradictory statement from a witness who testified against Saddam late last year .
The footage shown in the court shows the witness saying there was no attempt to kill Saddam in Dujail in 1982 , only celebratory firing to mark the former dictator 's visit .
Saddam and seven co-defendants are facing charges of crimes against humanity in connection to the deaths of 148 Shi'ite Muslims following the failed attempt on his life .
Hundreds of truckers gathered in Washington DC on April 28 to protest the high cost of fuel .
The truckers say Washington lawmakers have been far too silent on an issue that has grave repercussions for the U.S. economy .
They called on Congress to stop subsidizing big oil companies and demanded a cap on the cost of fuel .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Elco Industries Inc. said it expects net income in the year ending June 30 , 1990 , to fall below a recent analyst 's estimate of $ 1.65 a share .
The Rockford , Ill. , maker of fasteners also said it expects to post sales in the current fiscal year that are " slightly above " fiscal 1989 sales of $ 155 million .
The company said its industrial unit continues to face margin pressures and lower demand .
In fiscal 1989 , Elco earned $ 7.8 million , or $ 1.65 a share .
The company 's stock fell $ 1.125 to $ 13.625 in over-the-counter trading yesterday .
Jordan 's largest opposition group says it will boycott the country 's November parliamentary elections .
The decision late Thursday deals a blow to polls the government hailed as a cornerstone of political reforms .
The powerful Muslim Brotherhood Movement based its decision on the fallout from a new electoral law , which it says will undercut the group 's robust showing in past elections .
The new legislation reduced seats for lawmakers elected from urban areas , where the Brotherhood is popular .
It increased seats from rural regions , dominated by pro-government Bedouin tribes .
The boycott by the country 's largest opposition group will leave it without a voice in parliament .
The United Nations says U.N. and Congolese troops have launched an offensive against a militia group in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
The U.N. peacekeeping force in Congo says one government soldier and at least six militia fighters have been killed in fighting this week in Ituri province .
A spokesman for the force said at least 1,000 Congolese government troops are involved in the operation .
Reuters news agency cites him as saying the militiamen are ethnic Lendu fighters who have refused to join the U.N.-backed disarmament process .
Some 15,000 U.N. troops are in Congo trying to restore order after years of instability and war .
Wednesday , the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution deploring that foreign armed groups continue to operate in the eastern DRC , and demanded that they immediately disarm .
Colombia 's Constitutional Court has approved a law that allows presidents to serve more than one term , which could pave the way for the current president to run again .
The decision from the country 's highest court came Wednesday .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe must wait for the court to decide on another measure that sets the rules for incumbents before his name can appear on the ballot for elections set for May .
The president , who was elected in 2002 , has instituted tough policies against insurgents and drug traffickers .
Colombia has been mired in four decades of civil war .
Supporters and opponents of the war in Iraq have faced off against each other at rival rallies outside President Bush 's Crawford , Texas ranch .
On Saturday , police kept dozens of Bush supporters and anti-war activists on separate sides of a narrow country road , as the two sides jeered at each other .
At least two people were arrested .
Elsewhere in town , thousands of people gathered for pro-Bush and anti-war rallies .
Folk singer and peace activist Joan Baez led supporters in song at the anti-war gathering .
The anti-war activists are led by Cindy Sheehan , whose son , Casey , was killed in Iraq last year .
Mrs. Sheehan began holding vigils in Crawford earlier this month and has demanded to meet with President Bush to discuss the war .
During his radio address Saturday , the president appealed for Americans to be patient with the military mission in Iraq .
The U.S. military says coalition forces killed between 15 to 20 militants in the past two days in Sangin district , of the southern Afghan province of Helmand .
A statement says the militants were carrying assault rifles and grenade launchers .
The violence continued Monday , with two suicide attacks and a roadside bomb blast .
Local officials say a suspected Taleban suicide attacker in a car exploded a bomb near a coalition convoy in Uruzgan province .
The attacker died , and one soldier and one civilian were hurt .
Another suicide attacker blew up his car near an Afghan army convoy in Helmand province , killing the attacker but hurting no one else .
Meanwhile , a bomb exploded near a convoy of coalition forces traveling along a highway in southern Kandahar province , injuring two Canadian soldiers .
Violence has intensified in Afghanistan in recent months , as NATO builds up troop numbers in the restive south .
Russian news reports say police have arrested the governor of a mineral-rich region on suspicion of embezzlement .
The reports say Alexi Barinov , governor of the Nenets autonomous region in Russia 's Arctic , is in police custody and has begun a hunger strike .
Prosecutors reportedly opened a case against Barinov last week .
The suspect was previously the chief executive officer for a unit of the oil company Lukoil .
Barinov said last week that while at Lukoil prosecutors had dropped a criminal case against him for lack of evidence .
The RIA-Novosti news service says the probe centers on allegations that Barinov used his post at Lukoil to purchase several apartments illegally through the company .
A Barinov spokesman has denied the charges .
Iraqi police say an Italian journalist , a reporter for the Italian newspaper Il Manifesto , has been kidnapped in Baghdad .
Unknown gunmen abducted Giuliana Sgrena Friday as she was conducting an interview near Baghdad University .
Several Italians have been kidnapped in Iraq over the past 18 months .
Two Italian aid workers were abducted in Baghdad last September and threatened with death before being released unharmed several weeks later .
Another Italian journalist was snatched in August and was killed after Rome refused to yield to the kidnappers ' demand that Italy withdraw its nearly 3,000 troops from Iraq .
The church janitor was also the organist , and had to watch his keys and pews .
The Israeli military says it has carried out three air strikes on Gaza following rocket attacks by Palestinian militants .
Gaza officials say no injuries were reported from the strikes .
The Israeli army says two of the strikes hit smuggling tunnels on the territory 's border with Egypt .
Aircraft also struck a building allegedly used by militants to store arms .
Palestinian militants fired two rockets into Israel Sunday causing no injuries .
Israel launched a three-week offensive in late December against the Palestinian militant group Hamas , which rules the Gaza Strip .
The offensive was in response to continuing rocket attacks from Gaza .
Both Hamas and Israel declared unilateral cease-fires in January , but the violence continues almost daily .
Pope Benedict says the Catholic Church must examine failures that have allowed for " an unimaginable dimension " of sexual abuse by priests .
The pope said Monday that church authorities also must renew efforts to help victims and screen potential pedophiles from the priesthood .
Speaking to cardinals and bishops gathered in Rome to hear the pontiff 's traditional Christmas message , the pope defended most priests for their good works but said the church had to ask itself what was wrong in its message that allowed such abuse to occur .
Catholics in Ireland , Germany , the Netherlands and Belgium have demanded church accountability for the abuses , which began coming to light eight years ago in the United States and later became apparent in Europe .
Victims have accused the church hierarchy of failing for decades to act swiftly to punish errant priests .
European Union leaders are meeting at Britain 's Hampton Court Palace near London to consider policies that will help the grouping compete in the world economy and deal with challenges posed by globalization .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , wants leaders to reach consensus on how the block will deal with such issues as free trade .
He also hopes the one-day informal summit will help resolve the stalemate over the bloc 's upcoming five-year budget for the period beginning in 2007 .
Budget talks collapsed in June after a dispute between Britain and France on EU spending .
Ahead of Thursday 's meeting , Mr. Blair told the European Parliament in Strasbourg that Europe is facing competition from such emerging economies as China and India .
Meanwhile , the parliament asked EU countries to contribute more money for research , development , and to aid poor regions .
The Bush administration 's top economic advisors say immigration benefits native-born workers in the United States .
A report issued Tuesday , by the President 's Council of Economic Advisors also says immigrants make up more than 15 percent of the U.S. workforce , and they pay more in taxes than they use in benefits .
Immigrants are concentrated in the lowest and highest economic levels - those without a high school diploma , and those who hold a doctorate degree .
Fierce political debates have been going on in the United States over how to cope with the estimated 12 million people who have already migrated here illegally .
Congress and the Bush administration are also haggling over who should be allowed to immigrate in the future .
Iran has barred journalists from the Cable News Network from the country , following a mistaken translation that quoted Iran 's president as saying his country has a right to build nuclear weapons .
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told reporters Saturday that his nation has a right to pursue nuclear technology .
But CNN 's translator used the word " weapon " instead .
CNN has apologized for the error .
But Iran says the network 's reporters and stringers are barred until further notice .
The network said Monday it has not been officially notified of the ban .
CNN does not have a permanent correspondent in Iran .
But reporters have occasionally been allowed to enter the country for brief assignments .
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders , meeting in Singapore , have called for more cooperation on global economic recovery efforts , and have warned against withdrawing economic stimulus measures too early .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev Saturday called for broad international cooperation to overcome the global crisis and achieve sustainable growth .
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd proposed creating an Asia-Pacific Community , styled after the European Union .
Chinese President Hu Jintao said promoting openness in international trade and curbing protectionism would help revive the world economy .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon singled out Washington for " going in the opposite sense of free trade . "
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev made the same point .
In Tokyo earlier Saturday , U.S. President Barack Obama called on Asian countries to break their dependence on exports to the United States , and to pursue " balanced " and sustainable economic growth .
A published report says the Bush administration is planning new measures against anyone doing business with Iranian , North Korean and Syrian companies Washington believes are involved in weapons programs .
The Washington Post quotes unidentified U.S. officials in its report Monday saying the plan would initially target eight entities mostly suspected of working with missile programs in those three countries .
An internal government memo indicates the plan would provide a new tool against the trafficking of weapons of mass destruction .
The newspaper says new measures would include freezing assets of any U.S. or foreign individual or company conducting business with the suspected Iranian , North Korean and Syrian companies .
White House officials are reported to be hopeful President Bush will sign the executive order before he heads to Scotland late this week for the Group of Eight summit .
Amnesty International is denouncing Algeria 's alleged use of torture to obtain information about terrorism from prisoners .
The human rights group says Algeria 's intelligence agency , the Department for Information and Security , is using the international " war on terror " to perpetuate abuses .
The group says detainees are held for months without outside contact and are subject to beatings , electrical shocks and the forced ingestion of dirty water , urine or chemicals .
Amnesty also urged foreign governments to not forcibly return Algerians likely to be abused .
Amnesty issued its report Monday one day before Algeria 's President Abdelaziz Bouteflika is to meet British Prime Minister Tony Blair in London .
They are expected to discuss an agreement that would enable Britain to deport Algerian terror suspects .
The Algerian Embassy in London declined comment on the Amnesty report .
Chinese state media say a fire in a popular restaurant in the northeastern province of Liaoning has killed 11 people and injured 16 others .
The official Xinhua news agency reports Sunday that the fire broke out in the kitchen and fully engulfed the Baixinglou restaurant in the city of Chaoyang Saturday evening .
Firefighters put out the blaze after battling the flames for more than hour .
Xinhua says the victims included diners and waiters at the restaurant .
They are hospitalized and are reported in stable condition .
The news agency says initial investigations show improper use of a stove sparked the fire .
The U.S. Treasury Department is putting tight financial restrictions on the Syria-based leader of a group linked to al-Qaida , accused of helping supply terrorists in Iraq .
The Treasury announced Thursday it is freezing all assets held by Abu Khalaf under U.S. jurisdiction , and is prohibiting American citizens from doing business with him .
According to the department , Khalaf is a senior leader of al-Qaida in Iraq 's " facilitation network , " which controls the flow of resources -- including weapons , money and militants -- from Syria into Iraq .
A Treasury official , Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Stuart Levey , said the department will continue to target al-Qaida-linked terrorists who " threaten the safety of Coalition Forces and the stability of Iraq . "
The Treasury Department has the authority to impose financial sanctions on foreign businesses and people considered a threat to U.S. national security and foreign policy goals .
Six Arab states on the Persian Gulf are considering a proposal to invite Iran to join in declaring the oil-rich region a nuclear-free zone .
Leaders of Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , Qatar and Saudi Arabia joined UAE officials in Abu Dhabi Sunday under tight security for the two-day meeting .
Before the summit , the Gulf Cooperation Council 's secretary-general ( Abdul Rahman al-Attiya ) said the group trusts Iran , but wants to ensure that a nuclear power plant is not built close to the waters of member states .
Iran is under intense international pressure to halt work on its suspect nuclear fuel program and allow inspectors full access to its nuclear sites .
The United States accuses Tehran of secretly trying to develop an atomic bomb , but Iran says its program is aimed at developing electricity .
The U.S. government says it has distributed nearly $ 690 million in direct aid to the victims of Hurricane Katrina .
The Federal Emergency Management Agency says it has distributed the money among more than 330,000 families displaced by the catastrophic storm .
The majority of the money ( $ 551 million ) has been handed out to 268,000 families in the hard-hit state of Louisiana .
Much of the money has been given out in the form of $ 2,000 grants .
FEMA has been criticized for what many say was a slow response to Hurricane Katrina .
Michael Brown , the agency 's director , was removed this week from heading relief operations in the Gulf Coast .
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono says his country plans to build a hospital for Palestinians in Gaza Strip .
Mr. Yudhoyono made the pledge during a meeting Saturday with visiting Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
He said Indonesia will contribute more than $ 2 million to fund the project .
Speaking to reporters in Jakarta after the meeting , he also said Indonesia is ready to play a role in the Middle East peace process .
Mr. Abbas said he had asked President Yudhoyono to support of his efforts to end Israel 's siege of Gaza .
Israel has blockaded the Palestinian territory for three years , after the militant group Hamas seized power from the moderate government .
Indonesia is the world 's most populous Muslim nation .
It has long supported the Palestinian cause and does not have diplomatic relations with Israel .
President Abbas is on an Asian tour that will also take him to Vietnam and Malaysia .
SOME White Christians engaged in driving Chinese Heathens out of an American town found a newspaper published in Peking in the Chinese tongue , and compelled one of their victims to translate an editorial .
It turned out to be an appeal to the people of the Province of Pang Ki to drive the foreign devils out of the country and burn their dwellings and churches .
At this evidence of Mongolian barbarity the White Christians were so greatly incensed that they carried out their original design .
A new report by the United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) says millions of children in Eastern Europe and Central Asia still live in poverty , despite economic progress across the regions .
UNICEF says its findings indicate economic growth alone does not necessarily improve the lives of children .
At Wednesday 's unveiling of the report in Moscow , UNICEF director Carol Bellamy said poverty leads to poor nutrition and sick children , as well as young people not being able to attend school .
She said , at worst , it also " means violence and desperation , with more children in institutions , " plus " soaring drug and alcohol abuse among the young . "
The report laments that economic growth in the regions has rarely been accompanied by initiatives to tackle serious problems affecting children .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels say new government air raids have killed 14 people , but the military denies that civilians were targeted in the attacks .
A rebel statement Tuesday said fighter jets dropped bombs on Mannar in northwest Sri Lanka , destroying residential homes .
It said six children were among those killed , and that dozens of other civilians were wounded .
But the military strongly denied targeting civilians .
A military spokesman said one raid focused on a rebel naval base in Mannar , while another air attack was carried out on a rebel position in the east .
Violence has flared in Sri Lanka despite a 2002 truce between the government and rebels , who are fighting for independence .
More than 3,000 people were killed last year .
Since 1983 , some 67,000 civilians , troops and rebels have died in the conflict .
For most of the countries of the former Yugoslavia , the ride from armed conflict during the 1990s to the calmer waters of European integration has been stormy , with various degrees of success .
VOA 's Jela de Franceschi takes a closer look at progress made in transforming the Western Balkans into a region of economic and political stability .
Police in Iraq say 17 people have been killed in a car bomb explosion south of Baghdad .
Officials say Saturday 's blast occurred near a hospital in Musayyib , about 55 kilometers south of the Iraqi capital .
About 20 people were injured .
Earlier Saturday , masked assailants in the southern city of Basra shot and killed a judge , Taha al-Amiri , who had worked in Saddam Hussein 's regime .
Meanwhile , police in the northern city of Mosul say they have discovered the bodies of at least six Iraqis who had been shot in the head and chest .
The violence comes one day after 23 people were killed in attacks against Shi'ite Muslim targets in Iraq .
U.S. automaker Ford unveils its latest attempt to stem North American losses on Monday .
Media reports say Ford will cut 25,000 or more jobs over the next four to five years , and close some manufacturing facilities .
Chief Executive Officer William Clay Ford Jr. will announce the new plan , which has been dubbed " Way Forward . "
It will be the CEO 's second major restructuring of the company since taking over in 2001 .
Ford is the world 's third-largest automaker .
It has endured 10 consecutive years of market-share losses to Asian carmakers , particularly Toyota .
Some of its most popular products , such as the Explorer SUV , have seen sales fall dramatically as fuel prices have risen to record levels .
Israeli media say the navy is building an underwater barrier off the coast of northern Gaza to stop potential Palestinian infiltrators .
The Jerusalem Post newspaper quotes Israeli military officials as saying the barrier will stretch 950 meters into the sea from Israel 's border with the Gaza Strip .
The report says the first 150 meters will consist of cement pilings buried into the sandy bottom while the remaining 800 meters will be formed by a floating fence .
The structure is designed to stop Gaza-based militants from swimming to the Israeli coast once Israel pulls out of Gaza and parts of the West Bank .
Israel is also building a land barrier along the West Bank .
Peru 's economy expanded 9.8 percent in 2008 as strong commodity prices helped it grow at the fastest rate in 14 years .
News reports say growth slowed a bit at the end of 2008 and the beginning of this year .
A report from Bloomberg also says Peru 's government is reporting a one percentage point increase in unemployment , putting the rate at 8.8 percent .
Peruvian officials apparently hope to boost trade to help economic growth .
Japan 's Kyoto news service reports that Peru 's foreign and trade ministers plan a visit to Japan for talks on bilateral trade and other issues February 23 .
Japan is seeking lower duties on cars it sells to Peru while Peru wants better access to Japan 's farm and fisheries markets .
British Finance Minister Gordon Brown has outlined a series of measures to halt the funding of terrorists .
During a speech in London Tuesday , Mr. Brown said the new measures would allow the Treasury to act based on classified intelligence .
He said there should be no safe haven for terrorists nor those who finance them anywhere in the world .
Brown said the government measures would be accountable to parliament scrutiny .
Political analysts say the speech was designed to bolster Brown 's credentials to succeed Prime Minister Tony Blair , who has said he plans to step down within the next year .
The British government already has tightened several anti-terrorism laws since four British Islamist suicide bombers killed 52 people on London 's transport network last July .
The United Nations Security Council is extending the mission of the joint U.N.-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region for another year .
In a resolution unanimously adopted Thursday , the council extended the mandate of the force ( UNAMID ) until July 31 , 2010 .
The United Nations and African Union are in the final phase of deploying the world 's largest peacekeeping mission in the troubled region .
U.N. officials have said they expect 26,000 soldiers to be in Darfur by the end of this year .
Darfur rebel groups took up arms against Sudan 's government in 2003 , accusing it of neglecting Darfur .
The United Nations estimates 300,000 people have died during the conflict .
Sudan 's government gives a much lower figure of 10,000 war-related deaths .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli forces have shot and killed four Palestinians during a raid on a town in the northern West Bank .
Witnesses say Israeli troops killed two Palestinian gunmen during the raid Thursday , including a local leader of the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade .
The militant group is linked to the Fatah faction of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
In fierce exchanges of fire , two unarmed Palestinians were also killed and at least 10 others wounded .
In other news , Arab League foreign ministers met in Cairo Wednesday to discuss ways to revive the Middle East peace process .
Bahrain 's foreign minister , Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa , told the opening session that a new and effective mechanism from the United Nations Security Council is needed to re-launch the process .
A U.S.-based press watchdog group has sent a delegation to Venezuela to study allegations of repression against journalists in the country .
Members of the Inter American Press Association say they hoped to discuss the concerns with officials , but add Information Minister William Lara had refused to meet them .
Tuesday , the delegation visited the offices of Correo del Caroni newspaper , which local lawmakers had slated for demolition .
In a report last year , the group said press freedom is " seriously threatened " in Venezuela , and accused officials of persecuting opposition journalists .
It also expressed concern about recent laws that restrict television and radio broadcasts .
Venezuela 's government has defended the laws , saying they are intended to raise media standards and not limit free speech .
Palestinian security forces have arrested a Hamas militant long wanted by both the Palestinian Authority and Israel .
Senior Palestinian security officials , speaking on the condition of anonymity Friday , said forces captured Ayoub Al-Qawasmi near the West Bank city of Hebron .
Officials said al-Qawasmi has been wanted since 1998 for a series of attacks on Israelis .
Israel has also been conducting security sweeps near Hebron in recent days .
Israeli forces on Thursday seized a Hamas member of the Palestinian parliament who had recently been released from an Israeli prison .
Separately , the French News Agency ( AFP ) Friday said Israel 's Shin Bet security service released a statement saying 2010 has had the fewest militant attacks against Israel since a Palestinian uprising began a decade ago .
But , the statement also says Hamas leaders in the Gaza Strip have intensified efforts to smuggle in advanced weapons .
Palestinian medical officials say two Palestinian children were killed in an explosion in the Gaza Strip that may have been caused by an Israeli tank shell .
The medical officials say the children , who were cousins aged 10 and 12 , died in the explosion Wednesday in the northern Gaza Strip .
The officials say a young female cousin was critically injured .
The Israeli military said it fired at rocket launchers in the area .
Tuesday , the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian Authority met in Jerusalem to discuss some of the core issues of the Mideast conflict .
Israeli officials said Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas talked about the status of Jerusalem , Palestinian refugees and final borders .
Brad Delp was found dead March 9 , at his home in the northeastern state of New Hampshire .
The 55-year-old musician , who sang for the popular rock act Boston , was apparently alone at the time of his death .
A police investigation is ongoing .
Formed in the early 1970s , Boston remains a staple on U.S. classic rock radio playlists .
The band was reportedly planning a mid-year tour .
Heavy monsoon rains in Pakistan 's south have killed at least 26 people and cut off electricity in the country 's largest city , Karachi .
The rainfall started Saturday and flooded areas of the port city .
Officials say some of the victims died from drowning and electrocution .
Others were killed by collapsing homes .
The 15 centimeters of rainfall damaged hundreds of buildings and downed power lines across the city .
Pakistani officials say they are working to restore electricity and control the situation .
Despite the downpour , meteorologists are predicting almost a third less rainfall this year .
Karachi suffers from outdated infrastructure and a poor drainage system that leaves parts of the city vulnerable to flooding .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says great democracies have an obligation to respect the rule of law .
She also told reporters Thursday in Brussels that if allegations of human rights abuses by U.S. personnel are reported , they will be investigated and punished .
Ms. Rice discussed U.S. policy on detainees with NATO officials on Wednesday .
Afterward , NATO Secretary-General Jaap De Hoop Scheffer said Ms. Rice had cleared the air about Washington 's views on secret prisons and the treatment of terrorist suspects overseas .
He did not elaborate .
Ms. Rice 's four-nation European tour has been overshadowed by reports that the CIA has used European airports to fly terror suspects to secret prisons in eastern Europe .
She has not confirmed or denied the existence of the prisons , but on Wednesday she said the United Nations Convention Against Torture applies to U.S. personnel both at home and abroad .
Top-seeded Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia has broken Spaniard Carlos Moya 's hold on the Chennai Open tennis tournament by beating the two-time defending champion 7-6 , 6-2 in the title match in India .
The third-seeded Moya , who was trying for his third straight title at this event , squandered a 4-0 lead in the first set tiebreaker Sunday .
Ljubicic then dominated Moya in the second set .
But before making it to the title match , Ljubicic had to get past Belgium 's Kristof Vliegen in a semifinal match disrupted by heavy rain Saturday night .
Ljubicic led the match 3-1 in the first set when the match was suspended .
Resuming Sunday , Ljubicic won the first set 6-3 , before dropping the second set 3-6 .
The Croatian then survived a scare from Vliegen by rallying from 0-3 and 2-5 deficits in the final set tiebreaker to win the match , 6-3 , 3-6 , 7-6 .
Russian lawmakers have passed a sweeping new anti-terrorism bill that would allow the military to attack planes and ships used in terrorist acts , even if hostages are aboard .
The 450-seat lower house of parliament , or Duma , overwhelmingly approved the legislation by a vote of 423-1 , Sunday .
The bill now goes to the upper house of parliament , where approval is expected , after which it would be signed into law by Russian President Vladimir Putin .
The legislation defines terrorism and what constitutes a terrorist act , and outlines procedures for carrying out counter-terrorism operations within and outside Russian territory .
The proposed law also would allow Russian authorities to monitor telephone conversations and control electronic communications for security reasons .
Israel 's cabinet is set to vote Sunday on a final go-ahead for this month 's evacuation of Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip .
Officials say the debate may be prolonged , but Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's evacuation plan is likely to win final approval .
The cabinet is expected to begin by reviewing plans for evacuating the three most isolated settlements in Gaza - Netzarim , Morag and Kfar Darom - a stronghold of those who oppose the withdrawal .
Fears of violence have increased ahead of the August 15 pullout , since a Jewish militant boarded a bus and shot four Israeli Arabs to death , apparently to stir unrest and draw security forces away from Gaza .
In the West Bank today , Palestinian militants opened fire on an Israeli car near the Jewish settlement of Ateret , north of Jerusalem .
At least two people , including a 10-year-old boy , were wounded .
The International Court of Justice has affirmed a decades-old treaty that granted Colombia three small islands in the Caribbean .
The court in The Hague , Netherlands , Thursday said the sovereignty of the islands of San Andres , Providencia and Santa Catalina was settled in the 1928 treaty between Colombia and Nicaragua .
Nicaragua had challenged the ownership to the islands , which lie some 220 kilometers off its coast in waters rich in fish and potential oil .
The U.N. court is now to take up the question of sovereignty over other areas in the archipelago that are not addressed in the treaty .
Afghanistan and Italy have expressed confidence that kidnapped Italian aid worker Clementina Cantoni will be released safely .
Afghan Interior Ministry spokesman Lutfullah Mashal told a Kabul news conference Saturday the government has been in regular contact with the kidnappers who seized Ms. Cantoni May 16th and that leaders are optimistic she will be freed .
Later , Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi expressed similar views to journalists after speaking with Italy 's intelligence minister about the case .
The statements came a day after Afghan religious leaders issued a fatwa , or religious decree , pledging death to anyone killing a foreigner who is in the country legally .
Ms. Cantoni , who is 32 , has run a Care International food distribution program in Kabul for three years , assisting thousands of widows and orphans .
U.N. humanitarian chief Jan Egeland says he may halt aid to the western Darfur region of Sudan if violence there continues to escalate .
Mr. Egeland told reporters at U.N. headquarters in Geneva Wednesday that the rising violence in the Darfur region has put aid workers at risk .
He says if the situation worsens , they may not be able to continue the humanitarian operation for the 2.5 million people in the region who require assistance .
Mr. Egeland says the situation has gotten so serious , the aid could stop within a day .
Earlier this week , special U.N. advisor Juan Mendez said violence was continuing in Darfur despite the claims of the Sudanese government .
The fighting in Darfur pits rebels against government-backed Arab militia and has sent hundreds of thousands of people fleeing into Chad .
Kenya 's President Mwai Kibaki has announced the resignation of two senior cabinet members implicated in corruption scandals .
Speaking on state television today , Mr. Kibaki said his energy minister and education minister have stepped down so investigations into the scandals can proceed .
The Kibaki government has been shaken by accusations of multi-million dollar graft against several top officials , including Vice President Moody Awori .
The allegations led former finance minister David Mwiraria to resign last month .
The accused officials have denied any wrongdoing .
The Kibaki government took power in 2002 pledging to stamp out corruption , which was prevalent under previous Kenyan governments .
Greece achieved independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1829 .
During the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century , it gradually added neighboring islands and territories , most with Greek-speaking populations .
In World War II , Greece was first invaded by Italy ( 1940 ) and subsequently occupied by Germany ( 1941 - 44 ) ; fighting endured in a protracted civil war between supporters of the king and other anti-Communists and Communist rebels .
Following the latter 's defeat in 1949 , Greece joined NATO in 1952 .
In 1967 , a group of military officers seized power , establishing a military dictatorship that suspended many political liberties and forced the king to flee the country .
In 1974 , democratic elections and a referendum created a parliamentary republic and abolished the monarchy .
In 1981 , Greece joined the EC ( now the EU ) ; it became the 12th member of the European Economic and Monetary Union in 2001 .
In 2010 , the prospect of a Greek default on its euro-denominated debt created severe strains within the EMU and raised the question of whether a member country might voluntarily leave the common currency or be removed .
Iraqi authorities say a suicide bomber has killed at least 25 people outside an Iraqi army recruitment center near the border with Syria .
Police say dozens more people were wounded in the attack in the town of Rabiah , about 10 kilometers east of the Syrian border .
In an Internet statement , Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror group , al-Qaida in Iraq , claimed responsibility for the bombing , saying one of their members carried out the attack using an explosives belt .
It was not possible to authenticate the claim of responsibility .
Iraqi security forces and police are frequent targets of insurgents .
In other developments , ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein appeared before the Iraqi Special Tribunal Thursday to answer questions about the repression of a Shi'ite uprising in 1991 .
Reports from China say a woman in southwestern Sichuan province has died of bird flu .
China 's Health Ministry confirmed Monday that the 29-year-old woman was the seventh person to succumb to the deadly H5N1 form of the bird flu virus .
Indonesian health officials said Wednesday local tests have confirmed that a chicken seller in Jakarta has the deadly strain of the virus .
World Health Organization officials in Indonesia say they are focusing on the need to improve hygiene at markets to reduce exposure to the disease .
Friday , health workers from refugee camps and migrant communities on Burma 's border are to meet with local officials and donors in Thailand to prepare for possible bird flu outbreaks .
Bird flu has killed at least 81 people in East Asia and Turkey since 2003 .
Characterized by large and well-developed agricultural , mining , manufacturing , and service sectors , Brazil 's economy outweighs that of all other South American countries , and Brazil is expanding its presence in world markets .
Since 2003 , Brazil has steadily improved its macroeconomic stability , building up foreign reserves , and reducing its debt profile by shifting its debt burden toward real denominated and domestically held instruments .
In 2008 , Brazil became a net external creditor and two ratings agencies awarded investment grade status to its debt .
After record growth in 2007 and 2008 , the onset of the global financial crisis hit Brazil in September 2008 .
Brazil experienced two quarters of recession , as global demand for Brazil 's commodity-based exports dwindled and external credit dried up .
However , Brazil was one of the first emerging markets to begin a recovery .
Consumer and investor confidence revived and GDP growth returned to positive in 2010 , boosted by an export recovery .
Brazil 's strong growth and high interest rates make it an attractive destination for foreign investors .
Large capital inflows over the past year have contributed to the rapid appreciation of its currency and led the government to raise taxes on some foreign investments .
President Dilma ROUSSEFF has pledged to retain the previous administration 's commitment to inflation targeting by the Central Bank , a floating exchange rate , and fiscal restraint .
Nepalese journalists staged a protest in the capital , Kathmandu , to demand an end to government censorship .
More than 300 journalists marched through the city Tuesday , waving signs calling for freedom of the press and down with autocracy .
Police did not break up the rally or make any arrests , as in previous protests .
Nepal 's King Gyanendra dismissed the government on February 1 , suspended civil liberties and imposed emergency rule .
The Federation of Nepalese Journalists ( FNJ ) says at least 13 journalists have been detained since then .
The head of the organization says its members are going to fight until complete press freedom is restored in the country .
King Gyanendra said he made the power grab in order to subdue increasingly violent Maoist rebels .
Egypt 's ruling party said Wednesday that it will back 82-year-old Hosni Mubarak if he decides run for another term as president in 2011 , even though Mr. Mubarak has yet to say whether he will seek another term .
Egypt 's state-run MENA news agency quotes National Democratic Party leader Safwat Sherif as saying his party is just waiting for President Mubarak 's decision on whether he will run again in 2011 .
The 82-year-old leader has ruled Egypt for nearly 30 years .
There has been speculation about his health and whether he will again seek office since his gallbladder surgery in March .
Also , many political experts believe Mr. Mubarak is grooming his son , Gamal , to take over .
Mr. Mubarak and his son have both denied any succession plan , but the Reuters news agency quotes one party official as saying Gamal Mubarak could be a candidate , along with others in the 2011 contest .
The trial of Saddam Hussein is to resume Monday , but it remains unclear if the former Iraqi leader and his seven co-defendants will appear in court .
Saddam , his co-defendants and his defense team boycotted the last session of the trial , saying they would not return until the new chief judge is replaced .
They say the judge , Rauf Abdel Rahman , is biased against the defendants .
Saddam 's legal team also said they were wrong in earlier reporting that he planned to go on a hunger strike to protest his trial .
They now say no hunger strike is planned .
The former Iraqi dictator and his co-defendants are on trial for the killing of more than 140 Shi'ites , in the village of Dujail , following a 1982 assassination attempt against Saddam .
The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross has met with President Bush to discuss concerns about detainees held at U.S. facilities in Iraq and Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Red Cross officials in Geneva say the Monday talks between ICRC President Jakob Kellenberger and Mr. Bush in Washington focused on the humanitarian agency 's concerns regarding U.S. detentions , ICRC relief operations and armed conflicts worldwide .
A White House spokesman Tuesday said the president 's meeting with Mr. Kellenberger focused on a wide range of issues , but he did not give details .
The spokesman said that when the ICRC has concerns , the Bush administration listens .
Mr. Kellenberger also met Monday with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , and he is scheduled to meet with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld later today .
The ICRC has been at odds with the Bush administration over the status of prisoners since the 2001 U.S.-led war in Afghanistan .
Iraq 's oil minister says government forces could be ready to take over security responsibility from international forces by the end of next year .
Hussain al-Shahristani , who is making his first visit to Australia , told reporters in Canberra Thursday that it would not take years for foreign troops to withdraw from Iraq .
He said more than half of country is now under total control of Iraqi forces .
He said for the rest of the country , the government is planning to have sufficient trained and equipped Iraqi forces by the end of 2007 or - perhaps 2008 .
But Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer called the Iraqi official 's timeframe " optimistic . "
Downer cautioned against a premature withdrawal of international forces from Iraq , saying the insurgents are likely to call that a victory and use that argument to recruit more terrorists .
A jury has been selected for the trial of pop star Michael Jackson on child molestation charges .
Attorneys Wednesday settled on a jury of four men and eight women , ranging from 20 to 79 years old .
The jury reportedly contains eight whites , three Hispanics , one Asian , and no African-Americans .
The selection process took only two-and-a-half days after being delayed for a week by Jackson 's hospitalization with flu-like symptoms .
The entertainer is accused of sexually molesting a 13-year-old boy at the singer 's Neverland ranch .
Jackson has pleaded not guilty and predicted his acquittal .
In 1993 , he paid more than $ 23 million to settle a separate child molestation case out of court .
Afghan security forces have stopped a suspected al-Qaida assassination attempt on a provincial governor in northern Afghanistan .
Police say bodyguards arrested an alleged al-Qaida member when he entered the home of the governor of Balkh province , Atta Mohammed , with explosives hidden under his clothes .
Police say the man is from the African nation of Mali , and they suspect he intended to blow himself up when he was with the governor .
Atta Mohammed was a senior leader in the Northern Alliance , which teamed up with U.S.-led international forces to oust the Taleban in 2001 .
In eastern Afghanistan , a U.S. soldier was killed in an attack on his patrol near Mihtarlam , in Laghman province .
A U.S. statement says the patrol returned fire and called in air support but the attackers fled .
Israel 's top general has ordered the army to stop using Palestinian civilians as human shields in arrest raids .
Thursday 's order from General Dan Halutz came hours after the Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the army 's practice of forcing Palestinian civilians to approach the homes of suspected militants violates international law .
The court ruling grew out of a 2002 case brought by Israeli and Palestinian human rights groups , after a Palestinian teenager was forced to knock on the door of a suspected West Bank militant .
The teenager was shot dead when gunfire erupted moments later .
In August of 2002 , the court issued a temporary injunction against the practice .
But a 2004 photograph of a Palestinian boy strapped to the front of an Israeli jeep under attack by Palestinian stone-throwers prompted human rights activists to complain the army was ignoring the court order .
Chad 's president has urged Sudan 's government and rebels in the western Darfur region to respect a repeatedly violated cease-fire , and declare an end to their two-year civil war .
President Idriss Deby told officials from both sides at a meeting in Chad Thursday that it is time for them to respect their commitments .
Wednesday , officials at the meeting , including Sudan 's President Omar Hassan al-Bashir , asked mediators to prepare for a new round of talks later this month .
Three previous rounds of talks have failed to stop the violence in Darfur , which has left at least 70,000 people dead and 1.5 million others displaced .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the Security Council Wednesday to act quickly to stop what he called " further death and suffering " in Darfur .
A train accident in the Republic of Congo has killed around 60 people and injured hundreds of others .
Officials with rail company CFCO say four train cars filled with passengers derailed and plunged into a ravine late on Monday .
Media reports say at least 300 people were hurt in the crash .
The accident occurred near the southern coastal city of Pointe Noire .
The train was en route to the capital , Brazzaville .
The Court of Arbitration for Sport has denied the appeal by Greek sprinters Konstantinos Kenteris and Ekaterina Thanou to be allowed to return to competition .
The court refused to lift the sprinters ' provisional ban until after it rules whether Kenteris and Thanou deserve suspensions for missing three doping tests before the 2004 Olympics in Athens .
The Lausanne-based court said Monday it will take up the case again on June 26 , and plans to render its ruling within two to three days .
But the ban will stand until a decision is reached .
Kenteris was the 200-meter Sydney Olympics champion in 2000 , while Thanou won the women 's 100-meter silver medal at the same Games .
They were provisionally suspended by the athletics world governing body , IAAF last year after the Greek Athletics Federation refused to punish them .
The Israeli military says a rocket fired from the Gaza Strip has landed in southern Israel , further straining the fragile cease-fire between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas .
Israeli officials did not report any injuries or damage from the rocket .
No one has claimed responsibility for Monday 's incident .
Hamas has warned it will take action against anyone who breaks the truce .
On Sunday , Israel re-opened a border crossing with Gaza to allow about 80 truckloads of commercial goods into the Palestinian territory .
Israel closed the crossings after an Islamic Jihad rocket attack last week .
The group said the attack was revenge for Israel 's killing of one of its commanders in the West Bank .
The West Bank is not included in a cease-fire agreement between Israel and Hamas leaders in the Gaza Strip .
Christians on a rampage in southern Nigeria have burned two mosques in retaliation for Muslim protests last weekend in which dozens of people , many of them Christian , died .
Today 's riots took place in Onitsha , the capital of the mostly Christian state of Anambra .
At least one person has died .
An Anambra police spokesman told the French news agency that a scuffle broke out between Hausas , who are Muslim , and Ibos , ethnic Christians from the south .
Christian rioters then set the mosques on fire .
The spokesman said order has been restored .
Muslim protests last weekend in northern Nigeria were the deadliest yet since cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad appeared in a Danish newspaper last year .
Rioters attacked Christians and burned down churches .
Nigeria is mostly Muslim in the North and Christian in the south .
Sectarian violence in one part of the country frequently sparks reprisals elsewhere .
More people in divided Kashmir are being allowed to use the five crossing points opened by India and Pakistan on the military Line of Control after the October earthquake .
Earlier , the openings were used mainly for exchanging materials for quake relief .
The crossing points have been opened to civilians so they can know the welfare of relatives on the other side .
On Thursday , 25 people crossed the Line of Control , in the Uri sector of Indian Kashmir .
Indian officials say 20 went to the Pakistani side , while five people returned home to the Indian side .
Those crossing to the Pakistani side included four residents of Pakistani Kashmir who had been stranded in Indian Kashmir .
The effort to reunite separated Kashmiri families by opening the de~facto border is seen as an offshoot of the almost two-year-old peace process between Pakistan and India .
The leader of Al-Qaida in Iraq has called on weapons experts to supply his fighters with biological weapons and dirty bombs .
In an audio recording posted Thursday on the Internet , a man who identified himself as Abu Hamza al-Muhajer also urged militants in Iraq to kidnap Western Christians to swap for a Muslim cleric jailed for life in the U.S. Egyptian cleric Omar Abdel-Rahman was convicted of plotting to attack New York city landmarks , including the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center .
The voice on the recording could not be independently verified .
In violence Thursday , more than 20 people were killed in Iraq .
Bombings and shootings in and around Baghdad targeted civilians , Iraqi soldiers and police .
Officials also reported finding 40 bodies showing signs of torture .
U.S. military intelligence officials warned that illegal militias are returning to Baghdad neighborhoods recently cleared by U.S. and Iraqi troops .
Like many other South Pacific island nations , the Cook Islands ' economic development is hindered by the isolation of the country from foreign markets , the limited size of domestic markets , lack of natural resources , periodic devastation from natural disasters , and inadequate infrastructure .
Agriculture , employing more than one-quarter of the working population , provides the economic base with major exports made up of copra and citrus fruit .
Black pearls are the Cook Islands ' leading export .
Manufacturing activities are limited to fruit processing , clothing , and handicrafts .
Trade deficits are offset by remittances from emigrants and by foreign aid overwhelmingly from New Zealand .
In the 1980s and 1990s , the country lived beyond its means , maintaining a bloated public service and accumulating a large foreign debt .
Subsequent reforms , including the sale of state assets , the strengthening of economic management , the encouragement of tourism , and a debt restructuring agreement , have rekindled investment and growth .
The United Nations ' food agency says the battle to contain the lethal form of avian flu in Indonesia is failing .
Joseph Domenech , the head of the U.N. 's Food and Agricultural Organization , says the East Asian archipelago is facing " an uphill battle " trying to control the H5N1 form of the virus .
Domenech says he is concerned that the high levels of infected birds in Indonesia could help the virus mutate into a form that could be passed among humans , triggering a worldwide pandemic that could kill millions .
The H5N1 form of avian flu has killed nearly 240 people across Asia since it was first detected in 2003 , including 105 in Indonesia .
Domenech says major financial and human resources , stronger political commitment and better coordination between all levels of government in Indonesia are needed to fight the virus .
Tokelau 's small size ( three villages ) , isolation , and lack of resources greatly restrain economic development and confine agriculture to the subsistence level .
The people rely heavily on aid from New Zealand - about $ 10 million annually in 2008 and 2009 - to maintain public services .
New Zealand 's support amounts to 80 % of Tokelau 's recurrent government budget .
An international trust fund , currently worth nearly US $ 32 million , was established in 2004 to provide Tokelau an independent source of revenue .
The principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra , postage stamps , souvenir coins , and handicrafts .
Money is also remitted to families from relatives in New Zealand .
Kuwait 's Interior Ministry says a suspected Saudi militant has been killed in a lengthy gunbattle with police .
Another militant , with Kuwaiti nationality , was captured , and authorities seized a large cache of weapons , ammunition and explosives in the daytime raid Saturday .
House-to-house searches were continuing in the residential Umm al-Haiman district , south of Kuwait City for several other suspects who fled .
State television carried pictures of the scene , where two security officers also were wounded .
Citizens were warned not to harbor any fugitives and to call police if they saw any suspicious activity .
Today 's incident is the second in less than a week .
A militant and two policemen were killed in a gunfight Monday in Kuwait City .
China says a recent outbreak of avian flu in the northwestern Xinjiang region has killed nearly 5,000 birds .
Official Chinese news agency Xinhua reported Friday that authorities killed 29,000 birds to control the outbreak in the city of Turpan .
On Thursday , a government laboratory confirmed the presence in poultry of the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Bird flu outbreaks were reported also this week in Bangladesh , Israel and Vietnam .
The World Health Organization says the virus has killed more than 200 people worldwide .
U.S. officials say differences remain in talks with India on a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement , but there is hope a final deal can be reached before President Bush visits New Delhi next month .
The U.S. Embassy released a statement Saturday expressing hope for an agreement after Washington 's negotiator , Nicholas Burns , left New Delhi following three days of talks .
Washington has offered to provide India with civilian nuclear technology , but wants assurances that the Indian government will not use the technology for military purposes .
President Bush has said he wants to return from India with a final nuclear cooperation pact so he can begin work on getting approval from Congress .
Mr. Bush 's national security advisor , Stephen Hadley , said Friday that if no deal is reached before the visit , negotiations will continue after the president 's trip .
State media in Guinea say military leaders have put the army on high alert after learning of an alleged plot to overthrow the government .
An official statement read on television said Captain Moussa " Dadis " Camara took the measures after learning that fighters in neighboring countries were planning to attack Guinea .
It said the fighters are financed by drug traffickers who have fled Guinea to avoid arrest .
The report did not say where the government was getting its information .
Camara seized power in December just hours after the death of longtime dictator Lansana Conte .
The military leader quickly suspended the constitution and dismissed the civilian government .
He won public support by vowing to crack down on corruption and drug trafficking .
But critics such as Human Rights Watch have accused Camara 's forces of restricting political activity and arbitrarily arresting and beating people .
Former South African Deputy President Jacob Zuma has held a fundraising rally on the eve of the verdict in his high-profile rape trial .
Thousands of supporters attended a concert in the Johannesburg suburb of Soweto for the 64-year-old anti-apartheid veteran .
Zuma is accused of raping a 31-year-old H.I.V. positive woman who is a longtime family friend .
He claims the sex was consensual .
The trial has drawn widespread interest across South Africa and Monday 's verdict ( at 0700 UTC ) is scheduled to be broadcast live on television .
The three-month trial has focused attention on South Africa 's high incidence of rape and H.I.V. infection .
The 64-year-old Zuma was once considered a strong contender to succeed President Thabo Mbeki , who fired him because of corruption-related accusations last year .
Zuma is due to stand trial on corruption charges in July .
About 20,000 Mexican union workers clogged rush hour traffic in the capital Tuesday demanding that the recently ousted miners ' union boss be reinstated .
Union leaders threatened to call a general strike if the government did not retract its support for the newly installed General Secretary of the miners ' union , Elias Morales .
The government had earlier removed Napoleon Gomez from the elected position .
Gomez has been under investigation by the government for alleged corruption .
Tuesday 's march comes days after the 250,000-member National Miners and Metal Workers Union shut down most mining and steel operations across the country in a two-day strike to support Gomez .
U.S. military spokesmen say four American soldiers have been wounded by an insurgent 's roadside bomb that hit their armored vehicle in northeastern Afghanistan .
The troops were attacked as they returned from defusing another bomb near Asadabad town , in Kunar province .
A military statement says the wounded were evacuated to Bagram Air Base , north of Kabul , where they are in stable condition .
The statement also says U.S. and Afghan troops have begun a search " to kill or capture those responsible . "
Similar attacks in the past have been blamed on the Taleban , which was ousted by a U.S.-led invasion four years ago .
Eastern Turkmenistan for centuries formed part of the Persian province of Khurasan ; in medieval times Merv ( today known as Mary ) was one of the great cities of the Islamic world and an important stop on the Silk Road .
Annexed by Russia between 1865 and 1885 , Turkmenistan became a Soviet republic in 1924 .
It achieved independence upon the dissolution of the USSR in 1991 .
Extensive hydrocarbon / natural gas reserves could prove a boon to this underdeveloped country once extraction and delivery projects are expanded .
The Turkmen Government is actively working to diversify its gas export routes beyond the still dominant Russian pipeline network .
In 2010 , new gas export pipelines that carry Turkmen gas to China and to northern Iran began operating , effectively ending the Russian monopoly on Turkmen gas exports .
President for Life Saparmurat NYYAZOW died in December 2006 , and Turkmenistan held its first multi-candidate presidential election in February 2007 .
Gurbanguly BERDIMUHAMEDOW , a deputy cabinet chairman under NYYAZOW , emerged as the country 's new president .
Japan and South Korea have announced plans to create tens of thousands of new jobs aimed at boosting the economy while protecting the environment .
The Japanese environment ministry says it is preparing a so-called " Green New Deal Plan " to create at least one million new jobs in energy-saving and other environment-friendly technologies .
The plan could include incentives to encourage the production and purchase of electric cars and energy-efficient household electronics .
South Korea 's government Tuesday also unveiled a so-called Green New Job Creation Plan , expected to create 960,000 new jobs .
About 140,000 new jobs are targeted for this year .
Officials say they will invest about $ 38 billion in the next few years to clean-up the country 's four main rivers , maintain forests , develop cleaner transportation and conserve energy .
French aviation authorities say they have banned Cameroon Airlines flights from France because of safety concerns .
The civil aviation authority said in a statement Friday that Cameroon Airlines was not respecting international standards for safety .
The statement said the concerns were notably in the areas of loading , transport of dangerous materials , navigation documentation and tire maintenance .
The statement said French and Cameroonian authorities agreed on a plan of action earlier this year to correct the situation , but new tests carried out in July and August still showed persistent problems .
Earlier this month , France banned six African , Caribbean , and Asian airlines from its airspace for safety reasons , following a string of recent aviation accidents .
China has confirmed that the next round of six-country talks on North Korea 's nuclear weapons program will begin November 9 in Beijing .
The date was announced Thursday , by China 's Foreign Ministry .
Next Wednesday 's start for the six-party talks comes just ahead of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum November 18 and 19 in Busan , South Korea .
At the last round of nuclear talks in September , North Korea agreed to abandon its nuclear programs in exchange for economic aid and security assurances .
But Pyongyang then said it will not disarm unless it is first given a civilian light-water nuclear reactor for power generation - a demand U.S. officials say is unacceptable .
The six party talks include both Koreas , China , Russia , Japan and the United States .
The Colombian navy says more than 100 Ecuadorean migrants are missing and feared drowned after their overcrowded boat capsized and sank in the Pacific Ocean .
Authorities said Wednesday that the migrants , hoping to enter the United States illegally , were aboard the vessel when it sank last Friday off Colombia 's coast .
Seven men and two women survived .
They were rescued by a fishing boat .
Investigators say the overcrowded Ecuadorean vessel had the capacity for 15 people but that as many as 120 people may have been on board .
The Colombian navy has deployed an airplane and boat to search for bodies .
Ecuador is also participating in the search .
Officials say the doomed boat had set sail from the Ecuadorean port of Manta .
Palestinian officials say President Mahmoud Abbas is heading to the Gaza Strip Saturday - his first trip to the region since deadly clashes between Fatah party supporters and the rival Hamas faction .
Officials have not explained the purpose of his visit .
Mr. Abbas of Fatah and Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas are expected to hold mediation talks in Jordan with King Abdullah .
No date has been given for those talks .
Tensions between Fatah and Hamas have been high for months .
Last month , forces from each side fought open street battles in Gaza and the West Bank .
At least 17 people died in that fighting .
A ceasefire agreed to last week has largely ended the violence , but has done little to resolve the standoff .
Palestinian security sources say Israel troops are withdrawing from the West Bank city of Nablus after two days of house-to-house searches for militants and bomb factories .
The sources say the Israeli forces began leaving Nablus late Monday .
However , the Israeli military has not confirmed that the operation is completely over .
Israeli troops entered the densely populated Palestinian city early Sunday and detained dozens of people .
They imposed a curfew that confined about 50,000 Palestinians to their homes .
Palestinians say Israeli gunfire Monday killed one Palestinian man and wounded several others .
The Israeli military said soldiers have uncovered at least three explosives laboratories .
Palestinian officials have condemned the operation , saying it could spark a new cycle of violence and undermine efforts to revive the peace process .
Israel , which describes Nablus as a terrorist hub , says the operation has been essential for defending Israeli citizens .
Cuba 's main labor organization says the state is to lay off more than 500,000 public sector workers by March .
The Cuban Workers Confederation said the country can not and should not continue supporting businesses , production entities and services with inflated payrolls .
It said the losses hurt the economy and are ultimately counterproductive , creating bad habits and distorting worker conduct .
In the statement released on state-run media , the union said Cuba would change its labor structure and salary system and increase private sector job opportunities .
Currently , the state employs 95 percent of the official work force .
Several weeks ago , Cuban President Raul Castro said his government would scale back its involvement in the nation 's economy and allow more Cubans to operate their own businesses and hire workers .
He said the aim was to create jobs for Cubans employed by the government who will be laid off .
A POLITICAL Leader was walking out one sunny day , when he observed his Shadow leaving him and walking rapidly away .
" Come back here , you scoundrel , " he cried .
" If I had been a scoundrel , " answered the Shadow , increasing its speed , " I should not have left you . "
Mexican police are searching for the people responsible for kidnapping the two top traffic officials in the northern city of Monterrey .
Enrique Barrios Rodriguez was kidnapped early Monday morning when armed assailants rammed through the front gate of his home .
It was just a day after his operations chief , Reynaldo Ramos , was abducted from his home nearby .
Monterrey Mayor Fernando Larrazabal said the motive was not yet known .
He said the state prosecutor 's office is handling the investigation .
Monterrey is the capital of the Mexican state of Nuevo Leon , which has experienced a recent increase in drug-related violence .
The mayor has recently fired a large number of traffic police officers suspected of corruption or collusion with drug traffickers .
The rising cost of living is hurting a growing number of Americans , especially those who live on fixed incomes .
Among the hardest hit are retirees .
More and more are finding that the money they set aside for their golden years may not be enough to take care of their needs .
It 's an issue an estimated 46 million Americans will grapple with as they reach retirement age this year .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Bolivian President-elect Evo Morales says he welcomes dialogue with the United States and forgives the U.S. government for what he calls " so many humiliations . "
Morales made the comments Wednesday while visiting South Africa ahead of his inauguration January 22 .
He said any dialogue that helps end discrimination and poverty is welcome .
Morales did not explain what he meant by " humiliations . "
But he has made no secret of his plans to end a U.S.-funded coca eradication program at work in his country .
Morales campaigned on promises to encourage cultivation of the coca plant , which has traditional uses but also is used to make cocaine .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Tuesday said he is sure the U.S. Embassy in Bolivia has already started plotting to overthrow Morales .
But an embassy spokeswoman told the Associated Press that the idea is ridiculous .
The United Nations World Food program has condemned the hijacking of another ship it hired to transport food to Somalians suffering from famine .
The WFP says the ship Miltzow was being unloaded Wednesday afternoon at the port of Merka when a group of gunmen boarded and forced the crew to sail out of the port .
The Miltzow was carrying maize , beans and cooking oil .
On Monday , the freighter Torgelow was hijacked off the eastern coast of Somalia .
The Torgelow was carrying fuel and supplies to another ship , the Semlow , which was recently freed by hijackers .
The Semlow was hijacked in June as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia with a load of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
Lebanon has filed charges against two Lebanese brothers named in a U.N. probe into the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Officials said they had recently arrested the two men , Ahmad and Mahmoud Abdel-Al , who are members of a pro-Syrian Islamic militant group , Al-Ahbash .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials warned of possible measures against Syria if it refuses to cooperate with the U.N. probe into Mr. Hariri 's killing .
U.S. officials are co-sponsoring a draft resolution at the United Nations that would impose sanctions on suspects in the murder .
Syrian officials have rejected the U.N. probe , which implicates top Syrian and Lebanese officials .
Russia , which holds a veto on the Security Council , says it will oppose sanctions against Syria .
The Arab League and Mr. Hariri 's son , Saad , have also expressed opposition to possible U.N. sanctions .
Burma 's official media reported Saturday that troops confiscated grenades and other weapons from a border hide-out used by suspected drug traffickers , after an earlier gunbattle killed 13 policemen and members of their patrol .
The state-run New Light of Myanmar said the shoot-out took place February 20 near the northeastern town of Tachileik , which borders Thailand .
The report said an anti-drug squad was patrolling the Mekong river near Tachileik when it encountered drug traffickers and a gunbattle broke out .
Eight policemen were killed , along with two local militia members and three police boat drivers .
Two police officers were wounded .
The paper said that police , acting on a tip , found 15 tents several days later on an island in the Mekong .
Authorities seized grenades , rifles , ammunition and blocks of caffeine - an ingredient of methamphetamine tablets .
Italian officials say Taleban forces may have kidnapped an Italian journalist missing in southern Afghanistan for three days .
Daniele Mastrogiacomo , a reporter for Italy 's La Repubblica newspaper , disappeared Sunday in Kandahar province with his interpreter and a guide , both Afghans .
A Taleban spokesman said Tuesday the group had captured a European reporter on suspicion of spying for British forces .
The spokesman did not mention Mastrogiacomo by name .
Italy 's ambassador to Afghanistan , Ettore Francesco Sequi , told the French Press Agency Wednesday that there has been no contact with the kidnappers so far .
Mastrogiacomo , 52 , has been covering conflicts in Central Asia and the Middle East for La Repubblica since 2002 .
Pakistan says it has tightened security around all its nuclear facilities following a surge of militant attacks within its borders .
The head of the agency that handles Pakistan 's nuclear arsenal , Khalid Kidwai , told foreign reporters Saturday that , in his words , " the state of alertness has gone up . "
However , he said there is no conceivable scenario in which Pakistan will fall to al-Qaida or Taliban type extremists .
Militant groups have launched a rising number of attacks on Pakistani security forces and intelligence personnel in recent months .
Pakistan is estimated to have about 50 nuclear weapons .
Organizers of Afghanistan 's landmark general elections say that according to early reports from nearly all polling stations , turnout was 53 percent .
U.N.-Afghan chief electoral officer Peter Erben says Thursday this is in line with earlier estimates , with some 6.6 million voters casting ballots in the first parliamentary elections in more than 30 years .
The figure for Sunday 's polls is more than one million lower than in last year 's presidential election .
Analysts say a range of factors , including a complex electoral system and the fear of attacks by Taleban insurgents , have caused the drop in numbers .
Meanwhile , vote counting from the elections is under way .
Election officials say they plan to issue intermittent results , but a final certified result for all of the provinces is expected to take more than month .
Portugal 's national football ( soccer ) team will host a match to raise funds to aid victims of the tsunami disaster in Asia .
The president of the Portuguese Football Federation says Portugal 's national team will play a squad made up of players from the Asian nations hit by last weekend 's devastating tsunami .
The match will be played during the first two weeks of January at Lisbon 's 65,000 seat Stadium of Light .
Money raised from ticket sales for the game will be donated to charities working to aid victims of the earthquake-triggered disaster , which may have killed as many as 150,000 people .
Uganda has lifted the suspension of a private radio station whose host criticized the government over the death of Sudanese Vice President John Garang .
KFM radio renewed broadcasts Thursday , including host Andrew Mwenda whose comments sparked the dispute .
Last week , Uganda 's Broadcasting Council shut down the station after Mr. Mwenda accused the government of " incompetence " for flying Mr. Garang in what he called a " junk " helicopter .
Authorities also arrested Mr. Mwenda on charges of sedition , saying the comments could have sparked mass riots .
He has since been freed on bail .
Ugandan officials have also ordered the station to pay nearly $ 3,000 for costs of the suspension procedure .
Mr. Garang was killed on July 30 while flying back to southern Sudan aboard Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni 's personal helicopter .
Italian chemical giant Montedison S.p.A. , through its Montedison Acquisition N.V. indirect unit , began its $ 37-a-share tender offer for all the common shares outstanding of Erbamont N.V. , a maker of pharmaceuticals incorporated in the Netherlands .
The offer , advertised in today 's editions of The Wall Street Journal , is scheduled to expire at the end of November .
Montedison currently owns about 72 % of Erbamont 's common shares outstanding .
The offer is being launched pursuant to a previously announced agreement between the companies .
Ukraine 's opposition party has agreed to hold talks with President Leonid Kuchma to resolve the crisis over Sunday 's disputed presidential elections .
Mr. Kuchma is calling on all political forces in the former Soviet republic to immediately enter into talks .
The appeal came after about 200,000 opposition supporters marched on the presidential office in Kiev to demand that their candidate - Viktor Yushchenko - be declared the winner of the election .
Official preliminary results showed the pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich winning the vote .
Mr. Kuchma , a backer of the prime minister , called the protests a " political farce " that he says could lead to " unforseeable consequences . "
U.S. and European observers reported indications of extensive voter fraud in Sunday 's election .
Russian President Vladimir Putin called European criticism inadmissible because final results have not been announced .
Ethiopia has reported 18 new cases of polio as it begins a nationwide vaccination program targeting more than 16 million children under the age of five .
A health ministry official says the polio cases were found in the Tigray , Amhara and Oromia regions .
The country kicked off its polio immunization campaign on Wednesday with over 100,000 volunteers and health workers taking part .
Polio has spread in Africa and elsewhere as far as Indonesia following a 2003 boycott of immunizations by Islamic leaders in northern Nigeria .
They claimed the vaccine was contaminated .
United Nations peacekeeping troops in Haiti have surrounded the residence of ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide , threatening to forcefully evict demobilized soldiers who have seized the compound .
Haiti 's interim government has ordered the rebels out of the compound in the suburb of Tabarre .
The government said Thursday U.N. troops will do whatever is necessary to clear the residence .
The ex-soldiers - who helped lead the three-week rebellion that ousted Mr. Aristide in February - moved into the compound on Wednesday .
Mr. Aristide is in exile in South Africa .
Asian markets fell sharply Monday , on fears a recession in the United States will weaken the demand for Asian exports .
China 's Shanghai Composite Index tumbled more than 7 percent while the Nikkei in Tokyo and Sensex in Mumbai were both down almost 4 percent .
Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index dropped more than 5 percent .
The major European indexes in London , Paris and Frankfurt were also down in midday trading , but much less than Asia , dropping about 2 percent .
Analysts say investors are still nervous following last week 's worldwide plunge , despite President 's Bush 's plan to revitalize the slowing U.S. economy with tax rebates .
The U.S. Federal Reserve meets this week to consider if another interest rate cut is needed to help stave off a recession .
President Bush is promoting his new nominee for Supreme Court justice , citing what he says is a wealth of judicial experience .
Mr. Bush said on U.S. radio Saturday that Samuel Alito , currently a federal appeals court judge , has more prior judicial experience than any Supreme Court nominee in more than 70 years .
He also said Judge Alito has the qualities the American people expect - mastery of the law , a deep commitment to justice , and great personal character .
On Friday , the president told reporters he is disappointed that Senate confirmation hearings will not take place until January 9 for the man he hopes will succeed retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
Mr. Bush nominated Judge Alito October 31 , four days after his first nominee Harriet Miers withdrew amid criticism that she lacked judicial experience .
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down his Horse , but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for his own profit .
" Alas ! " said the Horse , " if you really wish me to be in good condition , you should groom me less , and feed me more . "
The commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan says the international community has underestimated the resurgence of the Taleban , partly because the war in Iraq diverted attention and resources .
Lieutenant-General David Richards told BBC Thursday that the international community " took their eye off this ball and a vacuum was allowed to develop " in Afghanistan .
The British general said the war in Iraq absorbed people 's interest and resources for a while .
But he said he is optimistic the insurgency in Afghanistan can be defeated .
Afghanistan in recent months has suffered the worst violence since a U.S.-led attack ousted the Taleban government in December 2001 , in part for failing to hand over Osama bin Laden .
Fighting Thursday left 12 suspected Taleban militants dead in southern Nawzad district .
A coalition soldier was also killed by a landmine in the same province .
China is sending a medical team to its earthquake ravaged southwest to offer reverse sterilization surgery for women who lost their only children in the May 12th quake .
China 's " one-child " policy limits most families to a single child in most cases and many mothers opt for sterilization surgery after giving birth .
Thousands of schools collapsed during the May 12th earthquake and by some estimates more than 6,000 students died .
The offer of reverse sterilization surgery comes as Chinese authorities block access to schools destroyed by the quake in an apparent effort to quell demonstrations by angry , grieving parents .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has annulled a controversial intelligence decree that would have forced Venezuelans to become informants and report on their neighbors or face prison time .
President Chavez took the action Tuesday , saying mistakes were made that must now be corrected .
The move comes just days after Mr. Chavez said the government would amend the law .
The new law , which sparked protests , called for Venezuela 's two main intelligence services to be replaced with new agencies overseen by Mr. Chavez .
It also required Venezuelans to act as informants to secret police and community monitoring groups loyal to the president .
Anyone refusing to provide information faced two to six years in prison .
Human rights groups criticized the law , saying it could silence the president 's critics .
Mr. Chavez had said the law was intended to protect national security and combat U.S. interference .
The United Nations will host a major conference on the long-term recovery efforts for Iraq Saturday at its main headquarters in New York .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will co-chair the ministerial session with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Representatives from 20 nations will participate in the conference , including many of Iraq 's neighbors , such as Iran , Kuwait and Syria .
The meeting will focus on a resolution adopted by the General Assembly last month to expand the U.N. 's presence in Iraq .
Also on the agenda is the International Compact on Iraq , a five-year economic and political recovery strategy .
Mr. Ban told reporters earlier this week he will urge the U.N. member states to follow through on their pledges of support for Iraq .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will attend today 's conference .
The U.S. automotive company General Motors is reporting its largest annual loss .
GM Tuesday announced a deficit of $ 38.7 billion in 2007 .
It posted a fourth-quarter loss of $ 722 million .
In a restructuring effort , the company said it will offer buyouts to 74,000 hourly workers in the United States .
General Motors is the world 's largest automaker .
It says its North American division is struggling .
But overall , GM reported earlier this month that it sold more than two percent more cars this January than it had one year ago .
That increase followed sales declines reported by other major car companies .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino today said GM 's loss is " significant . "
But she cited the company 's restructuring efforts and expressed optimism that the automaker would remain competitive .
Applied excessively , styling gel could cause you to have a hair-raising experience .
U.S. officials in Beijing have announced that Chinese President Hu Jintao plans to visit the United States in April .
Details of his trip have not been released .
The news comes as U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick is in Beijing for talks with top Chinese officials on bilateral relations , security and proliferation issues .
Zoellick met with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao Tuesday , and is expected to meet with Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing .
As part of his three-day trip , Zoellick will also travel to the southwestern city of Chengdu .
Sweden has raised its terror alert level from " low " to " elevated " because of intelligence information the security service said pointed to a " shift " in activities by groups targeting the country .
The Swedish Security Service said Friday there was no imminent threat of an attack .
It said the shift was linked to groups in Sweden , but did not provide any further details .
Sweden 's move comes after a report earlier this week of a potential terror plot being hatched in Pakistan to attack several European capitals .
U.S. and European officials have said that plot was in its initial planning stages and not considered concrete enough to raise the terror threat level in European cities .
Swedish security officials noted that the threat level in Sweden was low compared to other European countries .
The makers of French 's Mustard made the following recent statement :
We at the French 's Company wish to put an end to statements that our product is manufactured in France .
There is no relationship , nor has there ever been a relationship , between our mustard and the country of France .
Indeed , our mustard in manufactured in Rochester , NY .
The only thing we have in common is that we are both yellow .
At least our team is trying to win a game .
Coach went out and set up our new pitching machine the other day .
Unfortunately it beat us 4-1 .
Afghanistan on Tuesday ordered a top European Union official and a United Nations employee to leave the country for allegedly threatening national security .
Government spokesman Humayun Hamidzada said authorities had detained the pair -- one British , the other Irish -- along with their Afghan colleagues who are being investigated .
The spokesman said the two , based in southern Helmand province , were involved in activities outside their mandate .
He said they have been declared persona non grata and have been given 48 hours to leave .
The two men are accused of having meetings with different tribes and groups , including possibly the Taliban .
One European diplomat said there is hope the incident is a result of a misunderstanding .
A U.N. spokesman , Aleem Siddique , said the U.N. mission in Afghanistan is trying to clarify the situation .
Brazilian drug gangs have stepped up their resistance to an army operation in the slums of Rio de Janeiro , clashing with troops during daylight hours .
The two sides exchanged gunfire , with gangs lobbing grenades , in the downtown Providencia shantytown Friday .
A man , woman and young boy were wounded by fragments during the battle .
The army launched the show of force one week ago in response to the theft of 11 weapons from a military barracks .
About 1,500 troops have been mobilized in several slum areas .
While residents from other areas have welcomed the security crackdown , critics have questioned the use of the military in a police role and slum dwellers have complained their lives have been disrupted .
Rio is one of the world 's most violent cities .
Its slums are often the scene of gang and drug-related violence that kills hundreds of people each year .
The U.S. military says five American troops died in Iraq Thursday , including four killed in a roadside bombing .
The military says the blast in eastern Baghdad also injured two soldiers .
The other fatality was of a soldier who died of combat injuries north of Baghdad in Salahaddin province .
In other news , a mortar attack Friday killed one person in the southern Baghdad neighborhood of Zafaraniyah .
In the northern city of Kirkuk , a roadside bomb killed two police officers .
Also , the British military has confirmed the escape of some prisoners at a British-run detention facility near the southern city of Basra .
The Reutersnews agency says 10 prisoners escaped earlier this week by swapping clothes and places with individuals who came as visitors .
The news agency says those who swapped clothes with the prisoners are being held for questioning .
The United States is revitalizing efforts to jumpstart six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
In an interview with Reuters and AFP , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United States has already made Pyongyang " a very good proposal " and is waiting for it to be accepted .
North Korea has so far refused to return for a fourth round of talks , alleging the United States plans to launch military strikes against it - an idea Ms. Rice calls " farfetched . "
Meanwhile , a senior U.S. official is in Seoul for talks with South Korean officials after stops in Tokyo and Beijing .
Michael Green , director for Asian affairs on the U.S. National Security Council , says the Bush administration is holding out hope that Pyongyang will return to the negotiations .
The U.S. ambassador to New Delhi has expressed regret for his remarks that a landmark nuclear deal could fall apart if India votes against sending Iran to the United Nations Security Council for sanctions .
In a statement Thursday , Ambassador David Mulford expressed his sincere regrets , but said his remarks had been taken out of context .
In Washington , the State Department distanced itself from Mulford 's comments , saying he was expressing his own opinion .
Also Thursday , India 's Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran summoned Ambassador Mulford to tell him that his remarks were inappropriate and not conductive to building a strong partnership between the two countries .
The landmark agreement calls for the U.S. to share civilian nuclear technology with India and allow the supply of nuclear fuel to New Delhi .
In return , India is to separate its civilian and military nuclear programs and allow international inspection of its civilian facilities .
Officials in Seoul say the South Korean government has approved a proposal to withdraw one-third of the country 's troops from Iraq , while extending the remaining soldiers ' deployment by a year .
President Roh Moo-hyun 's Cabinet endorsed the withdrawal of 1,000 troops during the first half of next year .
Remaining members of the 3,200-strong South Korean contingent in Iraq would remain there until December 2006 .
After a review by Mr. Roh , the troop-reduction bill is expected to go before Parliament by Wednesday .
South Korea 's troops have been assigned to relief and rehabilitation efforts in the northern Iraqi town of Arbil since 2004 .
After the United States and Britain , Seoul 's troops make up the third-largest force in Iraq .
The United Nations says that restoring tens of thousands of degraded wetlands around the world could help reduce the threat of a bird flu pandemic .
Preliminary findings of the report were released Tuesday during a conference at the U.N. Environment Program headquarters in Nairobi , Kenya .
The report says the loss of wetlands is forcing many wild birds into alternative habitats like farm ponds and paddy fields .
It says these habitats increase the risk of the birds spreading avian flu to domestic birds like chickens .
The U.N. agency says current efforts to curb the spread of the disease , like isolation or destroying birds , are likely quick fixes that offer limited short-term benefits .
Bird flu has killed more than 100 people since 2003 , mostly in East Asia .
The disease also has been detected in birds in parts of Africa , the Middle East and Europe .
A CRAB , forsaking the seashore , chose a neighboring green meadow as its feeding ground .
A Fox came across him , and being very hungry ate him up .
Just as he was on the point of being eaten , the Crab said , " I well deserve my fate , for what business had I on the land , when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for the sea ? '
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness .
The United States and France are moving closer to a deal on a United Nations resolution calling for an end to the fighting in Lebanon .
In New York Friday , U.N. Security Council President Nana Effah-Apenteng said American and French diplomats have taken the lead in drafting the resolution .
But he said talks may continue through Monday to resolve remaining differences on the best way to stop the fighting .
The truce resolution has been stalled by U.S. / French differences over whether a cease-fire should precede deployment of peacekeeping troops along the Israeli-Lebanese border .
In a sign of the increasing urgency of stopping the violence between Israel and Hezbollah , President Bush and French President Jacques Chirac both discussed the issue with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Friday .
Iraqi authorities say 50 suspected insurgents have been detained in connection with Sunday 's suicide car bombings in the nation 's two holiest Shi'ite cities , Najaf and Karbala .
Hospital officials say the death toll from the carnage has risen to 66 - at least 52 lives lost in Najaf and 14 in Karbala .
More than 140 people were wounded by the explosions .
Shi'ite Muslim leaders have appealed for calm , saying such attacks are clearly attempts to ignite sectarian violence and prevent Iraq 's first post-Saddam elections , scheduled to take place in six weeks , on January 30 .
Shi'ite leaders are urging their followers not to resort to revenge attacks , but to focus on the upcoming national elections .
Indonesia has added more than 7,000 people to the death toll from last month 's earthquake and tsunami , bringing the total number of dead in that country to nearly 174,000 .
Welfare Minister Alwi Shihab said Saturday that an estimated 100,000 people are still missing .
He added that the death toll may rise as officials begin focusing on rebuilding the devastated province .
Mr. Shihab also repeated the government 's call for separatist rebels to resume peace negotiations .
Meanwhile , Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels have accused the government of obstructing aid deliveries to tsunami-affected areas under rebel control - a charge officials deny .
Rebel leaders met with Norwegian Foreign Minister Jan Petersen and another peace envoy in the rebel stronghold , Kilinochchi Saturday to discuss the disaster .
Mr. Petersen is in Sri Lanka for talks aimed at reviving peace efforts between the rebels and government , and assess the needs of tsunami-hit areas .
Incoming BP head Robert Dudley is expected to travel to Russia next week for the first time since fleeing the country in 2008 , signaling a thaw between BP and its Russian partner TNK-BP .
Dudley is the former chief executive of TNK-BP and will travel to Moscow with outgoing BP chief Tony Hayward .
The Financial Times reports their discussions with Russian counterparts will likely include the sale of Venezuelan assets from BP to TNK-BP , to help meet the cost of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill .
Dudley was compelled to leave Russia in 2008 in a dispute over control of TNK-BP .
He officially replaces Tony Hayward October 1 .
The European Parliament , the legislative arm of the European Union , has approved members of a new EU executive commission after nearly three weeks of negotiations .
The new lineup was approved early Thursday by a wide margin .
The vote means incoming commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso will likely take office Monday .
After the vote , Mr. Barroso thanked the parliament for the strong vote of confidence and said he recognizes the responsibility that implies .
The newly-elected commission members were nominated by Mr. Barroso .
The commission had been expected to be in place late last month , but Mr. Barroso withdrew his first nominees when parliament objected to some of them .
Thousands of Palestinian police have begun deploying in the southern Gaza Strip .
Palestinian authorities say security forces headed for two of the most volatile areas Friday - the refugee camps of Khan Younis and Rafah .
Militants there have launched rocket and mortar attacks at Israeli troops and Jewish settlements .
Shortly after the Palestinian security move , Israeli army chief General Moshe Yaalon ordered his troops to halt operations in all areas of the Gaza Strip where Palestinian police are deployed .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Thursday conditions are right for a " historic breakthrough " in the Middle East peace process because of steps taken by the new Palestinian leadership .
Mr. Sharon told a group of Israeli businessmen , Israel would be willing to advance the peace process if Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is able to stop terror attacks .
Survivors in southern Egypt say a candle fell over on a stage set late Monday , sparking a fire in a crowded theater that killed at least 31 people and injured about 30 others .
Witnesses say the fire in the city of Beni Suef spread quickly across the stage , triggering a stampede of spectators trying to exit the burning building .
Authorities say the one-storey theater building - attached to a state-run culture center - burned to the ground within an hour .
The fire is the worst in Egypt since a blaze aboard a crowded train near Cairo killed more than 350 people in 2002 .
The African Union 's Peace and Security Council says that Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo should stay in power after his mandate expires until new post-war elections can be organized .
In a statement Thursday following crisis talks on Ivory Coast , AU leaders recommended President Gbagbo stay on for one year and called for the appointment of a new prime minister .
The president 's mandate ends October 30 - the day an election was to have taken place in Ivory Coast .
The election has been delayed indefinitely after the warring sides failed to implement key steps to organize the vote .
Several peace deals have failed to take hold and Ivory Coast remains divided between rebels who control large swaths of territory in the north and the government in the south .
The director of the International Atomic Energy Agency , Mohamed ElBaradei , has stressed the importance of worldwide efforts to guarantee the security of nuclear materials , as he accepted the Nobel Peace Prize .
At ceremonies in Oslo , Norway , Mr. ElBaradei stressed the importance of the security of the human family .
He said world security strategies have not caught up with the security threats the world faces .
In accepting the prize for himself and his organization , Mr. ElBaradei noted that 15 years after the end of the Cold War removed divisions in Europe , the divisions between rich and poor countries still remain .
He expressed hope that globalization will bring the world community together in resolving problems .
Other Nobel prizes are being awarded in Stockhlom , Sweden , Saturday .
Literature Prize winner Harold Pinter will not attend because of health problems .
Tim Nardiello has been reinstated as the U.S. skeleton coach shortly after an arbitrator found no evidence to support claims that he sexually harassed two team members .
The U.S. Bobsled and Skeleton Federation board lifted Nardiello 's suspension during a meeting on Monday .
The decision was effective immediately .
Nardiello is hoping to rejoin the team for the season 's final skeleton World Cup in Altenberg , Germany , on Thursday and Friday .
Despite the decision , the U.S. Olympic Committee still controls whether Nardiello will coach the four American sliders at the Turin Olympics , which open on February 10 .
Also Monday , the best U.S. hope for men 's skeleton gold , Zach Lund , was publicly warned but not suspended by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency over a failed drug test this season .
A gauge of future U.S. economic activity shows the recession is likely to continue another three to six months before recovery begins .
Monday 's report from a business group , the Conference Board , says its index of leading indicators fell 0.3 percent in March .
Economists watch stock prices , unemployment claims , building permits and other factors to predict economic activity in the near future .
Some indicators are not falling as fast as they had been , prompting some experts to predict the economy will begin to recover late this year .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say troops killed 24 Taleban fighters in a seven-hour battle in the country 's restive south .
A coalition statement said the fight happened Wednesday in the Sangin district of Helmand province .
Two coalition soldiers were wounded .
Meanwhile , Amnesty International said Taleban insurgents are deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan to instill fear and exert control over the population .
The London-based rights group said civilians are increasingly facing suicide attacks , abductions and beheadings .
The organization said Taleban militants have a deliberate policy of killing teachers , abducting aid workers and burning school buildings .
Amnesty said at least 756 civilians were killed in 2006 , mostly from roadside bombs and suicide attacks .
The United Nations warns Haiti could see a resurgence of violence as the nation gears up for presidential and parliamentary elections .
In a report issued Tuesday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says Haiti is at a critical juncture , as the country prepares for its first set of elections since the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in February , 2004 .
He says the security environment has improved in recent months , but the elections process would still benefit from outside assistance on security measures .
The report says elections must not be tainted by candidates seen by the public as criminals , or by funds of dubious origin .
Elections were scheduled for November this year , but officials say the date could be pushed back to December due to delays in preparation .
The New York Timessays international inspectors are requesting access to two secret Iranian military sites , where intelligence suggests Tehran could be developing nuclear weapons .
The newspaper says inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency have seen satellite photographs that indicate high explosives are being tested .
According to the Times , several sources , including IAEA member countries , diplomats and weapons experts provided intelligence about the Iranian military sites .
This week , Iran agreed to suspend uranium enrichment activities , staving off a U.S. push to bring the matter to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions over Tehran 's alleged nuclear weapons program .
But the Iranian government says it has not abandoned its right to enrich uranium .
Officials in Pakistan say suspected pro-Taleban militants have killed an elderly tribal leader for allegedly spying for U.S.-led forces operating in neighboring Afghanistan .
The officials said Saturday they found the bullet-riddled body of Rahim Jan in the tribal northwestern region of North Waziristan .
He was 70 years old .
A note found on the body said anyone else caught for spying would face a similar fate .
The volatile North Waziristan region is a known hideout for Taleban remnants .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf signed a ceasefire accord Tuesday with tribal militants in the region .
Under the deal , Pakistan 's military will stop its crackdown in the border region if the militants disarm or expel foreign al-Qaida-linked fighters and stop attacks within Pakistan and in Afghanistan .
A British newspaper says one of its reporters has disappeared in Iraq and it fears he has been kidnapped by gunmen .
The Guardian newspaper says Rory Carroll , a 33-year-old Irishman , was on assignment in Baghdad when he vanished earlier Wednesday .
The paper issued an appeal for information about his whereabouts .
Meanwhile , the British defense ministry reports that a British soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast late Tuesday in the southern city of Basra .
And the U.S. military says a roadside bomb also killed one American soldier and wounded two others late Tuesday south of Baghdad , near Iskandariyah .
The new violence was reported as Iraqi election officials continue counting and auditing results from Saturday 's referendum on the constitution .
Witnesses in Somalia say heavy fighting between Islamist insurgents and Ethiopian troops has killed at least five people in the capital .
The latest fighting began after Islamic rebels attacked an Ethiopian military base in Mogadishu .
Witnesses say several civilians were killed by stray bullets and mortar fire .
Ethiopian troops entered Somalia two years ago to help the interim government fight an Islamist movement that was threatening to take over the country .
Somalia has been continuously torn by conflict since the fall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
The blast occurred at 8:20 am as President Rugova 's motorcade was headed to a meeting with European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana .
There was no one seriously injured .
One person was injured .
The president was not injured .
There was flying glass and a shop window was blown out .
And the police are saying that was apparently detonated by remote control .
Mr. Rugova went on with his regular schedule and said that this proves that there are still elements that want to destabilize Kosovo .
The head of the U.N. 's nuclear agency is calling on Iran 's Arab neighbors to play a greater role in resolving the dispute between Tehran and the West over Iran 's nuclear program .
International Atomic Energy Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei Tuesday accused Arab nations of " sitting on the fence , " and urged them to engage in dialogue .
Speaking in Vienna , Elbaradei said Iran " could be a positive force in the region ; it could also be a source of conflict . "
Several European powers and the U.S. accuse Tehran of secretly seeking nuclear weapons , a charge Iran denies .
The IAEA says Tehran is hampering its efforts to fully inspect its nuclear program and resolve the dispute .
Elbaradei also welcomed Washington 's recent turnabout at the IAEA , in which it promised to join in talks with other agency board members with Iran about the standoff .
Masked assailants with grenades and automatic weapons attacked a wedding party in southeastern Turkey , killing 45 people and wounding at least six others .
Turkish officials said the attack occurred Monday in the village of Bilge about 600 kilometers from Ankara .
The wounded were taken to the hospital in the nearby city of Mardin .
Soldiers cut off the roads leading to the village as they searched for the gunmen .
Officials said they were not sure of the motive for the attack , which took place at the wedding of the daughter of a village official .
Interior Minister Besir Atalay said there was no apparent link to terrorism .
Turkey 's NTV television said the fighting may have involved rival members of state-sponsored militia set up to combat Kurdish separatist guerrillas .
Other reports suggested the violence was linked to a clan feud .
International relief officials have welcomed the agreement by India and Pakistan to open their heavily-militarized boundary in divided Kashmir to help survivors of this month 's devastating earthquake .
The two governments say crossings will be opened at five points starting November 7 to allow people to cross in both directions on foot .
Priority will go to families separated by the de~facto border .
A U.N. humanitarian coordinator in the quake zone , Rashid Khalikov , called the agreement a good step that will help extend aid to people in isolated areas .
But with a bitter Himalayan winter approaching and millions of people homeless or needing shelter , aid workers fear hunger , disease , diarrhea and injuries that are not treated could kill thousands more .
Some 200,000 people are still without any humanitarian aid three weeks after the quake that killed about 55,000 people , most of them in Pakistani Kashmir .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has issued a defiant message to U.S. President George Bush , warning that the United States will not be able to attack Iran .
Mr. Ahmadinejad said Wednesday that Mr. Bush 's era has " come to an end . "
The Iranian president also mocked what he called Mr. Bush 's desire to attack Iran , saying the U.S. leader will not be able to harm " even one centimeter " of the country .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was speaking during a visit to the central Iranian city of Shahr-e-Kord .
On Tuesday , President Bush and European Union leaders met in Slovenia and warned of additional steps to pressure Iran to stop its controversial nuclear program .
The United States and five other major powers also are offering Iran new incentives to suspend its nuclear work .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana will visit Tehran later this week to formally present that offer .
United Nations officials say new fighting has been reported between Congolese troops and dissident soldiers in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
The U.N. mission says Sunday 's violence occurred near the town of Kanyabayonga , which is held by dissident army units made of former rebels .
Tens of thousands of people have fled the area since clashes started more than a week ago .
Dissident soldiers are opposed to a government decision sending thousands of reinforcements to restore order in eastern Congo .
Kinshasa ordered the deployment after neighboring Rwanda warned it may send troops to attack Rwandan Hutu fighters in eastern Congo .
Rwanda blames the militants for the country 's 1994 genocide .
Saturday , U.N. officials said foreign troops have recently crossed into eastern Congo , but did not confirm if they were Rwandan soldiers .
The presidents of Afghanistan and Iran have opened a new road between their countries that they hailed as a symbol of the bilateral cooperation needed to restore peace and stability to the region .
Iran agreed to build the 123-kilometer road between its Dogharoun region and Afghanistan 's western Herat province that officials say is a key source of trade for Afghanistan .
In his remarks , Iranian President Mohammad Khatami said Iran desires a stable , modern and free Afghanistan .
He also said that his government is studying more than 30 road-building projects in Iran to further expand trade to Afghanistan and Central Asia .
Visiting Afghan President Hamid Karzai thanked Iran for building the $ 60 million highway and emphasized that the reconstruction of war-torn Afghanistan will also help its neighbors .
President Karzai used the new highway to return home and end his two day visit .
A new medical report says secondhand smoke can be just as harmful as smoking , and separate sections for smokers and nonsmokers in restaurants and bars do not help .
The U.S. Surgeon General , America 's top medical official , released the report Tuesday .
It says only smoke-free buildings and public places really protect nonsmokers from disease-causing agents in tobacco smoke .
The report says children are particularly vulnerable to secondhand smoke .
It says children in homes where parents smoke are at increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome , lung infections and more severe asthma .
A 2005 report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that secondhand smoke causes some 3,000 deaths each year from lung cancer , and 46,000 deaths from heart disease .
Secondhand smoke is also blamed for 430 infant deaths annually in the United States .
The leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization has urged militants to end attacks against Israel , saying such violence " harms our national interest . "
The PLO executive committee made the appeal Sunday just hours after Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon gave his military a free hand against militant groups in Gaza .
Mr. Sharon accused newly-elected Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas of doing nothing to curb attacks on Israelis .
The PLO statement said violence by militant groups gives Israel an excuse to obstruct Palestinian stability .
Palestinian officials say Mr. Abbas will meet with militants in Gaza Wednesday to urge them to agree to a cease-fire that must be reciprocated by the Jewish state .
Israeli police say a Palestinian suicide bomber has critically wounded two Israeli security guards in the Israeli city of Beersheba .
Police say the bomber detonated his explosives outside the city 's main bus station during the morning rush hour .
There has been no immediate claim of responsibility .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas condemned the bombing - the first such attack since Israel began withdrawing Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip earlier this month .
Meanwhile , the Israeli cabinet has approved the deployment of Egyptian police along Egypt 's border with Gaza .
Under an agreement with Cairo , Egypt is to position 750 border police on the Egyptian side to replace Israeli troops trying to block cross-border smuggling .
Israel says all of its forces in Gaza will leave the border area by the end of September .
Hamas ' political leader says the Islamic group will not renew a truce with Israel that expires at the end of this year .
At a rally in a Palestinian refugee camp near the Syrian capital Friday , Khaled Mashaal said Hamas would not enter a new truce while the Palestinian people are preparing for a new round of conflict .
Later , Mr. Mashaal told al-Jazeera television that the current truce would not be affected , but that calls for extending it are unrealistic .
He accused Israel of carrying out targeted assassinations , arrests and airstrikes in violation of the truce .
Israel says such actions are in self-defense .
The Associated Press reports the Palestinian Authority said Mr. Mashaal 's statement was " irresponsible " and a violation of the truce .
Once one of the wealthiest of the Yugoslav republics , Croatia 's economy suffered badly during the 1991 - 95 war as output collapsed and the country missed the early waves of investment in Central and Eastern Europe that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall .
Between 2000 and 2007 , however , Croatia 's economic fortunes began to improve slowly , with moderate but steady GDP growth between 4 % and 6 % led by a rebound in tourism and credit-driven consumer spending .
Inflation over the same period has remained tame and the currency , the kuna , stable .
Nevertheless , difficult problems still remain , including a stubbornly high unemployment rate , a growing trade deficit and uneven regional development .
The state retains a large role in the economy , as privatization efforts often meet stiff public and political resistance .
While macroeconomic stabilization has largely been achieved , structural reforms lag because of deep resistance on the part of the public and lack of strong support from politicians .
The EU accession process should accelerate fiscal and structural reform .
While long term growth prospects for the economy remain strong , Croatia will face significant pressure as a result of the global financial crisis .
Croatia 's high foreign debt , anemic export sector , strained state budget , and over-reliance on tourism revenue will result in higher risk to economic stability over the medium term .
Afghan officials say seven people were killed in eastern Afghanistan Saturday when the vehicle they were driving hit a roadside bomb .
The blast occurred in the eastern province of Kunar near the Pakistani border .
The victims were security guards working for a road construction company .
Authorities do not know who was behind the attacks .
Taliban militants waging an insurgent campaign against the government in Kabul have been blamed for similar incidents in the past .
Also today , a suicide bomber blew himself up in an attempted attack in the western Farah province .
Officials say there were no other casualties .
Burkina Faso ( formerly Upper Volta ) achieved independence from France in 1960 .
Repeated military coups during the 1970s and 1980s were followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s .
Current President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987 military coup and has won every election since then .
Burkina Faso 's high population density and limited natural resources result in poor economic prospects for the majority of its citizens .
Recent unrest in Cote d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of several hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find employment in neighboring countries .
A New York court has sentenced former Colombian drug kingpin Alberto Orlandez Gamboa to 40 years in prison for heading a cartel that smuggled large quantities of cocaine into the United States .
Authorities announced the sentence Thursday , for the 49-year-old Orlandez Gamboa , who once boasted of being among Colombia 's top 10 drug lords .
The former kingpin , who was extradited to the United States several years ago , had previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy , drug smuggling and money laundering charges .
Officials say Orlandez Gamboa led an organization of about a dozen large-scale traffickers in Barranquilla , Colombia , who smuggled tons of cocaine into the United States and other countries .
Colombia is the world 's largest cocaine producer .
Most of the cocaine produced there is shipped to the United States .
Israel has charged nuclear whistleblower Mordechai Vanunu with violating the terms of his release from prison .
Vanunu was freed from an Israeli jail last year after serving an 18-year sentence for revealing secrets of Israel 's nuclear program to a British journalist in the 1980s .
Under terms of his release , the former Israeli nuclear technician was barred from contacting foreigners or leaving the country .
He was re-arrested in November , after granting another interview in which he said Israel has up to 200 atomic warheads , a neutron bomb , and hydrogen bombs .
Israel has never admitted or denied having a nuclear arsenal .
Reuters news agency reports a new indictment includes charges that Vanunu , a Christian convert , also violated release terms by trying to visit the West Bank in December to attend a midnight Christmas religious service .
U.S. military officials in Afghanistan say coalition troops have killed three Taleban militants , including a top commander , during a firefight in southeastern Paktika province , near the Pakistani border .
The officials say an Afghan woman and two children were also killed in the gunfight that broke out late Tuesday when coalition troops tried to arrest the militants who were hiding in a village .
The military says among the dead was Taleban commander Raz Mohammed , who was implicated in several attacks against coalition forces .
Wednesday , five suspected insurgents were killed in a clash with U.S. troops in nearby Khost province .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan are hunting Taleban loyalists who have been waging a low-level insurgency since the hard-line Islamic regime was ousted in 2001 .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has announced the renovation of the island 's electricity system , an effort to put an end to energy blackouts that have plagued Cubans for the past two years .
In a speech Tuesday , Mr. Castro said the nation 's massive energy plants will be replaced by smaller , regional ones and backed up by generators .
Cuba 's energy problem reached crisis point in 2004 when a key electrical plant broke down .
Since then , Cubans have suffered sporadic blackouts , often during the hottest months when demand for air conditioning is high .
The blackouts and power surges damage some appliances , leaving food to rot in the summer heat .
Pop musician John Mayer will headline an upcoming concert to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Save The Music .
Founded by the VH1 television network to promote music education in U.S. public schools , the organization has reportedly provided $ 34 million worth of instruments to schools around the country .
Scheduled for September 20 at New York City 's Lincoln Center , the concert will also feature 50 of the students the organization has helped over the past decade .
The wife of one of two foreign journalists kidnapped in Gaza City Monday has appealed for their release .
The wife of an abducted New Zealand cameraman Wednesday called the kidnappings pointless , saying the men had been sharing the Palestinians ' stories with the world .
The other kidnapping victim is an American .
Palestinian security forces are searching for the two journalists who were working for U.S. media outlet Fox News .
No group has claimed responsibility for the abductions .
On the political front , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of the Fatah movement and the ruling group Hamas have agreed to resume talks on forming a unity government .
Previous talks collapsed over Hamas 's refusal to implicitly recognize Israel .
In another development , hospital sources say an Israeli air strike early Wednesday destroyed a building in southern Gaza , killing two people .
The Israeli army says it targeted a weapons storage facility .
Indian police say one person was killed and at least 26 others wounded by an explosion in Indian-controlled Kashmir Wednesday .
It is unclear what caused the blast that sparked panic in a busy market area of Rajouri town , about 100 miles north of Jammu , in southern Kashmir .
So far , none of the rebel groups operating in Kashmir have claimed responsiblity .
Militant separatists have been fighting Indian rule in Kashmir since 1989 .
Thousands have died in violence over the disputed region , and India and Pakistan have fought two wars over it .
But violence has eased since the nuclear rivals began moving toward peace more than a year ago .
The African Union 's peace and security council has called on all African countries to impose sanctions against Togo over the military 's installation of President Faure Gnassingbe .
The council Friday backed sanctions by the West African group ECOWAS , and urged the AU 's 53 members to follow suit .
ECOWAS has agreed to slap an arms embargo and travel ban on Togolese officials .
Also Friday , the vice president of Togo 's ruling party , George Dahoun Gignor , told VOA that Mr. Gnassingbe must step down , saying the embattled leader has no choice .
However , the ruling party Friday backed Mr. Gnassingbe as its candidate in presidential elections expected within 60 days .
President Gnassingbe told cheering party members he accepted the nomination .
He took power earlier this month after the death of his father , Gnassingbe Eyadema .
U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell holds talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem Thursday as he launches a new round of indirect peace talks .
Mitchell met Wednesday in Ramallah with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat says the talks focused on the borders of a future Palestinian state .
The Palestinians want a state in areas Israel captured in the 1967 war , with East Jerusalem as a capital .
They are demanding Israel stop building settlements in these areas .
Mr. Netanyahu has accepted the idea of a Palestinian state , but with conditions and without East Jerusalem .
Mitchell plans to shuttle back and forth between both sides for as long as four months to help narrow differences .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says he is deeply disappointed in the decision of Burma 's military rulers to extend the house arrest of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi for another six months .
The statement by Mr. Annan says the continued detention is not in the interest of Burma 's national reconciliation and democratization .
Aung San Suu Kyi , the head of the National League for Democracy , has spent 10 of the past 16 years in detention , mostly under house arrest .
Her current sentence was due to expire this month .
Mark Farmaner of Burma Campaign UK told VOA 's Burmese Service that Aung San Suu Kyi 's detention was extended because the junta 's ruling generals hope the world will forget about her .
The United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions on Burma for its suppression of the pro-democracy movement .
The Indian government has lodged a protest against Pakistan over its plans to build a dam in the disputed region of Kashmir , with the help of China .
India 's foreign ministry said Friday the dam is being built in part of the Himalayan valley that is " illegally " occupied by Pakistan .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed by both .
Last month , Pakistan and China signed a memorandum of understanding for the construction of the Bunji hydroelectric project , which is aimed at generating electricity for Pakistan .
The country is dealing with power shortages .
The project has caused concern in India over Pakistan 's growing ties with China .
Friday , Pakistan summoned an official with the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to reject the India 's protest of the dam .
Israeli troops shot and killed three Palestinians near the Israel-Gaza border fence at the Kissufin crossing , Tuesday .
The Israeli army said soldiers opened fire after spotting suspicious people near the fence .
Israeli soldiers arrested at least five suspected Palestinian militants after a brief exchange of gunfire near another Gaza border crossing .
One of the militants was wounded .
The Israeli military said the firefight broke out when soldiers surrounded a house where the militants were holed up .
Palestinian witnesses say a large number of soldiers backed by tanks and helicopter gunships took part in the operations at Karni - the main terminal for transport of goods between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
Witnesses said Israeli tanks and bulldozers also destroyed farmlands near the town of Khan Yunis .
Israeli forces have been carrying out brief incursions into Gaza since launching an offensive in late June to stop cross-border rocket attacks and rescue a captured Israeli soldier .
The Genoese built a fortress on the site of present day Monaco in 1215 .
The current ruling Grimaldi family first seized temporary control in 1297 , and again in 1331 , but were not able to permanently secure their holding until 1419 .
Economic development was spurred in the late 19th century with a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a casino .
Since then , the principality 's mild climate , splendid scenery , and gambling facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and recreation center .
Voters in Luxembourg have approved the proposed European Union Constitution in a referendum Sunday - reversing a trend set by France and the Netherlands last month .
With all the votes counted , the charter was approved by nearly a 13-point margin , of about 57 to 43 percent .
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker , a staunch supporter of the pact , had promised to resign if it was not approved .
This was the first referendum on the constitution since French and Dutch voters rejected it last month .
EU leaders then put the constitution issue on hold , and Britain , Denmark , Portugal , Sweden and Finland postponed planned votes .
All 25 member nations must approve the constitution before it can take effect .
The first round of historic trade negotiations between Australia and China is under way in Sydney .
A free trade agreement between the two countries would boost China 's effort to be accepted as a full market economy and would provide Australia with access to the world 's largest marketplace .
The chairman of China 's National People 's Congress told trade forum members Monday that relations between the two countries have never been better .
China is Australia 's third-largest trading partner .
China supplies consumer goods and clothing while key Australian exports include iron ore , wheat , petroleum and coal .
Australia already has negotiated free trade agreements with the United States , Thailand , Singapore and New Zealand .
China is mired in increasingly bitter trade disputes with the United States and the European Union .
Tibet 's spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , has voiced his support for pro-democracy protests in Burma and is urging Buddhist members of the country 's military government to show more compassion .
In an interview with VOA in Washington Tuesday , the Dalai Lama said that he admired the recent efforts of Buddhist monks in Burma to push for democracy and added that he felt that their cause was just .
The Dalai Lama also urged Buddhist members of Burma 's military government to use the religion 's teachings of " compassion " and " love " when confronting such situations of crisis .
The Dalai Lama spoke with VOA after meeting with President Bush in Washington on Tuesday .
The Burmese government 's bloody crackdown of pro-democracy protests in Burma last month left at least 10 people dead .
Thousands of monks and other activists have been arrested , and many more are believed to have been killed .
Police in France and Germany have encountered small , peaceful protests in sharp contrast to the violent clashes in Strasbourg Thursday evening ahead of NATO 's 60th anniversary summit .
Several hundred demonstrators protested calmly in the German town of Baden-Baden as U.S. President Barack Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel met at the town hall .
French police strengthened their cordon around the city of Strasbourg after detaining 300 people during clashes between protesters and police .
Officials say about 100 demonstrators are still in custody .
Police used tear gas on the demonstrators , who smashed windows and set fire to trash bins as security forces sought to block a protest march toward central Strasbourg .
German and French authorities have deployed about 25,000 police to maintain security around the two towns .
The seventh round of peace talks for Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have been postponed , but it is not clear when they will resume .
The African-Union sponsored talks were due to begin in the Nigerian capital , Abuja , Monday .
African Union officials are quoted as saying the delay could range from several days to an indefinite postponement .
AU spokesman Nureddin Mezni told the French News Agency , AFP , the talks were postponed because of logistical reasons .
The last round of talks ended in October with little progress amid escalating violence in Darfur and infighting within Darfur 's main rebel group .
Saturday , a senior U.S. official , Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs , Jendayi Frazer , met with rival leaders of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army to urge them to present a united front at the next round of peace talks .
British police have arrested a suspect wanted in Spain in connection with last year 's March 11 train bombings in Madrid in which nearly 200 people died .
Police identified the man as 39-year-old Spaniard Moutaz Almallah Dabas .
They said they were acting on an extradition warrant from Spain when they took him into custody at Slough , west of London .
Mr. Almallah Dabas is wanted for alleged terrorist offenses linked to the Madrid train bombings .
He is due to appear in London 's Bow Street magistrate 's court on Monday .
On Friday , Spanish police arrested his brother , Mohannad Almallah Dabas , who holds a Syrian passport , also in connection with the Madrid train bombings .
The absence of Burma 's military leader at an Independence Day dinner this week is generating more concern about his health .
Diplomats say 73-year-old General Than Shwe did not attend Thursday evening 's dinner because he was having medical tests in Singapore .
It was the first time since Than Shwe took power in 1992 that he did not host the annual dinner .
Instead , the military government 's second-in-command , General Maung Aye , hosted the event this year .
Diplomats say they were told that Than Shwe 's medical tests in Singapore were routine .
However , it is believed that he suffers from hypertension , diabetes and other ailments .
The military government in the past has dismissed rumors that the ailing senior leader is gravely ill .
The U.S. space agency NASA says the Phoenix Mars probe landed in an ideal location to search for evidence that the planet could support life .
At a news conference Tuesday NASA scientists said the probe is located in a valley in the polar region believed to contain subterranean ice .
Phoenix is designed to dig through the Martian soil and into the layer of ice to look for the basic chemical components essential to supporting life .
NASA says there were few problems with the landing Sunday , though a radio glitch on a spacecraft orbiting Mars will likely delay the scheduled mission by about one day .
A team of Canadian scientists reports clear skies at the landing site , with temperatures ranging between negative 30 and negative 80 degrees Celsius , and with 32 kilometer per hour winds .
Early results from Taiwan 's parliamentary election show pro-independence parties in the lead .
President Chen Shui-bian 's Democratic Progressive Party and its ally , the Taiwan Solidarity Union , are about three seats ahead of the opposition Nationalist alliance , with about a third of the votes counted .
President Chen is hoping his pro-independence coalition will win a majority in Taiwan 's 225-seat legislature .
A coalition led by the Nationalist Party , which advocates unification with Beijing , currently controls 51 percent of the legislature .
A total of 386 candidates vied for 176 directly elected seats .
The remaining 49 seats will be allocated based on the proportion of total votes each party receives .
Full election results are expected by 9:00 p.m. local time .
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has met with his Russian counterpart , Sergei Ivanov , for talks on non-proliferation and other issues of bilateral interest .
At a joint news conference in Washington Tuesday , Secretary Rumsfeld said the government that evolves after Iraq 's elections later this month will be a broadly represented administration .
He said polls indicate all groups , including Sunnis , want to participate in the January 30 election .
Mr. Rumsfeld also rejected news reports saying the United States plans to send special forces into Syria in the hunt for militants .
The two officials also discussed defense and security cooperation .
Mr. Ivanov also is meeting today at the White House with President Bush .
Morocco annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara ( formerly Spanish Sahara ) in 1976 and claimed the rest of the territory in 1979 , following Mauritania 's withdrawal .
A guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Morocco 's sovereignty ended in a 1991 UN-brokered cease-fire ; a UN-organized referendum on the territory 's final status has been repeatedly postponed .
The UN since 2007 has sponsored intermittent talks between representatives of the Government of Morocco and the Polisario Front to negotiate the status of Western Sahara .
Morocco has put forward an autonomy proposal for the territory , which would allow for some local administration while maintaining Moroccan sovereignty .
The Polisario , with Algeria 's support , demands a popular referendum that includes the option of independence .
Niger President Mamadou Tandja has approved Prime Minister Seyni Oumarou 's new cabinet , with several top ministers returning to posts they held before a no-confidence vote toppled the previous government last month .
Prime Minister Oumarou took office this week after Niger 's parliament voted out Prime Minister Hama Amadou 's government on May 31 .
Mr. Amadou 's opponents accused him of complicity in a corruption scandal in Niger 's education ministry .
Two former education ministers have gone to jail since an audit found hundreds of thousands of dollars were missing .
Among those keeping their seats in the 31-member cabinet announced Saturday are the Foreign Minister Aichatou Mindaoudou , Interior Minister Albade Abouba and Economy and Finance Minister Ali Mahamane Lamine Zeine .
Clinton 's mother prayed fervently that Bill would grow up and be president .
So far , half of her prayer has been answered .
Former women 's world number-one tennis player Martina Hingis of Switzerland will play in her first professional tournament in more than two years in Thailand next month .
Hingis has agreed to play the Volvo Women 's Open in Pattaya .
She says she will use the tournament to raise money for Thai charities that help women and children who have suffered from abuse , homelessness and illness .
Hingis won 76 singles and doubles titles during her career , including five Grand Slam singles crowns .
She retired at age 22 in 2002 due to ankle problems .
The U.S. Army 's top general says the Army is planning for the possibility of keeping the current number of troops in Iraq - well over 100,000 - for four more years .
General Peter Schoomaker told the Associated Press Saturday he was confident the Army could continue to provide the current number of forces in Iraq for several more years .
President Bush , in his weekly radio address , expressed confidence in what he called the " ultimate triumph of our cause . "
In Saturday 's Democratic radio address , former Senator Max Cleland of Georgia said Mr. Bush 's plan for victory is not working .
Mr. Cleland said the United States needs a strategy to win in Iraq or an exit strategy to leave .
Mr. Bush has said there will be no timetable for withdrawing the troops , because that would signal the United States is weak .
Nepal 's royal government has imposed a day-time curfew in Kathmandu and its suburbs on Friday after an opposition alliance said it will hold a pro-democracy rally on that day .
Police have also rounded up nearly 80 political activists and cut off cell phone communications ahead of the rally .
But political activists say hundreds of people have been detained .
India , Japan , the United Nations and the European Union have expressed concern about the arrests and restrictions , calling them regrettable .
Nepal 's Home Minister Kamal Thapa says the arrests were a protective move to prevent Maoist rebels from infiltrating the protest and inciting violence .
An alliance of seven political parties has called for the rally despite a government ban and Maoist rebels have been urging support for the protest .
The king fired the elected parliament and seized absolute power last February .
Iran is insisting it will resume uranium conversion this week , after rejecting European incentives to end its nuclear fuel work .
Speaking Sunday in Tehran , a Foreign Ministry spokesman said work at Iran 's Isfahan nuclear plant will begin once the International Atomic Energy Agency installs surveillance cameras .
The IAEA says inspection equipment will be in place by mid-week .
British , French and German negotiators have called an emergency meeting of the IAEA on Tuesday to issue Tehran a final warning against restarting the fuel program .
Western governments suspect Iran 's nuclear activities are aimed at developing atomic weaponry .
Tehran insists its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
If the stand-off continues , the Europeans say they will ask the U.N. Security Council to consider imposing economic sanctions to force Tehran to end its fuel work .
A THIEF who had brought a suit against his accomplices to recover his share of the plunder taken from an Honest Man , demanded the Honest Man 's attendance at the trial to testify to his loss .
But the Honest Man explained that as he was merely the agent of a company of other honest men it was none of his affair ; and when the officers came to serve him with a subpoena he hid himself behind his back and wiled away the dragging hours of retirement and inaction by picking his own pockets .
Bosnian police have arrested a former Bosnian Serb police officer suspected of genocide in the 1995 massacre of 8,000 Muslim men and boys .
Authorities Monday said Dragan Crnogorac has been arrested by the State Investigation and Protection agency in the northern town of Banja Luka .
The 38-year-old is accused of personally taking part in the executions of Bosnian Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica , in what is considered the worst atrocity in Europe since World War Two .
Prosecutors say Crnogorac was a member of Bosnian Serb forces that captured the U.N.-protected Srebrenica enclave on July 11 , 1995 , at the end of Bosnia 's three-year war .
The Bosnian war crimes court has put dozens of Bosnian Serbs on trial for complicity in the Srebrenica killings .
U.S. lawmakers have approved a measure to double the number of U.S. troops in Colombia to 800 .
The government of Colombian President Alvaro Uribe welcomed the support in its fight against the drug trade and left-wing Marxist rebels .
But human rights groups criticized the increase , saying more U.S. troops could escalate the violence in the South American country .
The U.S. Congress also voted to increase the number of American civilian contractors in Colombia from 400 to 600 .
The United States is providing $ 1.3 billion for " Plan Colombia , " an initiative launched by Colombia 's government to fight the illegal drug trade , protect human rights , and expand economic development .
The White House says President Bush will travel to Argentina , Brazil and Panama next month .
A statement issued Wednesday said the president will visit Argentina from November 3 through 5 to meet with President Nestor Carlos Kirchner , and to attend the Summit of the Americas in Mar del Plata .
That summit will bring together 34 democratically elected heads of state and government from North , Central and South America .
The White House says Mr. Bush will promote open markets , free trade and what it calls the " consolidation of democracy " in the region .
Afterward , Mr. Bush is to visit Brazil on November 5 and 6 at the invitation of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .
He then is expected to go to Panama to meet with President Martin Torrijos Espino .
Chinese health officials say a 44-year-old woman from southern China has died from the deadly strain of the bird flu virus .
A statement on the Web site of the Health Department of Guangdong province identified the woman as a migrant worker from Shanwei City in Sichuan province .
The statement said the woman tested positive for the H5N1 strain of the disease and that she became ill after contact with dead poultry suspected of having the virus .
It also said that no one else who has come into contact with the woman has shown any symptoms of the virus .
China 's central Health Ministry in Beijing has yet to comment on the case .
China has reported two other bird flu deaths this year .
The World Health Organization says China has had 19 bird flu deaths and 29 cases since the outbreak began in 2003 .
Iraqi authorities say at least eight Iraqi prison guards and detainees have been killed in a shootout at a high-security jail in Baghdad .
Authorities say a prisoner attempting a jail break grabbed an assault rifle from a guard and opened fire .
A U.S. soldier was one of at least four people wounded .
The prison is said to hold several hundred detainees including some foreigners held as suspected terrorists .
Meanwhile , demonstrations against alleged fraud in the recent parliamentary elections are continuing in mainly Sunni Arab regions of Iraq .
Protesters are demanding a re-vote in some areas and an international probe into hundreds of ballot complaints .
Initial vote results show that Shi'ite candidates won 130 seats in the 275-seat parliament .
Final results are expected next month .
Nepal 's Maoist rebels have called for an indefinite nationwide strike as part of their campaign against the royalist government .
A statement released Saturday said the strike will begin April 3 .
Rebel leaders say the strike will be preceded by a blockade of the capital , Kathmandu , on March 14 .
King Gyanendra seized absolute power a year ago , saying the move was necessary to curb the Maoist rebellion .
Some 13,000 people have died in the insurgency since 1996 .
Elections held earlier this month were marred by low voter turnout and allegations by several countries , including India , Japan , Britain and the United States , who all said the vote was flawed .
Seven major opposition parties boycotted the vote , and the election sparked almost daily anti-government demonstrations .
Police in Brussels have clashed with several hundred demonstrators protesting President Bush 's visit to the Belgian capital .
Police arrested several demonstrators during the sometimes violent clashes but there are no reports of serious injuries .
Authorities used trucks to push demonstrators back from European Union headquarters , where Mr. Bush was meeting with EU leaders .
Demonstrators carried signs and chanted slogans criticizing what they called Mr. Bush 's " warmongering " policies , including the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
The French News Agency reports that rallies against Mr. Bush 's European visit also took place in several cities in Germany , where Mr. Bush is scheduled to arrive on Wednesday .
Ukraine 's president , Victor Yushchenko , has called for closer ties between his country and Ukrainians living abroad in an effort to revive the economy and solidify democracy .
President Yushchenko Friday presented his concept of cooperation to representatives of ethnic Ukrainians attending a three-day World Forum conference in Kiev .
He said about 20 million Ukrainians live in more than 60 countries .
Ethnic Ukrainians abroad often have stronger nationalistic tendencies than those at home .
The president urged Ukrainians to abandon the idea of a federal state , which some political groups have proposed for the country divided between Russian-speaking and Ukrainian-speaking populations .
Mr. Yushchenko said federalism would further split Ukraine .
An avalanche in a mountainous area of northern Pakistan has killed 25 people who were digging for precious stones .
Officials say the incident happened Thursday in the remote Kohistan region , in Pakistan 's Northwest Frontier province .
Authorities say the victims were exploring mines and searching for precious stones when they were buried by the avalanche .
Rescuers rushed to the site but were only able to save one person .
Kohistan is about 350 kilometers northeast of Peshawar , the provincial capital .
A district court in Belarus has sentenced a political opposition figure to 15 days in jail on charges resisting police forces .
Syarhei Antonchyk was sentenced Friday - one day after several other opposition figures were given similar sentences , all of which will keep them imprisoned until after the presidential election , set for March 19
Thursday , a Minsk court sentenced Vintsuk Vyachorka , leader of the Belarus Popular Front , for taking part in what it called an unsanctioned demonstration .
Police detained him and other campaign staff members of opposition presidential candidate Alexander Milinkevich Wednesday after an opposition rally in the Belarusian capital .
President Alexander Lukashenko has ruled the former Soviet republic since 1994 , and is seeking a third term .
The West has criticized his human rights record and quashing of political opposition .
The United States has called Mr. Lukashenko Europe 's last dictator .
The U.S. military says it has opened a criminal probe into the death of a relative of Iraq 's ambassador to the United Nations .
The son of Ambassador Samir Sumaidaie 's cousin was killed in June as U.S. Marines searched his home in western Iraq .
A U.S. military statement Sunday says the top Marine commander in Iraq has referred the case to the Naval Criminal Investigative Service .
Mohammed Sumaidaie was killed near Haditha on June 25 .
Weeks later , the ambassador called the killing a crime and demanded a full investigation .
Meanwhile , Iraqi Kurdish , Sunni and Shi'ite negotiators are meeting today in an 11th-hour effort to agree on a constitution ahead of a Monday night deadline .
Negotiators have been unable to bridge differences over demands for political autonomy and the role of Islamic law in post-war Iraq .
Reed International PLC said that net income for the six months ended Oct. 1 slipped 5 % to # 89.7 million ( $ 141.9 million ) , or 16 pence a share , from # 94.8 million ( $ 149.9 million ) , or 17.3 pence a share .
The British paper , packaging and publishing concern , said profit from continuing lines fell 10 % to # 118 million from # 130.6 million .
While there were no one-time gains or losses in the latest period , there was a one-time gain of # 18 million in the 1988 period .
And while there was no profit this year from discontinued operations , last year they contributed # 34 million , before tax .
Pretax profit fell 3.7 % to # 128 million from # 133 million and was below analysts ' expectations of # 130 million to # 135 million , but shares rose 6 pence to 388 pence in early trading yesterday in London .
Reed is paying an interim dividend of 4.6 pence , up 15 % from 4 pence a year earlier .
Sales fell 20 % to # 722 million .
Earnings were hurt by disposal of operations in its restructuring , Reed said .
A century-old rabbi has declared Israel 's Western Wall off-limits to Jews on their holiest day of the week because he says security cameras at the holy site are desecrating the Sabbath .
Yosef Shalom Eliashiv says that use of the closed-circuit surveillance cameras violates the Jewish practice of refraining from operating electronics on the weekly holy day .
A rabbi overseeing religious activities at the wall says talks with Jerusalem police are under way to find a compromise .
The 100-year-old rabbi is highly revered among ultra-Orthodox Jews .
His opinion has wide influence among them .
The Western Wall is at the base of a compound known to Jews as the Temple Mount , which is Judaism 's holiest site .
Muslims also consider the compound one of their holiest sites , calling it the Noble Sanctuary .
India will proceed with plans to help build a pipeline from Iran even though that nation is facing international sanctions because of its nuclear activities .
India reaffirmed it 's commitment to the project Saturday during Indian Foreign Minister Natwar Singh 's visit to Tehran .
He is expected to leave the country on Sunday .
Following talks with his Iranian counterpart ( Manouchehr Mottaki ) , Mr. Singh said he hopes oil ministers from Iran , India and Pakistan can hold a joint meeting to finalize the pipeline deal before the end of the year .
Mr. Singh also announced plans for a joint commission meeting in March 2006 to review bilateral relations between India and Iran .
The United States and the European Union suspect Iran is using its nuclear program to develop atomic weapons , which Iran has denied .
Top-seeded Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain has advanced to the semifinals of the Canberra International women 's tennis tournament in Australia .
Medina Garrigues beat Ekaterina Bychkova of Russia , 6-3 , 6-4 on Wednesday to advance to the final four .
She will play number four Shahar Peer of Israel , who bounced back from a first set loss after a three-hour rain delay to beat Japan 's Aiko Nakamura , 2-6 , 6-3 , 6-0 .
Sixth-seeded Catalonia Cassation of Colombia also made it into the semifinals .
She was leading 5-2 when her opponent , Julia Scruff of Germany , withdrew due to heat illness .
Cassation will face South Korea 's Cho Yoon-jeong , who advanced with a 4-6 , 6-3 , 6-3 win over Melinda Czink of Hungary .
Pakistani officials say a clash between security forces and Taliban militants has killed at least 10 people in the northwestern Swat Valley region .
Officials say the fighting erupted when militants attacked a paramilitary convoy late Tuesday in the Kabal area , a Taliban stronghold .
They say security forces later foiled a suicide attack , destroying an explosives-laden vehicle in the same area .
Officials say at least five security personnel and five militants were killed in the fighting .
Since August , Pakistan 's military has been locked in ongoing battles against Taliban and al-Qaida militants in parts of the country 's rural northwest .
The Pakistani government is under pressure from neighboring Afghanistan and the United States to take on militants based along the Afghan border .
European Union nations have summoned Iranian ambassadors to protest the detention of British Embassy staff in Tehran .
Officials say EU members agreed to the move Friday at a meeting in Brussels .
EU officials are considering additional measures including visa bans on Iranian officials .
A top Iranian cleric Friday said that some British Embassy staff will be put on trial for allegedly playing a role in post-election demonstrations .
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati said during a prayer sermon that some embassy employees confessed to instigating unrest .
Jannati is close to Iran 's supreme leader .
Nine British Embassy staffers were arrested in Tehran last Sunday .
Some were freed , but the British government says two are still in custody .
Britain 's foreign office expressed concern Friday and said it is investigating reports that the employees face trial .
Israeli warplanes have carried out air strikes in the Gaza Strip , after two Israeli soldiers were wounded Tuesday in a mortar bomb attack by Palestinian militants .
VOA Jerusalem Correspondent Luis Ramirez talks about the raid :
Local sources say the air strikes targeted smuggling tunnels in southern Gaza and a site near the town of Khan Younis close to the Egyptian border .
There were no immediate reports of casualties .
Palestinians use tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border to sneak weapons and goods into the Palestinian enclave .
On Monday , Israeli troops killed a Palestinian militant in the Gaza Strip near the Israeli border .
The Israeli military said the militant was killed when troops opened fire on Palestinians trying to plant an explosive device close to the border .
A HUNTSMAN , returning with his dogs from the field , fell in by chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden with fish .
The Huntsman wished to have the fish , and their owner experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag .
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day 's sport .
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some time the same exchange day after day .
Finally a neighbor said to them , " If you go on in this way , you will soon destroy by frequent use the pleasure of your exchange , and each will again wish to retain the fruits of his own sport . "
Abstain and enjoy .
The United Nations says unidentified gunmen in Sudan 's western Darfur region have ambushed and wounded three members of an African Union team .
A U.N. spokeswoman said Wednesday , two of those wounded were AU monitors .
The third victim was a Sudanese translator .
The spokeswoman said one of the monitors was shot in the neck during the attack Tuesday north of the town of Nyala .
She said the other two were only lightly hurt and that all three are now in stable condition .
Last week , a U.S. development official was shot in the face while working in Darfur .
She survived the attack .
The African Union has a force of at least 2,000 personnel in Darfur , including troops and cease-fire monitors .
The force has limited power to protect civilians .
U.S. congressional leaders are close to finishing work on a compromise budget bill that includes money for the U.S.-led war in Iraq , without a deadline to withdraw the troops .
The $ 500 billion spending package would include at least $ 70 billion to fund military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan , while providing $ 11 billion more than what President Bush requested for domestic programs favored by Democratic Party representatives .
The agreement on the Iraq war funding represents the latest failed attempt by many congressional Democrats to impose a timeline that would bring U.S. troops out of Iraq .
President Bush has adamantly rejected any timelines , and lawmakers in his Republican Party have firmly backed his efforts .
The measure is expected come to a vote in the House of Representatives early next week .
A British newspaper reports that United Nations peacekeepers in southern Sudan are facing allegations of raping and sexually abusing children as young as 12 .
The Daily Telegraph says it based its story on an internal report by the United Nations Children 's Fund .
The newspaper says the alleged abuse started shortly after U.N. peacekeepers arrived in southern Sudan in March , 2005 .
One 13-year-old alleged victim said U.N. personnel enticed him into their car with money , sexually abused him , then tossed him out with no cash .
A British peacekeeping official has already denied the charges .
But a senior U.N. official has told the Associated Press that the allegations will be treated seriously and investigated .
U.N. officials fired one peacekeeper and suspended several others without pay in 2005 for allegations of bribing women and girls for sex in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Pro-Taleban militants have released at least 30 of nearly 250 Pakistani soldiers abducted near the Afghan border in late August .
The militants freed the soldiers early Saturday in the South Waziristan tribal region .
Last month , pro-Taleban militants handed over at least 25 of the captured soldiers to a tribal council of elders ( or jirga ) near Wana , the main town in South Waziristan .
The militants have demanded that Pakistani security forces release detained fighters and pull out of the tribal region in return for freeing more soldiers .
The capture of the troops has been an embarrassment for Pakistan 's army as it struggles to contain a recent upsurge in violence near the Afghan border .
The violence follows the collapse of a peace deal in July between Pakistan 's government and pro-Taleban tribesmen .
Ukraine and Russia have signed an agreement to create a joint venture to deliver Russian and Central Asian gas to Ukraine .
The agreement ended a bitter price dispute between the two countries , which led to a brief Russian cut off of natural gas deliveries to Ukraine New Year 's Day .
Under the deal , the new venture , UkrGazEnergo will oversee gas sales to Ukrainian consumers .
It will be co-owned by Naftogaz Ukraine and RosUkrEnergo , which is controlled by Russia 's giant natural gas monopoly Gazprom and a group of unidentified investors .
The agreement calls for Ukraine to pay Russia $ 95 per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas - nearly twice as much as the previous rate but less than the amount originally charged by Gazprom .
A suicide bomber targeted a police station in Pakistan 's capital , Islamabad , Monday evening , killing himself and one officer .
Officials say police tried to stop the bomber at a point before he detonated his explosives .
It is not clear how many people were wounded in the attack .
Militants have staged a wave of attacks over the past few years in Pakistan , including several in the capital .
The government has recently signed two separate peace deals with Islamist groups in the tribal regions near the border with Afghanistan .
The country marked its national holiday , Pakistan Day , on Monday .
The holiday commemorates the 69th anniversary of the movement by Muslims on the Indian sub-continent to create a separate country .
Former Colombian hostage Ingrid Betancourt has met with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez to discuss Venezuelan support for freeing other hostages held by rebels in Colombia .
Betancourt met with Mr. Chavez Monday at the presidential palace in Caracas .
The French-Colombian politician has been on a tour of South American countries to solicit regional support for persuading rebels with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , to release their captives .
The rebels are holding some 700 hostages for ransom or political leverage .
Betancourt 's tour , which began last month , included her native country as well as Ecuador , Brazil , Argentina , Peru , Chile , Bolivia , and now Venezuela .
Betancourt was a presidential candidate in Colombia when she was captured by FARC rebels in 2002 .
She was held for more than six years before being rescued by the Colombian military in July .
A European Union court has upheld sanctions imposed on U.S. software giant Microsoft by a European anti-trust commission .
The Luxembourg-based European Court of First Instance announced the decision Wednesday .
Microsoft said after the ruling it still hopes to reach a settlement with the anti-trust authorities .
In March , the EU competition commission ruled Microsoft had abused its position in the market by only offering a version of Windows with Media Player .
The commission said this shut out competitors who produced servers and media player programs .
It ordered the company to market a version of Windows without Media Player software and to share more information with competitors .
Turkey 's Foreign Ministry has denied that it canceled this week 's international air force exercise over opposition to Israel 's participation .
The ministry said Monday the cancellation was " not political , " and urged Israeli officials to approach the situation with common sense .
Israeli military officials said Saturday Turkey canceled the Anatolian Eagle exercise because it wanted to exclude the Israeli air force from taking part in the drill .
The military exercise also was scheduled to include U.S. , Italian and NATO forces .
Turkey and Israel have had close ties , but their relations have been uneven since Israeli forces clashed with Hamas fighters in the Gaza Strip at the beginning of this year .
Turkey 's prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has criticized the Israeli campaign in the Palestinian territory .
Turkey has also played a role in trying to restart peace talks between Israel and Syria , but those contacts broke down last year .
Turkey 's state-run news agency says a court has charged four army officers in connection with an alleged plot to overthrow the government .
The Anatolia news agency said Saturday that the officers - two colonels and two lieutenants - had been charged with belonging to a terrorist organization which , the ruling party says , was seeking to topple Turkey 's Islamic-rooted government .
The agency did not release the names of those charged .
On Friday , Anatolia reported that investigators had found a weapons cache full of missile launchers , plastic explosives , and other weaponry at a state-owned farm outside the capital , Ankara .
Eighty-six people , including former army officers , leftist politicians and journalists , are already on trial in the case .
Prosecutors accuse them of planning assassinations and bombings to sow chaos in Turkey , forcing the army to step in and overthrow the government .
Russia 's state-owned oil firm Rosneft has installed one of its senior executives as head of Yuganskneftegas , a key unit of dismantled oil empire Yukos .
Rosneft said Friday it has registered its ownership of Yuganskneftegas and named Vladimir Bulba as company chief .
Last Sunday , the mysterious Baikal Group picked up the Yukos subsidiary at a government auction for about half of what analysts said it was worth .
In turn , Rosneft bought Baikal last week .
Next month , Rosneft and another state-owned energy firm , Gazprom , are expected to merge .
The Russian government ordered the sale of Yukos assets to recover what it says are more than $ 25 billion in back taxes by the company .
Critics of the Kremlin have called the move payback for political activities by Yukos founder Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who is now in prison .
The Kremlin has denied the charge .
The first members of a U.N. peacekeeping mission for southern Sudan have arrived in the country to help implement a January peace deal .
Twelve Nepalese soldiers flew into the central town of El-Obeid Wednesday , one of the main operational centers for aid agencies working in the south .
The soldiers are part of an eventual deployment of 10,000 peacekeeping troops .
The force will come mostly from Bangladesh , China , Egypt , India , Kenya and Zambia .
The conflict in southern Sudan lasted more than two decades and claimed more than two million lives , mostly from war-induced famine and disease .
It is separate from the conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
More than 2,000 African Union troops have been deployed there to monitor a cease-fire .
Negotiations to win the freedom of 19 South Korean hostages held in Afghanistan have stalled .
Face to face talks between South Korean officials and Taleban militants broke down last week after the kidnappers released two female hostages in what they called a gesture of goodwill .
Taleban spokesmen say South Korean negotiators have asked for more time .
The militants have already executed two male hostages and are threatening to kill the rest if the Afghan government does not release Taleban prisoners .
Kabul has ruled out a prisoner swap .
Taleban militants abducted the group of 23 Koreans more than a month ago as they traveled by bus to southern Afghanistan to do charity work on behalf of their Christian church .
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance .
Being naturally great mimics of men 's actions , they showed themselves most apt pupils , and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks , they danced as well as any of the courtiers .
The spectacle was often repeated with great applause , till on one occasion a courtier , bent on mischief , took from his pocket a handful of nuts and threw them upon the stage .
The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts forgot their dancing and became ( as indeed they were ) Monkeys instead of actors .
Pulling off their masks and tearing their robes , they fought with one another for the nuts .
The dancing spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of the audience .
- " Not everything you see is what it appears to be . "
Indonesia 's communications minister says local broadcasters will soon be banned from airing live news provided by foreign broadcasters , such as the Voice of America and the British Broadcasting Corporation .
Communications and information minister Sofyan Djalil said Monday the ban will take effect February 5 when new media regulations are implemented .
Under the regulations , foreign news and music broadcasts must be edited locally .
Indonesian officials say that will ensure that the content meets community standards .
It remains unclear what the standards will be , but last week , Sofyan told a VOA correspondent the rules may be ambiguous .
The new regulations were approved in November , but after an outcry by media companies and lawmakers , the government and parliament postponed implementing them .
Discussions continue in parliament , but it is unclear how long the talks will go on , or what effect they may have on the media regulations .
Pope Benedict encourages priests to embrace new digital media to create deeper forms of relationship with faithful across greater distances Pope Benedict has urged Roman Catholic priests to use the Internet to spread the word of God .
In his message Saturday , the pope encouraged priests to embrace the new digital media to create deeper forms of relationship with the faithful across greater distances .
But the pontiff also warned that Catholic clergy should be less notable for their media skills than for their vocation .
The pope 's message comes as the church prepares for its annual World Communication Day , May 16 .
The Vatican has long had a Web site in several languages .
It has recently created a news channel on the Youtube video sharing site and a Facebook networking site Pope2You .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says Central American democracies must work together to fight drug trafficking , smuggling , hostage-taking , terrorism and gang violence .
Mr. Rumsfeld is hosting a two-day conference in Miami on regional security cooperation with defense ministers from seven Central American countries .
The Defense Department says the meeting is meant to strengthen Central America 's group identity and capabilities .
In addition to the topics Mr. Rumsfeld listed , ministers are discussing maritime security and the formation of a regional peacekeeping unit and a rapid response force for coping with disasters .
The ministers may also address the role improved security can play in promoting economic development .
Participants include ministers from Guatemala , Honduras , El Salvador , Nicaragua , Belize , Costa Rica , and Panama .
Mexico and several other countries were expected to send observers .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has arrived in the United States , seeking President Bush 's strong endorsement for Israel 's scheduled withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
The two leaders are to meet Monday at the president 's Texas ranch , for talks also expected to focus on Israel 's plan to expand its largest West Bank settlement .
Israel insists on building 3,500 new homes in the Maale Adumim settlement near Jerusalem .
But U.S. officials have said the plan is at odds with the U.S.-backed " roadmap " for peace between Israel and the Palestinians .
In Jerusalem , Israeli police deployed in force Sunday to head off ultranationalist Jews who threatened to occupy a site sacred to Muslims and Jews .
Authorities say about 200 protesters were blocked from entering the hill-top compound known to Muslims as the Nobel Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount .
The head of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) has called on the United States to release some of its oil reserves to help reduce world oil prices .
Purnomo Yusgiantoro , who is also Indonesia 's energy minister , did not say whether the United States has responded to the request .
The United States has hundreds of millions of barrels of oil in its strategic petroleum reserve .
The reserve has been tapped on several , exceptional occasions .
World oil prices have risen sharply this year , and currently stand at over $ 55 a barrel .
Muslims around the world are preparing for the start of Islam 's holy month of Ramadan .
Some countries begin observances Monday .
The timing of the start of the holiday varies in Muslim communities and countries depending on the sighting of the new moon .
Ramadan , the ninth month of the Islamic calendar , marks the time 1,400 years ago when Muslims believe the words of Islam 's holy book , the Koran , were revealed to the Prophet Muhammed .
During Ramadan , Muslims fast from sunrise to sundown - abstaining from eating , drinking , smoking and sexual relations .
The fast is broken at sundown each day with a feast called " iftaar . "
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says four coalition and four Afghan soldiers have been wounded in separate explosions in the eastern and southern parts of the country .
A military spokesman says the coalition troops were wounded when their vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb in the Khogyani district of eastern Nangarhar province .
No details of the soldiers ' nationalities nor the extent of their wounds were given .
Hours later , in southern Zabul province , a similar explosion wounded four Afghan soldiers on patrol .
Meanwhile , Afghan President Hamid Karzai has ordered an investigation into the killings of eight Afghans , including a child , by U.S.-led coalition forces in Kunar province on Thursday .
Afghan and U.S.-led forces say the dead were suspected al-Qaida militants , but local authorities say they were civilians who had no connection to the terror network .
Gunmen in Iraq attacked a local police chief 's convoy Saturday , wounding him and two others .
The police chief was traveling near Mosul when militants fired on the motorcade .
The attack sparked a clash between police and militants that left one officer dead and at least one other person wounded .
Another policeman was killed and at least two others wounded when a roadside bomb exploded near their patrol outside Fallujah .
The Palestinian parliament has passed a new electoral law , removing an obstacle that had delayed elections for a new legislature .
The new law creates a mixed electoral system , with half the lawmakers to be chosen by districts and the other half to be chosen from a national slate of party candidates .
Differences over the voting system led to the postponement earlier this month of elections that had been scheduled for mid-July .
There is no word yet on a date for re-scheduled elections .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton will lead U.N. efforts to promote reconstruction in South Asian countries hit by December 's tsunami , but will not play a role in ending conflicts in Indonesia and Sri Lanka .
On Wednesday , U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said he misunderstood Mr. Clinton 's mandate when he told reporters earlier the former president would also try to make progress in resolving conflicts in those nations .
Mr. Eckhard said Mr. Clinton will focus on maintaining the world 's interest in the vital recovery and reconstruction efforts following the devastating tsunami .
Mr. Clinton said in a statement he is looking forward to taking up the post once he returns from a trip to the region later this month with former president George H.W. Bush .
Three Romanian journalists kidnapped in Iraq nearly two months ago have returned to Bucharest , one day after their release .
A military plane carrying the journalists , reporter Marie-Jeanne Ion , cameraman Sorin Miscoci , and newspaper reporter Eduard Ovidiu Ohanesian , returned home Monday from Baghdad .
Iraqi insurgents kidnapped the journalists , along with their Iraqi-American translator Mohammed Monaf , in Baghdad on March 28 .
The militants threatened , in a videotape , to kill the hostages by April 27 unless Romania withdrew its troops from Iraq .
That deadline passed without word on their fate .
Romanian President Traian Basescu said that the continuing violence in Iraq had made it increasingly difficult to maintain contact with the kidnappers .
The incident sparked protests in Romania , with demonstrators taking to the streets of Bucharest , calling for the withdrawal of Romanian troops from Iraq .
A Kurdish news agency says Turkish warplanes have bombed Kurdish rebel positions in northern Iraq .
The Firat news agency quotes Kurdish party officials as saying Turkish jets hit the Hakurk region Wednesday near the borders of Iraq , Iran and Turkey .
It said there were no reports of casualties .
A spokesman for the outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , confirmed the strike .
There was no official confirmation from the Turkish military .
Turkey accuses the PKK of using strongholds in northern Iraq to launch attacks .
The military has conducted several air strikes and at least one ground incursion into Iraq against the rebels this year .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast for nearly 25 years .
That violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey , the United States and other nations have designated the PKK a terrorist group .
Election officials in Haiti have scheduled runoff elections for a new legislative assembly for late April .
The election was originally scheduled for March 19 , but was delayed following widespread street protests that accompanied last month 's presidential elections .
Rene Preval was declared president after his supporters staged angry demonstrations accusing election officials of manipulating the vote count to deny him a first-round victory .
The delay in holding the legislative runoffs forced the postponement of Preval 's inauguration , which was scheduled for March 29 .
The European Union under the rotating presidency of Slovenia says it will seek to move forward with accession talks with Turkey .
Speaking in the Slovenian capital , Prime Minister Janez Jansa told reporters Monday that he will seek the total support of all EU member-countries for expanded accession talks .
Turkey is an official candidate for EU membership .
But its entry bid has roused opposition , most notably from France .
President Nicolas Sarkozy has said repeatedly that largely-Muslim Turkey should be offered a privileged partnership rather than full membership .
The internationally recognized Greek-led government of Cyprus also opposes Turkish EU membership .
Turkey has refused to open trade and travel links with the Cyprus government , as part of its ongoing territorial dispute over the divided island .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say fighting in the northern city of Mosul has calmed after an intense operation Tuesday to regain police stations and government buildings taken by insurgents last week .
Officials Wednesday said that some pockets of resistance remain as coalition forces work to secure Iraq 's third-largest city .
Earlier today , U.S. and Iraqi forces pounded insurgent positions in Fallujah , in an effort to oust the remaining fighters more than a week after the launch of an offensive there .
Scattered attacks and car bombings have been reported today in other parts of Iraq , causing an unknown number of casualties .
Meanwhile , family members of CARE International aid worker Margaret Hassan say it appears she has been killed by kidnappers who abducted her last month in Iraq .
World Cup football ( soccer ) champion Brazil has knocked 2006 host Germany out in the semifinals of the Confederations Cup tournament in Nuremberg .
Two goals by Adriano ( in the 21st and 76th minutes ) and a Ronaldinho penalty gave the Brazilians the 3-2 victory .
Brazil had the lead twice at the Frankenstadion , but Germany was able to even the match on a goal from Lukas Podolski ( 23rd minute ) and Michael Ballack 's penalty kick ( in the 48th minute ) .
However , Adriano scored the game winning goal to put Brazil into the final against the winner of Sunday 's semifinal between Mexico and Argentina .
Germany will play the loser of the Mexico-Argentina match for third place in Leipzig .
The final is in Frankfurt Wednesday .
The Vatican has announced that U.S. President George Bush will meet with Pope Benedict in June .
Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said Saturday that the exact date for the private meeting has not yet been set , but it could be around June 9 or June 10 .
President Bush is to travel to Europe in June to attend a summit of the Group of Eight industrialized nations in Germany .
Mr. Bush visited the Vatican in 2005 for Pope John Paul 's funeral .
Iran 's nuclear energy chief says the country has built a new generation of centrifuges , which are used to enrich uranium .
Ali Akbar Salehi , the head of the Atomic Energy Organization , announced the development Tuesday .
Enriched uranium can be used in nuclear fuel for a power plant .
But Western countries suspect Iran is using the ingredient to build a nuclear weapon .
Iran denies this .
Iranian officials are expected to resume negotiations with world powers about their controversial nuclear program next week .
Kazakhstan 's Information Ministry has ordered a popular opposition newspaper to close .
In ordering the closure , the ministry accused the Respublika newspaper of inciting ethnic hatred by publishing an interview with a prominent Russian politician who made disparaging remarks about Kazakhs .
The paper 's deputy editor Galina Dyrdina called the closure order politically-motivated , and vowed to appeal .
The newspaper has been dogged by lawsuits and attacks , including a firebombing .
Government critics in Kazakhstan say the order is part of a crackdown on free media ahead of possible presidential elections in December .
President Nursultan Nazarbayev has ruled the former Soviet Republic since its independence in 1991 , and is expected to run again in December .
American Thomas Schelling Israeli-American Robert Aumann have won this year 's Nobel Prize in Economics for their work on people 's decisions in business and society .
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the one-point-three million dollar prize Monday in Stockholm .
Mr. Schelling and Mr. Aumann were honored for their separate work on " game theory . "
The theory attempts to explain how people make strategic and mathematically-based decisions on matters ranging from trade disputes , crime , and wars to such mundane choices as theater seats .
The Nobel committee says their research goes far beyond economics to global security and arms control .
The final 2005 Nobel Prize to be awarded is in literature .
The date for the prize has yet to be announced .
Broadcasters in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , have gone off the air for 24 hours to protest a government crackdown on independent media .
The four local radio stations still operating went silent Monday .
Their directors say they want to show solidarity with three other stations the government shut down last week .
Authorities have accused Radio Simba , Radio Banadir and Radio Shabelle of making inflammatory and anti-government broadcasts .
The government has also ordered all Somali media houses to register with the government or face closure .
Media advocacy groups like Reporters Without Borders have strongly criticized the moves , saying the government is trying to censor unwelcome news .
The closed stations have reported regularly on the violence in Mogadishu between insurgents and Ethiopian troops backing the Somali interim government .
The fighting over the past 11 months has killed thousands , and prompted hundreds of thousands more to flee the Somali capital .
The U.S. Senate has approved legislation allocating up to $ 4 billion to fight bird flu by stocking up on anti-viral drugs .
The Senate measure passed Thursday also commits money to increase global surveillance of the disease .
The legislation , passed as an amendment to an unrelated military spending bill , now goes to the House of Representatives , where it faces an uncertain future .
Supporters of the measure say the time to act is now , before an outbreak occurs .
U.N officials warn an avian flu pandemic could kill as many as five million people worldwide , and have urged the international community to take an aggressive stand against the disease .
British military officials in Iraq say three British soldiers have been killed in a suspected roadside bombing in the southern part of the country .
The British command says the attack occurred early Saturday in the city of Amarah , north of Basra .
The combat deaths were the first for British forces in Iraq in months .
British forces , based in the mainly Shi'ite south , have suffered far fewer losses than the much larger U.S. force fighting Sunni Arab insurgents and foreign fighters in the rest of Iraq .
Indonesia 's national police chief says one of Southeast Asia 's most wanted men may be dead .
General Sutanto says they hope to confirm the death of Malaysian bomb maker Azahari bin Husin Thursday .
Indonesian police raided a suspected militant hideout in Batu , in East Java Province Wednesday .
At least three people are thought to be dead from the gunbattle and explosions that rocked the house .
Police fear the building may be booby trapped and will wait for daylight before retrieving the bodies and making further investigations .
Witnesses say Azahari bin Husin may have blown himself up rather than be captured by police .
The fugitive terrorist is linked to Jemaah Islamiyah , a group seen as the regional arm of al-Qaida , and is accused of masterminding at least four deadly blasts in Indonesia , including the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people .
One of the most powerful women in U.S. business has been forced out of her job as chief executive of the huge , high-tech Hewlett-Packard company .
Carly Fiorina stepped down Wednesday after six years at the helm , citing differences with the board of directors over the company 's strategy .
HP is the world 's second largest personal computer maker and operates a highly profitable printer business .
Ms. Fiorina pushed HP to merge with rival Compaq , saying the merger would bring increased scale , efficiency , and profit .
But some investors and analysts say the result was disappointing .
Chief Financial Officer Robert Wayman was named interim CEO .
Health officials in China say the number of cholera cases reported on the southern island of Hainan has increased to 51 .
China 's official Xinhua news agency reports the provincial health department saying that 29 of those affected have been treated and released from the hospital .
No deaths from the outbreak have been reported .
On Sunday , authorities sealed the campus of Hainan University after 70 students were hospitalized with intestinal problems .
Health officials say the outbreak began at a village dinner party near Danzhou .
They have blamed heavy floods for creating conditions ripe for the disease .
Cholera is a water-borne disease , which starts with acute diarrhea and can lead to kidney failure .
It is especially dangerous for young children .
Military officials in Russia say six Chechen rebels have been killed in a clash with Russian commandos south of the provincial capital , Grozny .
A military spokesman said Monday Russian forces on an overnight mission Sunday in the North Caucasus region ambushed the guerrillas near two villages , Starye Atagi and Novye Atagi .
A spokesman for the Chechen rebels denies the clash took place and accuses the Russian military of spreading disinformation to discredit a cease-fire called by rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov .
Russian officials have consistently refused to hold any talks with Mr. Maskhadov , whom they call a terrorist and accuse of attacking civilians .
Russian forces have been battling Chechen insurgents for much of the past decade .
The World Health Organization is warning that malaria could become resistant to new drugs unless they are used in combination with a second medicine .
Dr. Pascal Ringwald , a medical officer with the WHO , says it is crucial that the drugs be used correctly .
He says so far , the U.N. health agency has not discovered any resistance , but that it is monitoring the situation closely .
New malaria-fighting drugs , derived from a plant known as Artemisia , have been developed in response to other anti-malaria medicines becoming ineffective as resistance developed .
The WHO says the new Artemisian-based drugs must be used together with older malaria medication , such as mefloquine .
The agency estimates the mosquito-borne disease kills more than one million people every year , most of them young children in Africa .
Israel 's attorney general has ordered a new criminal investigation into Prime Minister Ehud Olmert , who is facing two other police probes .
A Justice Ministry statement says the new probe will focus on political appointments made while Mr. Olmert was trade and industry minister .
The police will also look into suspicions Mr. Olmert assisted his political friends in different public bodies .
The prime minister says the new investigation is unnecessary and will be closed without any results .
Last week , police questioned Mr. Olmert about allegations he tried to steer the sale of government-owned Bank Leumi in 2005 while he was acting finance minister .
Mr. Olmert also is under investigation for his purchase of a Jerusalem apartment in 2004 .
He allegedly received a discounted price in return for helping the builder obtain construction permits from the city government .
Two centuries of Viking raids into Europe tapered off following the adoption of Christianity by King Olav TRYGGVASON in 994 .
Conversion of the Norwegian kingdom occurred over the next several decades .
In 1397 , Norway was absorbed into a union with Denmark that lasted more than four centuries .
In 1814 , Norwegians resisted the cession of their country to Sweden and adopted a new constitution .
Sweden then invaded Norway but agreed to let Norway keep its constitution in return for accepting the union under a Swedish king .
Rising nationalism throughout the 19th century led to a 1905 referendum granting Norway independence .
Although Norway remained neutral in World War I , it suffered heavy losses to its shipping .
Norway proclaimed its neutrality at the outset of World War II , but was nonetheless occupied for five years by Nazi Germany ( 1940 - 45 ) .
In 1949 , neutrality was abandoned and Norway became a member of NATO .
Discovery of oil and gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s boosted Norway 's economic fortunes .
In referenda held in 1972 and 1994 , Norway rejected joining the EU .
Key domestic issues include immigration and integration of ethnic minorities , maintaining the country 's extensive social safety net with an aging population , and preserving economic competitiveness .
French and Iraqi officials say a French engineer kidnapped last month in Baghdad has been freed .
Iraq Interior Ministry officials and police say Bernard Planche was found Sunday near a security checkpoint , west of Baghdad .
Mr. Planche was abducted Thursday from his home in Baghdad .
The kidnappers had threatened to kill him if France did not end what they called its " illegitimate presence " in Iraq .
The engineer 's release comes a day after an American journalist was kidnapped in Baghdad .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says five Marines were killed in separate insurgent attacks in Iraq Sunday and Saturday .
On the political front , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says leaders of the country 's political parties have agreed in principle to form a national unity government .
American classical pianist Martin Berkofsky has long impressed music critics around the world with his firebrand virtuosity .
But as VOA 's Irina Robertson learned when she met recently with Berkovsky , he stopped playing for personal fame 25 years ago and began performing for charitable causes .
Scot Riddlesberger narrates the story .
The World Health Organization says it has confirmed 160 human cases of bird flu worldwide .
A statement from the United Nations health agency Tuesday said 85 of those infected have died , including four people in Turkey .
The WHO also said it is sending a team of specialists to northern Iraq to investigate possible bird flu cases there .
Iraqi health minister said Monday that a girl who died earlier this month in the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniya , near the border with Turkey and Iran , had the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Iraqi officials are on high alert to try to prevent the virus from becoming established .
Authorities are destroying hundreds of thousands of birds and have quarantined a number of people who have symptoms of the disease .
The German economy - the fifth largest economy in the world in PPP terms and Europe 's largest - is a leading exporter of machinery , vehicles , chemicals , and household equipment and benefits from a highly skilled labor force .
Like its western European neighbors , Germany faces significant demographic challenges to sustained long-term growth .
Low fertility rates and declining net immigration are increasing pressure on the country 's social welfare system and necessitate structural reforms .
The modernization and integration of the eastern German economy - where unemployment can exceed 20 % in some municipalities - continues to be a costly long-term process , with annual transfers from west to east amounting in 2008 alone to roughly $ 12 billion .
Reforms launched by the government of Chancellor Gerhard SCHROEDER ( 1998 - 2005 ) , deemed necessary to address chronically high unemployment and low average growth , contributed to strong growth in 2006 and 2007 and falling unemployment .
These advances , as well as a government subsidized , reduced working hour scheme , help explain the relatively modest increase in unemployment during the 2008 - 09 recession - the deepest since World War II - and its decrease to 7.4 % in 2010 .
GDP contracted 4.7 % in 2009 but grew by 3.6 % in 2010 .
In its annual projection for 2011 , the Federal Government expects the upswing to continue , with GDP forecast to grow this year at a real rate of 2.3 % .
The recovery was attributable primarily to rebounding manufacturing orders and exports - increasingly outside the Euro Zone .
Domestic demand , however , is becoming more significant driver of Germany 's economic expansion .
Stimulus and stabilization efforts initiated in 2008 and 2009 and tax cuts introduced in Chancellor Angela MERKEL 's second term increased Germany 's budget deficit to 3.3 % in 2010 .
The Bundesbank expects the deficit to drop to about 2.5 % in 2011 , below the EU 's 3 % limit .
A constitutional amendment approved in 2009 likewise limits the federal government to structural deficits of no more than 0.35 % of GDP per annum as of 2016 .
At least five people have been killed and six others wounded in shootings at two Pakistani military posts in a semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
Security officials say rockets hit a base near Miranshah in North Waziristan before dawn Sunday , killing at least three people , including a soldier , and wounding four .
Later in the same region , Pakistani security forces fatally shot two armed men at a checkpoint and arrested two others , one of whom was wounded .
Pakistan 's army has been trying to clear militants from its tribal regions .
Many of the militants operating in the border areas are al-Qaida-linked fighters who fled Afghanistan after U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban .
Tibet 's spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , has expressed condolences for Pope John Paul , saying he had great respect and admiration for the Catholic leader .
The Dalai Lama said the pope 's experience in Communist Poland helped give him a clear understanding of conditions in Tibet under Chinese rule .
The Tibetan leader said he developed a close personal friendship with the pontiff , after meeting on several occasions .
The Dalai Lama also praised John Paul for his mission to bring peace to the world and his frequent travels , despite the pontiff 's failing health .
He says he and the pope shared a keen interest in promoting harmony among different religious traditions in an effort to spread a unified message of peace .
India and the United States have discussed new areas of cooperation in high-technology , less than a month after Washington lifted restrictions on nuclear technology exports to India .
An Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman said U.S. Undersecretary of State for Commerce Kenneth Juster and India 's Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran have identified four sectors of potential collaboration .
They include biotechnology , nano-technology , advanced information technology and defense .
Nano-technology is used to make micro-miniature equipment by manipulating atoms and molecules .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia , Christina Rocca , will visit India next week to further discuss this cooperation .
The United States imposed sanctions on India and Pakistan after they conducted nuclear weapons tests in 1998 .
Restrictions included the sale of technology that could potentially be used for developing weapons .
Iraqi insurgents have threatened to kill a kidnapped U.S. journalist unless female prisoners in Iraq are released within 72 hours .
The kidnappers made the threat in a new videotape shown Tuesday by Arab satellite broadcaster al-Jazeera .
The tape also showed the journalist , Jill Carroll , speaking , but her voice could not be heard .
Gunmen seized Carroll and killed her Iraqi interpreter in an attack in Baghdad earlier this month .
In Washington , a State Department spokesman said officials are making every effort to secure Carroll 's release .
Meanwhile , gunmen in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk killed at least one person in an attack on the offices of a Kurdish group .
And Iraq 's military called on Iran to release nine coast guard sailors seized in a dispute on the Shatt al-Arab waterway .
Deep into the mountain state of West Virginia , a group of volunteers is determined to restore nature the way it was a century ago , before mining , logging and fires changed the landscape .
To do so , thousands of native trees are being planted .
Producer Zulima Palacio prepared the story .
Pope Benedict says the anniversary of the 2001 September 11 attacks on the United States should be a day to remember all victims of terrorism .
The pope Sunday called for all people to , in his words , " renounce hatred and build a world of justice , solidarity , and peace . "
The Roman Catholic leader made his comments to pilgrims gathered outside his summer residence in Castelgandolfo near Rome to hear his weekly blessing .
A senior NATO official says member nations face a growing threat of attack by long-range missiles .
NATO 's Assistant Secretary General for Defense Investment , Marshall Billingslea , Wednesday urged officials to consider ways to address such a threat , including the creation of a missile defense system .
Billingslea did not say which nations pose a security threat to NATO members , nor did he elaborate upon the current threat level .
The comments came as Billingslea presented a 10,000 page report on the subject of threats and defense systems to NATO officials .
Billingslea says the study , commissioned in 2002 , found that a missile defense shield would be technically and financially feasible .
Three Pakistan cricketers accused of involvement in a match-fixing scandal are returning home .
Lawyers representing test captain Salman Butt , and bowlers Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir said their clients are flying back to Pakistan from Britain Friday .
A British tabloid accused the players of taking bribes to intentionally bowl illegal " no-balls " during a test match against England last month .
British police questioned the players on September 3 , but so far no charges have been brought against them .
Cricket 's world authority , the ICC , suspended Butt , Asif and Amir last week pending its own investigation .
The three maintain they are innocent .
Lawyers said the trio has agreed to continue cooperating with British police and would return to London , if required .
Afghan officials say a suicide bomber has killed seven people , and wounded nearly 30 others in an attack in southeastern Afghanistan .
Police say the attack happened Saturday in the town of Spin Boldak , in the southern province of Kandahar .
Police say the bomber was riding a motorbike when he blew himself up near a busy market .
Officials say he was targeting police officers in the area .
Two policemen were among those killed .
Reuters news service says the Taleban claimed responsibility for the attack .
Taleban militants have carried out numerous attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan as part of their campaign against the government and foreign troops .
The bombing comes as Muslims celebrate the Eid-al-Fitr holiday which marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has rejected U.S. criticism of his anti-drug program , called international help in the fight " half-hearted , " and demanded greater control over U.S. military operations in his country .
Speaking on CNN on the eve of a White House meeting Monday with President Bush , Mr. Karzai also condemned the reported deaths of two Afghan prisoners in U.S. custody .
He called for strict punishment for those who abuse detainees , but added the behavior of a few must not reflect on the United States as a whole .
Mr. Karzai noted that at least 30 percent of the country 's poppy fields have been destroyed and called on international community to step up its own efforts instead of blaming the Afghans .
An exiled Iranian opposition group has accused a well-known Pakistani scientist of giving Tehran weapons grade uranium in 2001 .
Farid Soleiman , a spokesman for the group , National Council of Resistance of Iran , made the comment Wednesday to reporters in Vienna , the home of the International Atomic Energy Agency .
He said the enriched uranium in question was given to Iran by Abdul Qadeer Khan , who built Pakistan 's nuclear bomb .
Mr. Khan ran a global nuclear black market that supplied Libya , North Korea and Iran with nuclear technology until it was shut down this year .
The Iranian opposition group also said Iran has been conducting secret nuclear activities at sites unknown to international inspectors .
International Atomic Energy Agency officials and the government of Iran have yet to respond to the accusations .
A U.S.-based global labor advocacy group says Colombia is the world 's most dangerous country for labor activists .
The AFL-CIO Solidarity Center said in a report released Thursday that more trade union members are killed in Colombia each year than in the rest of the world combined .
The Washington-based non-profit group also said about 4,000 trade unionists have been murdered in Colombia since the mid-1980s and that most of the incidents can be directly linked to the victims ' participation in a labor dispute .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe called the report outdated .
The Colombian leader met Wednesday in Washington with President Bush for talks that covered trade and the fight against illegal drug trafficking .
Both presidents said they hoped soon to finalize remaining details of a free trade agreement between their countries so Mr. Bush can submit it to Congress .
They also pledged to continue working together to defeat the drug trade .
Tourism , commerce , and finance are the mainstays of Andorra 's tiny , well-to-do economy , accounting for more than three-quarters of GDP .
An estimated 9 million tourists visit annually , attracted by Andorra 's duty-free status for some products and by its summer and winter resorts .
Andorra 's comparative advantage eroded when the borders of neighboring France and Spain opened , providing broader availability of goods and lower tariffs .
The banking sector also contributes substantially to the economy .
Agricultural production is limited - only 2 % of the land is arable - and most food has to be imported .
The principal livestock activity is sheep raising .
Manufacturing output and exports consist mainly of perfumes and cosmetic products , products of the printing industry , electrical machinery and equipment , clothing , tobacco products , and furniture .
Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods ( no tariffs ) and as a non-EU member for agricultural products .
In 1959 , three years before independence from Belgium , the majority ethnic group , the Hutus , overthrew the ruling Tutsi king .
Over the next several years , thousands of Tutsis were killed , and some 150,000 driven into exile in neighboring countries .
The children of these exiles later formed a rebel group , the Rwandan Patriotic Front ( RPF ) , and began a civil war in 1990 .
The war , along with several political and economic upheavals , exacerbated ethnic tensions , culminating in April 1994 in a state-orchestrated genocide , in which Rwandans killed up to a million of their fellow citizens , including approximately three-quarters of the Tutsi population .
The genocide ended later that same year when the predominantly Tutsi RPF , operating out of Uganda and northern Rwanda , defeated the national army and Hutu militias , and established an RPF-led government of national unity .
Approximately 2 million Hutu refugees - many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to neighboring Burundi , Tanzania , Uganda , and Zaire .
Since then , most of the refugees have returned to Rwanda , but several thousand remained in the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ; the former Zaire ) and formed an extremist insurgency bent on retaking Rwanda , much as the RPF tried in 1990 .
Rwanda held its first local elections in 1999 and its first post-genocide presidential and legislative elections in 2003 .
Rwanda in 2009 staged a joint military operation with the Congolese Army in DRC to rout out the Hutu extremist insurgency there and Kigali and Kinshasa restored diplomatic relations .
Rwanda also joined the Commonwealth in late 2009 .
The Sri Lankan military says suspected Tamil Tiger rebels have launched a series of attacks against security forces in the eastern part of the country , killing four people and wounding at least 19 others .
Officials say the attacks occurred Thursday in the cities of Batticaloa and Trincomalee .
The attacks came shortly after the government in Colombo extended the state of emergency throughout the country for another month , despite protests by minority Tamil legislators .
Parliament has been extending the state of emergency by one month at a time since August , following the assassination of Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar .
The government accuses Tamil rebels of carrying out the killing .
But they deny the charge .
Pakistani officials say security forces backed by helicopter gunships attacked a militant training camp near the Afghan border Tuesday , killing at least three rebels .
Army spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad said after receiving reports about the facility in North Waziristan , tribal elders were sent to the area to tell the organizers to shut it down .
The general said fighting began when militants refused to meet the peace delegation and opened fire on them .
Pakistan reached a peace deal with pro-Taleban militants in North Waziristan last year to stop attacks on security forces inside Pakistan and Afghanistan and expel foreign militants .
Local tribal leaders are responsible for overseeing the deal 's implementation .
The top United Nations envoy to Haiti has congratulated the country on its successful holding of local , municipal and legislative elections .
A U.N. statement says more than 300,000 voters in 25 communities voted in 69 centers and 770 polling stations to choose their representatives .
The statement says all polling stations opened on time with the help of the U.N. Stabilization Mission in Haiti , known as MINUSTAH , and the Haitian national police .
Last month , the U.N. said it had mobilized nearly 600 members of its staff in Haiti to support the country 's electoral process .
The head of electoral support for the U.N. mission , Marc Plum , said the elections would show the international community that democracy is still alive in Haiti .
Haiti is the Western Hemisphere 's poorest country and has been plagued by violence .
Witnesses say Syrian security forces have clashed with gunmen thought to be Islamist militants in the northwestern city of Aleppo .
The Associated Press quotes residents as saying the clashes occurred Sunday on a road leading to the airport in the city .
Al Jazeera television said as many as three gunmen died when they blew up their car after being surrounded by police .
There were no reports of further casualties .
There has been no official confirmation of the clash from the Damascus government .
Oil prices fell sharply Monday as the U.S. House of Representatives voted against a $ 700-billion government plan to rescue troubled U.S. financial institutions .
The price of a barrel of oil for future delivery dropped more than $ 10 to hit $ 96.26 a barrel at the close of New York trading Monday .
Traders worried that rejection of the controversial plan could hurt U.S. economic growth , and cut demand for energy .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has met the editors and the son of slain Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya .
U.S. officials say the meeting took place at Rice 's hotel in Moscow , where she arrived Saturday for talks with Russian officials .
The meeting included editors from Novaya Gazeta and Politkovskaya 's 28-year-old son .
Before arriving in the Russian capital , Rice told reporters that the fate of journalists in Russia is a major concern for the United States .
Politkovskaya was shot dead in the elevator of her Moscow apartment building October seventh .
Investigators say her death was likely related to her reporting on human rights abuses by the Russian military in Chechnya .
British police are questioning five people detained under anti-terrorism laws after police found a number of weapons in their possession .
Authorities say the detentions of the three men and two women follow a raid Friday on a home in the southwestern British city of Plymouth .
Officers confiscated a number of weapons , suspected imitation weapons , other suspicious devices and materials related to what authorities described as " political ideology . "
But officials say the investigation is not linked to any religious group .
Authorities identified the five as British nationals and said three of them face drug charges .
News media reports say authorities believe the five were planning to take part in protests in London during the Group of 20 economic summit in the British capital Thursday .
Security is reported extremely tight in the city with thousands of officers taking part .
The commander of NATO-led forces in Afghanistan says the alliance is sending thousands of extra troops to the war-torn country .
During a visit to the southern Afghan city of Kandahar Friday , General David Richards said NATO is committed to the mission in Afghanistan .
He said the U.S. would provide part of the increase by extending the tour of more than 3,000 American troops by four months .
General Richards did not specify which other NATO members would be sending additional forces .
Meanwhile , NATO says it has killed a senior Taleban leader and his deputies in an airstrike along Afghanistan 's southern border with Pakistan .
The alliance did not identify the suspected Taleban members killed in the attack .
Last month , in the same province , a U.S. airstrike killed the Taleban 's chief of military operations , who was also a close associate of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
Afghan Muslim clerics and tribal elders have urged U.S. authorities to quickly investigate allegations that U.S. interrogators desecrated the Muslim holy book .
The clerics and tribal elders gathered Sunday in Faizabad , the capital of Badakhshan province , to pass a resolution demanding a reaction from U.S. authorities within three days .
Their call came after four days of deadly anti-American protests following an unconfirmed report in a U.S. magazine that interrogators at Guantanamo military prison allegedly desecrated the Koran .
The Bangladeshi government also condemned the alleged abuses urging Washington to bring those responsible to justice .
A foreign ministry statement said " the incident has hurt the sentiments of Muslims all over the world not least in Bangladesh . "
U.S. officials have promised an open investigation into the allegations contained in the Newsweek magazine article , but say that so far they have found nothing to confirm the report .
President Bush says he is starting the process of picking the cabinet and White House staff for his second term in office .
Mr. Bush , spending the weekend at the presidential retreat , Camp David , in Maryland , did not indicate what changes he is considering for his team .
U.S. media reports , however , say Attorney General John Ashcroft could depart before Mr. Bush is sworn in for a second term in January .
Others reportedly considering leaving include Secretary of State Colin Powell and Homeland Security Chief Tom Ridge .
Meanwhile , U.S. counterterrorism coordinator Cofer Black has resigned his post , becoming the first to leave since President Bush 's re-election .
He had served the State Department since 2002 , and had previously worked for the CIA for nearly three decades .
An Indian court has convicted two men , and acquitted one , on charges connected to a series of bombings 13 years ago that killed 257 people in Mumbai - formerly known as Bombay .
The court found Nasir Dhakla and Mohammed Shaikh guilty Thursday of attending conspiracy meetings and undergoing arms training in Pakistan .
But the court acquitted a third man accused of making arrangements for the bombings due to insufficient evidence .
The judge in the case says prosecutors failed to prove Mohammed Mansoor was responsible for facilitating terrorist acts .
Indian authorities say the bombings were in retaliation for the destruction of a 16th century mosque , in the northern city of Ayodhya , by a Hindu mob a year earlier .
The mammoth trial began in 1994 , and the latest two guilty verdicts bring the number of convictions to 28 .
Several armed Palestinian factions have pledged to maintain calm during Wednesday 's Palestinian parliamentary elections .
The groups , including Hamas and Fatah-linked al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , say their militants will not be armed during the vote .
Despite the pledge , a Fatah election worker was killed in the West Bank town of Nablus overnight .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas called Tuesday for all Palestinians to take part in the election .
Opinion polls show almost equal support for the militant group Hamas and Mr. Abbas ' Fatah .
Both groups have indicated they would be ready to form a coalition after the vote .
A top Hamas leader also suggested his group might agree to future negotiations with Israel through a third party .
Hamas has carried out dozens of suicide bombings and remains committed to Israel 's destruction .
Israeli and U.S. officials call Hamas a terrorist organization .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has made a surprise Christmas Eve trip Friday to Iraq , visiting American soldiers wounded in Tuesday 's suicide attack near Mosul .
Twenty-two people were killed and 69 wounded in the attack , and Mr. Rumsfeld awarded medals to some of the injured at a hospital not far from the base .
The secretary said his trip had been planned before the attack , but was kept secret for security reasons .
Following a stop in Tikrit , Mr. Rumsfeld visited troops near Fallujah , where dozens of American military personnel were killed last month in an offensive to crush insurgents holed up there .
The U.S. military says more than 900 displaced residents returned to Fallujah for the first time Thursday , assisted by U.S. and Iraqi troops who are providing security and humanitarian aid .
Two United Nations agencies are warning that North Korea is still struggling with severe food shortages , despite enjoying its best harvest in a decade .
The World Food Program and the Food and Agriculture Organization said Tuesday that 6.4 million North Koreans - more than a quarter of its population - will require international food aid in 2005 .
The agencies also noted a sharp rise in North Korean food prices , saying the cost of rice came to about 30 percent of a typical North Korean monthly wage .
Experts blame much of the problem on Pyongyang 's mismanagement of agriculture .
The World Food Program has provided more than one billion dollars in food aid to North Korea since 1995 .
Iraq 's foreign minister says four Iraqi military officers have been detained in the kidnapping this week of an Iranian diplomat .
Foreign minister Hoshyar Zebari told reporters in Baghdad Wednesday that the four men , although military officers , were apparently not linked to the government .
He did not elaborate .
He said the men are being questioned about who ordered the kidnapping .
Gunmen in Iraqi army uniforms kidnapped the Iranian diplomat on Sunday .
Iran has said it holds the United States responsible for the safety of the diplomat .
An Iranian spokesman said the kidnappers are linked to Iraq 's defense ministry , which , he said , " works under the supervision of American forces . "
The U.S. has denied involvement in the incident .
U.S. forces in Iraq arrested a number of Iranians recently .
Washington has accused Tehran of aiding Shi'ite militants involved in sectarian attacks .
Insurgents in Iraq have attacked the Abu Ghraib prison , outside Baghdad , injuring at least 18 American soldiers and 12 detainees .
The U.S. military says that between 40 and 60 insurgents detonated two car bombs and then launched rocket-propelled grenades , followed by small arms fire outside the prison Saturday evening .
Coalition forces repelled their attack and the prison is reported to be secured .
It is not known whether there were insurgent casualties .
Abu Ghraib houses more than 2,000 detainees .
It is notorious for a prisoner abuse scandal that resulted in charges against several U.S. soldiers .
Earlier today , a car bomb explosion killed five people near Baquba .
And in political news , the Iraqi National Assembly is scheduled to meet Sunday to elect a speaker .
But politicians say Shi'ite and Sunni leaders are still not able to agree on a Sunni candidate for the post .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin says smoking will be banned in most public places in his country in February .
Speaking Sunday to French media , the prime minister said the ban will be extended to cover bars , restaurants , hotels and discotheques in January of 2008 .
In a parliamentary report last week , French lawmakers called for a total ban effective next September .
The only exceptions would be commercial establishments that provide sealed smoking areas with separate ventilation systems .
The French news agency quotes Mr. de Villepin as saying an estimated 5,000 people die in France every year from the effects of passive smoking .
He said those figures present a " totally unacceptable situation " in terms of public health .
France is the latest European country to sharply curtail smoking in public places .
Britain , Italy , Sweden , Ukraine and Spain are considering similar measures .
Ethiopia Saturday released 32 supporters of the political opposition who had been detained since post-election violence in 2005 .
Their release comes after Ethiopia pardoned another 38 opposition members last month .
That group had received life sentences in court the week before their pardons .
None of the 32 freed Saturday had been charged in court with any crimes .
All had been rounded up after protests over the 2005 elections turned violent .
The opposition made its largest gains ever in those elections .
Opposition groups claimed the elections were rigged to keep Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in power .
Ethiopian security forces killed at least 193 people while stopping the protests .
A DOG passing over a stream on a plank saw his reflection in the water .
" You ugly brute ! " he cried ; " how dare you look at me in that insolent way . "
He made a grab in the water , and , getting hold of what he supposed was the other dog 's lip , lifted out a fine piece of meat which a butcher 's boy had dropped into the stream .
Rescue efforts continue along the southern coast of Indonesia 's Java Island - struck by a tsunami this week .
Almost 400 people have been confirmed dead and the death toll is expected to rise .
Tens of thousands of people have been displaced or evacuated .
I 'm here in the mosque of a small coastal town of Pangandaran , where bodies keep arriving since a tsunami swept ashore on Monday .
Families here are mourning the loss of people and preparing bodies for Islamic burial .
The atmosphere here is still chaotic - filled with sirens and rumbling relief trucks .
Search and rescue teams say they continue to look for victims and expect the death toll to climb still further .
This morning teams pulled several more bodies from the debris and rubble .
Many residents are bracing for more bad news in the days to come .
An Ass once found a Lion 's skin which the hunters had left out in the sun to dry .
He put it on and went towards his native village .
All fled at his approach , both men and animals , and he was a proud Ass that day .
In his delight he lifted up his voice and brayed , but then every one knew him , and his owner came up and gave him a sound cudgelling for the fright he had caused .
And shortly afterwards a Fox came up to him and said : " Ah , I knew you by your voice . "
Fine clothes may disguise , but silly words will disclose a fool .
Reports from Afghanistan say at least three policemen died in bomb attacks Saturday .
Officials say a roadside bomb in southern Ghazni province killed at least two officers , destroyed a police vehicle , and wounded several other people .
A similar explosion took place in western Farah province , where one policeman died and at least one other was wounded .
No one has claimed responsibility for either attack , but Afghan officials blame Taliban forces .
These were the latest in a series of attacks on Afghan police , who are sometimes seen as less well-trained than other security forces .
A surgeon in Miami used his skill in transplanting organs to save the life of a woman who had been told her cancer was inoperable .
In this breakthrough surgery , doctors narrowed the scope of what is now considered inoperable .
VOA 's Carol Pearson reports .
A South Korean human rights group says a senior North Korean scientist and the head of a military hospital have defected and are seeking asylum in South Korea .
The Citizen 's Coalition for Human Rights of Abductees and North Korean Refugees says the two defected separately .
The scientist is said to have left North Korea in March .
The rights group says the defectors are living in a Southeast Asian country it did not identify , and are applying for asylum to go to South Korea .
Officials in Seoul have not commented publicly on the matter .
Human rights groups believe hundreds of thousands of North Koreans have fled the country since the end of the Korean War in 1953 to escape poverty and persecution .
The majority cross the border into neighboring China .
Iraqi police say three bombs have exploded in a market north of Baghdad .
The bombs detonated moments apart Saturday near shops in Baquba , 65 kilometers north of the capital , wounding at least 10 people .
Baquba is known for its religious and ethnic mix , and has been the scene of frequent violence .
In another development today , Iraqi officials say police have detained at least 68 suspected insurgents in raids across the country .
The U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague has convicted two Bosnian Serb army officers of complicity in the 1995 massacre of thousands of Muslims .
Colonel Vidoje Blagojevic was found guilty of aiding and abetting genocide in the deaths of more than 7,000 unarmed Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
He was sentenced to 18 years in prison .
Major Dragan Jokic was found guilty of aiding and abetting murder , and of extermination and persecution , and was sentenced to nine years .
Both men had pleaded not guilty .
The 1995 massacre occurred after Serbs captured Srebrenica , which the United Nations had declared a safe area .
Bosnian Serb authorities acknowledged for the first time last year that there had been a massacre .
Officials in Pakistan say 28 people have died in the aftermath of heavy rainstorms over the past two days .
Health Minister Syed Sardar Ahmed says the majority of deaths took place in the port city of Karachi .
Ahmed says eight people died of electrocution and another 18 because of roof and wall collapses .
In Bangladesh , officials say drowning and disease killed at least 16 people Friday .
Thousands more have been admitted to hospitals for severe diarrhea .
Nearly 2,000 people have died in India , Bangladesh and Nepal since the monsoon rains began in mid-June , the vast majority in India .
Earlier this week , the United Nations warned of disease outbreaks in the region as rescue workers struggled to deliver food and water to an estimated 30 million people displaced by floods from the rain .
A Chilean court has stripped former dictator Augusto Pinochet of his legal immunity , clearing the way for him to be tried in connection with the deaths of two political prisoners .
Justices voted 17 to 6 Wednesday to remove the immunity Pinochet enjoys as a former president .
The 90-year-old can now be tried for his role in two murders committed by soldiers several weeks after Pinochet claimed power through a bloody coup .
Chilean judges also upheld a previous ruling allowing Pinochet to be released from house arrest if he posted bail , set at about $ 19,000 .
General Pinochet ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990 .
A top U.N. official says indirect talks between the Ugandan government and northern rebels have provided the best chance for peace in 18 years of conflict .
U.N. Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland praised the Ugandan government Tuesday for its renewed efforts to seek dialogue .
Mr. Egeland says the conflict has forced up to 90 percent of the population in some areas of northern Uganda from their homes , adding that hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake .
Rebels from the Lord 's Resistance Army are notorious for attacking civilians and kidnapping children for use as soldiers or sex slaves .
Over the last few weeks , the rebels and the Ugandan government declared a temporary cease-fire and held talks through mediators .
The government says it is extending the truce for another week in the hopes of starting formal peace talks by then .
Lebanese soldiers patrolled the streets of a Beirut neighborhood Wednesday , a day after three people were killed in clashes between rival Shi'ite and Sunni Muslims .
Broken glass and spent bullet casings littered the streets of Bourj Abi Haidar following violence that started as a fight between two men .
Officials say a confrontation between a supporter of the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah and another man from the conservative Sunni Muslim group al-Ahbash escalated into a four-hour shootout .
The two groups later issued a joint statement saying the flare-up was a one-time incident resulting from a " personal dispute " and was not political .
Participants fired machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades before Lebanese soldiers intervened and cordoned off the area .
Officials say three people were wounded in the clashes , and that two of the dead have been identified as Mohammad Fawaz , a Hezbollah security official , and his aide .
Sri Lankan military officials say at least 10 soldiers were killed and several others wounded when an army bus hit a landmine Tuesday in the northern Jaffna peninsula .
Authorities say they suspect Tamil Tiger rebels carried out the attack .
More than 30 government troops have been killed in eastern and northern Sri Lanka in a series of attacks blamed on the rebels since the beginning of this month .
The upsurge of violence comes amid threats that Tamil rebels may resume their violent struggle for an independent Tamil homeland if the government fails to agree to a peace settlement over the next 12 months .
Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakshe travels to New Delhi Tuesday , for talks with Indian leaders about his efforts to reach a lasting peace in the island nation .
Iran is dismissing a newspaper report that says U.S. intelligence officials have thousands of pages of documents proving Tehran is trying to build a nuclear bomb .
An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman , Hamid Reza Asefi , describes the allegations as laughable .
The New York Times reports Sunday the documents were on a stolen Iranian laptop computer obtained from a longtime contact in Iran , and were shown to officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency in July .
The United States accuses Iran of trying to build nuclear weapons , and wants the IAEA to refer Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The IAEA board will consider the request during its November 24 meeting .
The Iranian spokesman says the new allegation is an attempt by Washington to affect the board 's decision .
Officials in Burma say a new outbreak of bird flu has been detected among chickens in an eastern district near the Chinese border .
The state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper said Saturday that the outbreak was found at a farm in Kentung township in eastern Shan state on November 18 , after a farmer reported an unusual number of deaths in his chickens .
Officials culled an unknown number of birds at the farm .
A statement from the Myanmar Livestock and Veterinary Department urged people to prevent the entry of poultry and birds from neighboring countries into Burma .
The head of Ukraine 's parliamentary commission investigating the poisoning of opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko has called for an emergency meeting Tuesday .
Reports from the region say Volodymyr Syvkovych told journalists in Kiev that medical tests showing that Mr. Yushchenko was deliberately poisoned have given the commission grounds to reopen the investigation .
Prosecutors in Ukraine are conducting a separate investigation .
Mr. Syvkovych urged doctors who conducted the tests in Vienna to hand over the test results to prosecutors and his commission .
He also called on Mr. Yushchenko to testify before the parliamentary commission .
On Monday , Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych accused Washington of financing his rival 's presidential campaign .
But , U.S. officials said they have no favored candidate , and that aid sent to Ukraine is only for promoting free elections and democracy .
New allegations of prisoner abuse by U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan have been revealed in Army documents released by the American Civil Liberties Union .
The documents show photographs of U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan posing with hooded and bound detainees during mock executions .
The photos were taken at a base in southern Afghanistan ( Fire Base Tycze ) between December 2003 and February 2004 .
Some members of the infantry regiment said they took the pictures for fun and destroyed some of them after the Abu Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq to avoid another public outrage .
The Afghanistan incident triggered an Army investigation .
Army records show that several soldiers were charged with dereliction of duty , but more serious charges were not substantiated .
The American Civil Liberties Union says the new documents suggest that abuse of prisoners in Iraq and Afghanistan may be widespread .
The group had requested information about U.S.-held detainees .
The International Criminal Court at The Hague is expected to launch a formal investigation into possible war crimes in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Sources familiar with the case say prosecutors plan to announce details of the probe Monday .
The inquiry is expected to be the biggest investigation in the ICC 's nearly three-year history .
Officials at the United Nations have said 180,000 people in Darfur have been killed in more than two years of fighting between rebel groups and government-backed Arab militias , known as the Janjaweed .
Two-million other people have been displaced in the conflict .
The United Nations referred the case to the ICC after the United States , which opposes the court , backed away from using its veto in the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns has expressed doubt that Washington and New Delhi will finalize a nuclear deal before President Bush visits India next week .
Burns made the comment following talks with Indian Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran in New Delhi Wednesday .
He said both sides want to complete the negotiations , but added there are differences that need to be worked out .
He did not elaborate .
Under the deal , India would gain access to long-denied U.S. nuclear technology in exchange for including some of its reactors on a list of civilian facilities that would be subject to international inspections .
Burns and Saran are to continue talks on Friday .
Some U.S. legislators oppose the deal .
They say it could undermine the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
India has not signed the treaty .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says two Marines have been wounded during an ambush by suspected Taleban fighters north of Jalalabad .
A U.S. statement says the Marines came under fire Saturday evening while conducting a routine security patrol , and the assailants retreated .
Both Marines received shrapnel wounds to the shoulder and were treated at the scene before continuing with their mission .
U.S. and Afghan government troops clash regularly with insurgents in southern and eastern Afghanistan bordering Pakistan .
Violence has declined during the winter .
But Taleban officials have vowed that attacks will intensify when the weather improves .
Poland 's foreign minister says the European Union ( EU ) will not start entry talks with Croatia unless that country hands over a top fugitive war crimes suspect to The Hague tribunal .
Adam Rotfeld told reporters a March 17 date has been set for the talks .
But he warned that unless Croatia surrenders General Ante Gotovina , the European Union will simply not open the discussions .
The Polish minister , whose country gained EU membership last May , made his comments after talks in Warsaw with the tribunal 's chief prosecutor , Carla del Ponte .
The prosecutor confirmed that she had sent a letter to the European Union , criticizing Croatia for failing to arrest General Gotovina .
The Hague court indicted the general for his role in the deaths of civilians during a 1995 Croatian army sweep through a Serb-held area of the country .
The U.S. economy added 112,000 new jobs in November , which is about half what experts had expected .
Friday 's closely watched report from the U.S. Labor Department also said the unemployment rate dropped slightly to 5.4 percent .
Analysts said high oil prices and disappointing holiday sales have made companies reluctant to take on new workers .
Economists say it takes the creation of between 100,000 and 150,000 new jobs each month to employ new entrants into the U.S. workforce every month .
Turkish authorities say a suicide bomber was behind Tuesday 's blast that killed six other people in Ankara .
Ankara Governor Kemal Onal said Wednesday the bomber had a police record and used explosives similar to those used by Kurdish militants .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the blast .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan described the bombing as a ruthless terrorist attack .
The Pakistani embassy says eight Pakistanis were among the more than 90 people wounded in the blast in a commercial district , Ulus .
The Pakistanis were in Ankara for an international defense industry fair .
The rebel Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 .
Britain says finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial nations have expressed a willingness to cancel up to 100 percent of the debt of the world 's poorest nations .
Britain 's Treasury chief Gordon Brown said at the close of the G7 summit in London Saturday , that debt relief would be decided on a case-by-case basis .
Britain had also pushed for the G7 to support London 's plan to double international aid to the developing world .
But the United State rejected that proposal .
U.S. Treasury Undersecretary John Taylor told BBC radio the plan did not fit into the U.S. budget process .
Britain 's International Development Secretary Hilary Benn promised to push ahead with the plan , saying a solution will be found by 2006 with or without the United States .
Pakistan 's military says it has killed 30 militants in an air strike on a Taliban hideout near the Afghan border .
The military said in a statement that the rebel hideout in the Shawal mountains was targeted Saturday after authorities received a tip that insurgents were hiding there .
Shawal is in South Waziristan , a restive tribal area bordering Afghanistan , where the military in October launched an air and ground offensive to flush out Taliban militants
In another development Saturday , suicide bombers have attacked two police stations in northwest Pakistan .
The attacks in Mensehra and Balakot killed a police chief and wounded several other police officers .
Officials say one of the suicide bombers blew himself up , while another was shot dead by police .
A third escaped .
The French news agency is reporting that bomb disposal personnel defused explosives strapped to the dead attacker 's body .
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow , and tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being compelled to labor .
Shortly afterwards , at the harvest festival , the owner released the Ox from his yoke , but bound the Heifer with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of the occasion .
The Ox saw what was being done , and said with a smile to the Heifer : " For this you were allowed to live in idleness , because you were presently to be sacrificed . "
The head of the Palestinian mission in Peru has told protesters in Lima that the kidnapping of a Peruvian photographer in the Gaza Strip is damaging the " just fight " of the Palestinian people .
Walid Abdel Rahim spoke to protesters on Friday outside the Palestinian mission .
He condemned the kidnapping of Jaime Razuri .
The protesters called for Razuri 's release .
The crowd included Razuri 's family and international journalists .
Razuri is an employee of the French news agency .
Gunmen seized him on Monday outside the news agency 's offices in Gaza City .
No group has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping .
Kidnappings are frequent in the Gaza Strip , but hostages are usually released within hours .
Russia 's state-run natural gas company , Gazprom , says it has begun talks on purchasing gas from Azerbaijan .
Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller signed a memorandum of understanding in Moscow Friday with the president of the Azeri State Oil Company , Rovnag Abdullayev , to begin talks on importing gas from 2010 .
Azeri gas would flow to Russia via a 200-kilometer pipeline running along the Caspian coast from Azerbaijan 's capital , Baku , to the Russian town of Novo-Filya .
The move could have negative implications for the EU-backed Nabucco pipeline project , designed to bring Caspian Sea gas to Europe while bypassing Russia .
Last week , the European Union pledged more than $ 265 million for the project as part of a larger energy plan but it lacks both viable sources of gas and agreement between consortium members .
Several people were killed in a bombing Friday , in northwest Pakistan 's restive Swat Valley .
A former provincial minister Asfandyar Amerzeb was among those killed when a remote control bomb exploded as his car passed .
It is not clear if it this is the same incident that claimed lives of supporters of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf 's party , as reported earlier .
Pakistani troops have been battling militants in Swat since July , when a radical cleric called for a holy war against the government .
Soldiers recently ejected militants from territory they had seized in the area .
The U.S. military in Iraq says American warplanes have bombed two bridges in western al-Anbar province , to stop insurgents from using them to move fighters and equipment to other cities for attacks .
The air strikes Tuesday near the Syrian border did not destroy the Euphrates River bridges , but made them inoperable .
No casualties were reported .
Coalition troops also raided a nearby safehouse , killing two foreign fighters and detaining three others .
The building was later destroyed .
Elsewhere , in the southern Shi'ite holy city of Najaf , U.S. forces handed over military control of the city to Iraqi forces .
In other developments , the U.S. military reports two American soldiers were killed and two wounded Tuesday in a bomb blast in Baghdad .
Two more soldiers were killed Monday in Tal Afar and Ramadi .
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers .
He resolved to cut it down , and taking his axe in his hand , made a bold stroke at its roots .
The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them , but to spare it , and they would sing to him and lighten his labors .
He paid no attention to their request , but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe .
When he reached the hollow of the tree , he found a hive full of honey .
Having tasted the honeycomb , he threw down his axe , and looking on the tree as sacred , took great care of it .
Self-interest alone moves some men .
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter says he is " extremely disappointed " with Tony Blair for what he says is the British prime minister 's failure to constrain President Bush 's policies toward Iraq .
Mr. Carter , an outspoken critic of the 2003 U.S.-led Iraq invasion , was quoted Sunday in Britain 's Sunday Telegraph newspaper .
He said he thought that Mr. Blair could have had a moderating influence on Washington , " and he has not . "
Mr. Blair has been President Bush 's closest international ally on Iraq , and Britain has the second largest contingent of troops in the country .
Mr. Carter said people in many countries he has visited equate U.S. policy with British interests , and said that U.S. popularity in moderate countries like Egypt and Jordan is currently less than five percent .
The 81-year-old Mr. Carter , the 39th U.S. president , served from 1977 to 1981 .
Hundreds of thousands of Shi'ite pilgrims gathered in Iraq 's holy city of Karbala for a religious festival .
Iraqi authorities expect the number of pilgrims to top one million .
Heavy security is in place across the city during the festival commemorating the birth of ninth-century Imam al-Mahdi al-Muntadar .
In other developments Saturday , bomb attacks in Baghdad killed at least two people .
And , a gunman killed an employee of Iraq 's government-run newspaper in the capital .
Iraqi officials also announced Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is heading to Iran Monday .
Officials say his two-day visit will focus on security and bilateral issues .
On Friday , insurgents firing mortar rounds killed at least three Shi'ite pilgrims in a procession near Karbala .
Officials say at least six more pilgrims were wounded .
In other violence , a roadside bomb in Baghdad killed at least two people .
French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy is in Moscow for talks with top Russian officials expected to focus on Iran 's nuclear program .
France , along with Britain and Germany , called for an emergency session of the International Atomic Energy Agency on February 2 , to hear the European case for referring Iran to the United Nations Security Council .
The Security Council can impose sanctions , if it finds Iran has violated international treaties with its nuclear program .
The call for the I.A.E.A . session came after Tehran broke a two-year moratorium on nuclear research earlier this month .
The United States has accused Iran of using its research to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran insists its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
China Thursday called for " restraint and patience " to resolve the nuclear crisis .
Russian authorities say the blast from a bomb planted on train tracks in the southern Dagestan republic has killed one person and wounded four others .
The commuter train was heading from a town in western Dagestan , Khasavyurt , to the regional capital , Makhachkala , early Sunday when the explosion occurred .
Russian media say police believe the bomb was detonated by remote control .
Dagestan authorities are calling the bombing an act of terrorism , and the Russian news agency Itar-Tass quotes officials as saying the attack was aimed at harming civilians .
There is no immediate claim of responsibility , but police say they suspect Muslim extremists carried out the bombing .
A new Russian study found that violence by Muslim separatist militants from Chechnya is spilling over to neighboring Caucasus republics such as Dagestan , where the report says terrorist attacks have more than doubled to 70 since last year .
Indiana Jones is returning - and Cate Blanchett may be along for the ride .
The award-winning actress is reportedly negotiating a role in the fourth installment of the Indiana Jones series .
Harrison Ford has already signed on to portray the fedora-wearing adventurer .
Cate Blanchett won a 2005 Best Supporting Actress Academy Award for The Aviator , and this year received a supporting nomination for her role in Notes On A Scandal .
Steven Spielberg will direct the film , scheduled to begin shooting in June in Los Angeles and undisclosed international locations .
Paramount Pictures will release Indy 4 worldwide on May 22 , 2008 .
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez discussed trade and economic issues - as well as arms sales - during a meeting in Moscow Friday .
Mr. Putin and Mr. Chavez signed an agreement announcing Venezuela 's support of Russia 's bid to join the World Trade Organization .
The two leaders also discussed a joint energy production project .
Officials from Russian 's Lukoil company and Venezuela 's state-owned PDVSA oil company signed a memorandum of understanding on a joint oil exploration venture in Venezuela .
Mr. Chavez said Caracas will buy 40 military helicopters and 100,000 submachine guns from Moscow .
The British Defense Ministry says a British soldier serving with the NATO force in Afghanistan has been shot dead in southern Helmand province .
A NATO statement says the soldier was killed Sunday during an attack against insurgents in the Musa Qala district .
In other violence , in the same province , Afghan authorities say 17 Taleban insurgents have been killed Saturday .
Local officials say three insurgents were killed in a clash in the mountainous Garmser district .
Hours later , during a search operation in the same district , troops killed 14 more insurgents .
In neighboring Kandahar province , an American soldier was wounded when a suicide bomber blew up his explosives-laden car near a military convoy on the main highway to Kabul .
And , armed men attacked a police post overnight in the Murghab district of western Badghis province , killing at least two Afghan border police .
There were 11 people - ten men and one woman - hanging onto a rope that came down from a helicopter .
They all decided that one person should get off , because if they did n't , the rope would break and everyone would die .
No one could decide who should go , so finally , the woman gave a really touching speech saying how she would give up her life to save the others , because women were used to giving up things for their husbands and children , giving in to men , and not receiving anything in return .
When she finished speaking , all the men started clapping .
The United States is sending an FBI agent to Azerbaijan to help find those responsible for the killing of magazine editor Elmar Husseinov , whose work was critical of the Azeri government .
The U.S. Embassy said the agent is arriving in Baku Friday at the request of Azerbaijan 's government .
President Ilham Aliyev ordered a swift investigation , calling the attack a serious provocation against the state and authority .
Earlier , the country 's top opposition leader called for demonstrations in response to Wednesday 's killing .
Mr. Husseinov was the editor of the weekly Monitor .
He had previously been jailed and fined for his work .
The Committee to Protect Journalists said the killing appeared to have been well-planned and orchestrated -- while the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders called it part of a campaign of violence against journalists in Azerbaijan .
Afghan authorities in the western province of Herat say demolition experts have destroyed a huge amount of arms and ammunition left over from decades of fighting .
The authorities say more than 17,000 land mines and other unexploded ordinance collected from militia units in Herat were detonated Thursday in a controlled explosion .
Afghanistan remains one of the most heavily mined countries in the world .
Millions of explosives were laid during the Soviet occupation in the 1980s and the brutal civil war , which followed .
Afghan officials say that land mines or unexploded bombs still kill or disable hundreds of Afghans every year .
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house .
One day he met a friend , a Fuller , and entreated him to come and live with him , saying that they should be far better neighbors and that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened .
The Fuller replied , " The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned , for whatever I should whiten , you would immediately blacken again with your charcoal . "
Like will draw like .
Chinese authorities have banned the use of foreign words and phrases – especially English – in Chinese newspapers , books and websites .
The ban , reported Wednesday , was issued by the General Administration of Press and Publication , the governing body for written publications .
It says the increasing use of English and half-English phrases is damaging the purity of the Chinese language and disrupting the nation 's " harmonious and healthy cultural environment . "
The ruling body leaves some room for English words and abbreviations to be used if they are immediately followed by a Chinese translation or explanation .
It says translations should be consistent with basic translation principles and practices .
The announcement includes a warning that violations will be punished as provided for by the law .
The government of Peru has requested that Chile arrest former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori , who arrived in Chile unexpectedly Sunday .
A spokesman for the Chilean government , Osvaldo Puccio , says the matter has been turned over to the courts to decide .
The international arrest warrants for Mr. Fujimori are not valid in Chile .
Mr. Fujimori , who fled to Japan in 2000 , is wanted in Peru on charges of corruption and human rights abuses related to the death squad murders of 25 people .
In a media statement he said he will stay in Chile temporarily while launching his candidacy for Peruvian president in next April 's elections .
His visit comes at a time when Peru and Chile are at odds over maritime boundaries .
Peru Friday passed a law attempting to reclaim sea territory from Chile .
The U.S. Treasury Department has designated 11 companies as fronts for an Iranian bank that Washington says helps spread weapons of mass destruction .
The Treasury said Tuesday U.S. citizens are prohibited from any transactions involving the companies , which are located in Iran , the Cayman Islands and Dubai .
The United States accuses the companies of funneling money for Bank Melli , which U.S. officials call a " known proliferator " of weapons of mass destruction .
The United States has supported three rounds of United Nations sanctions on Iran for its disputed nuclear program .
It also has taken unilateral action against various Iranian entities .
Benin 's Constitutional Court says the two leading candidates from a recent presidential vote will compete in a run-off later this month .
The court issued final vote results Wednesday , showing that former banker Yayi Boni won 36 percent of the ballots while former Prime Minister Adrien Houngbedji got 24 percent .
Court officials say a date for the run-off vote is not yet decided , but it likely will take place in the coming weeks .
Authorities noted there were some problems in the voting , but said they did not affect the validity of the results .
More than three million voters took part in the March 5 ballot .
The winner of the upcoming run-off vote will replace 72-year-old President Mathieu Kerekou , who was barred by age limits from seeking re-election .
Spider-Man 3 smashed U.S. box office records last weekend , netting $ 148 million in its first three days of release .
The tally beats the previous record of $ 135.6 million , set last summer by Pirates Of The Caribbean : Dead Man 's Chest .
The web-slinging hero has also proven irresistable overseas , grossing $ 375 million globally .
This represents a profit of $ 117 million , allowing for the film 's production budget of $ 258 million .
Further records may fall in the next 10 days , with no major competition in sight until the May 18 premiere of the animated comedy Shrek The Third .
The previous U.S. champion , Disturbia , ranked a distant second last weekend with $ 5.7 million in box office grosses .
The figure raises its three-week total to $ 59.9 million .
Beijing 's subway could reach 561 kilometers in 14 years - making it the longest subway system in the world .
The official China Daily newspaper reports Monday that a plan has been drawn up to expand the subway network to 19 lines where it will reach all major corners of China 's capital city .
Each of the system 's current four lines carries 1.5 million people every day .
The paper says the expansion plan is still subject to government approval , but if adopted it calls for three lines to be completed in time for the 2008 Olympics .
Currently , London has the longest subway line in the world .
It is 407 kilometers in length , has 12 lines and carries three million passengers a day .
Japan 's Foreign Ministry says Russian authorities have seized four Japanese fishing boats in disputed waters off Russia 's far east on suspicion of illegal fishing .
The ministry said Saturday that the boats were intercepted and searched by Russian officials off Kamchatka peninsula , and have been taken to the Russian port of Petropavlosk-Kamchatskii .
Earlier this year , a Russian border patrol fired on a Japanese fishing boat in the disputed waters , killing a fisherman before seizing the vessel and the remaining three crew members .
The incident increased already tense relations over the four Kuril islands , which were seized by Soviet troops at the end of World War II , and are still claimed by Japan .
The dispute over the islands has prevented the two countries from signing a peace treaty officially ending the war .
U.S. officials say a group of U.S. congressmen was denied entry into Venezuela Monday after landing at the country 's main airport near Caracas .
The delegation was led by Illinois Republican Henry Hyde , chairman of the House International Relations Committee .
They had arrived in the country for a scheduled visit .
A U.S embassy official said the visit was canceled after Venezuelan officials kept the delegation 's military jet on the tarmac for a least an hour without allowing the lawmakers to disembark .
Caracas airport official Jose Cabello denies this , saying the group made no attempt to contact Venezuelan authorities .
Relations between Washington and Caracas have been strained ever since populist President Hugo Chavez came to office in 1999 .
Mr. Chavez has repeatedly accused the Bush administration of planning to invade Venezuela .
Washington denies any such plans , and warns that Mr. Chavez is becoming an authoritarian threat to Venezuela 's democracy and regional stability .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice leaves on her first diplomatic mission to Asia Monday , where she will focus on persuading North Korea to return to six-party disarmament talks .
Ms. Rice will travel to India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Japan , South Korea and China before returning to Washington on March 21 .
Discussions with her Asian counterparts are also expected to cover Indian-Pakistani relations , Afghan reconstruction and the escalating tensions between mainland China and Taiwan .
North Korea 's nuclear weapons program will be the focus of her meetings in Tokyo , Seoul and Beijing .
Pyongyang last month claimed to possess nuclear weapons .
Ms. Rice has already traveled to Europe , the Middle East and Mexico since being confirmed as secretary of state in January .
A suicide bomber blew himself up near a NATO base in eastern Afghanistan Tuesday , killing 10 civilians and wounding 14 others .
An Afghan official , provincial governor Arsala Jamal , says the bomber set off his explosives in a crowd of laborers waiting to get inside a NATO military base in the city of Khost .
There were no NATO or U.S. casualities .
In a separate incident in the south , suspected Taleban militants ambushed a police patrol in Kandahar , killing at least eight policemen .
Attacks by Taleban militants against NATO , U.S. and Afghan forces increased dramatically in Afghanistan last year .
U.S. and Afghan officials have warned they expect an increase in Taleban attacks in the coming months in what has been called a " spring offensive . "
Police in India say tribal separatist rebels have shot and killed eight Bengali-speaking villagers in the far northeastern state of Tripura .
The attack occurred Sunday morning in a village east of Agartala , Tripura 's capital city .
Three women were among those killed .
Two people were seriously injured .
Authorities say the raid was carried out by militants from the National Liberation Front of Tripura , who have been fighting for an independent tribal homeland for decades .
Tribal people once dominated the region , but now say they have been reduced to a minority after years of settlement by Bengali-speaking migrants , mainly from neighboring Bangladesh .
China 's state media say Beijing plans to launch a lunar orbiter later this year .
The Xinhua news agency quotes China 's space agency chief , Sun Laiyan , as saying the launch is the first step towards a lunar probe .
Sun said the lunar exploration program has been divided into three steps : orbiting the moon , landing on the lunar surface and coming back to Earth with moon samples .
Xinhua says a moon rover mission is scheduled for around 2012 .
Sun , who spoke at Beijing Jiaotong University , says China will also continue research on manned space missions , including a space walk and experiments tp link passing spacecraft .
In 2003 , China became the third country - after the former Soviet Union and the United States - to launch a man into space .
The United States has confirmed that two U.S. officials met with North Korean diplomats in New York last week .
A spokesman for the U.S. embassy in Tokyo Thursday said the working-level meeting was used to convey U.S. policy , not to negotiate .
He did not elaborate on what the two sides discussed .
But Washington has been urging North Korea to return to six party talks on its nuclear program .
The talks have been stalled since last September , and North Korea has boycotted efforts to arrange a new meeting .
Palestine Liberation Organization chairman Mahmoud Abbas has again urged Palestinians to end their armed uprising against Israel .
His published comments in an Arabic newspaper Tuesday came as militants killed one Thai farm laborer and wounded two others in a mortar attack on a Jewish settlement in Gaza .
Mr. Abbas said the Palestinian uprising is the legitimate right of Palestinians to protest Israeli occupation through popular and social means .
But he said the use of weapons in that struggle has been damaging and it should stop .
His comments follow accusations from Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon that Palestinian leaders are not doing enough to rein in militant groups .
On Sunday , Palestinian militants detonated more than a ton of explosives in a tunnel beneath an Israeli army post , killing five soldiers .
Israeli forces later demolished several buildings in the Gaza Strip .
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak has canceled a visit to Paris where he was to take part in an international military exhibition , and meet with the French defense and foreign ministers .
Israel 's defense ministry said Sunday that Barak has decided to remain in Israel until a panel of experts is formed to investigate the raid on a Gaza-bound flotilla .
Earlier this month , Israel drew international criticism after its soldiers killed nine pro-Palestinian activists who were part of a flotilla that was trying to break a blockade and deliver aid directly to Gaza .
French activists said they plan on filing a lawsuit against Barak in France , as well as with the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands .
Barak told Israel 's parliament last week that an internal inquiry will aim to establish whether Israel 's raid on the ship , and its Gaza blockade , are in keeping with international law .
Afghan election officials have finished counting ballots from last month 's legislative elections and are to release some provisional results Thursday .
A spokesman for the joint U.N.-Afghan election commission says the physical count is complete , except for some ballots that are subject to audit .
Vote counts are to be released in phases over the coming days , as officials investigate reports of vote fraud .
Final results are due by October 22 .
Unofficial tallies show that warlords and opponents of President Hamid Karzai have fared relatively well , and women lawmakers could hold the balance of power in the new national assembly .
Meanwhile , a suspected suicide bomber has blown up a pick-up truck near a Canadian military convoy in southern Afghanistan , killing himself and a child .
Three Canadian soldiers were wounded .
Russia and North Korea have pledged to boost cooperation on international issues , following a meeting of the countries ' foreign ministers in Moscow .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov held talks with his North Korean counterpart , Pak Ui Chun , in the Russian capital Wednesday .
Pak 's visit to Moscow coincided with the 60th anniversary of relations between Russia and North Korea .
The foreign ministers were expected to discuss North Korea 's nuclear disarmament process .
Russia is one of five foreign powers working with North Korea on the dismantling of its nuclear weapons program .
Pyongyang readmitted United Nations inspectors to its main nuclear complex this week and pledged to stop its nuclear activities .
On Saturday , Washington removed North Korea from a list of states sponsoring terrorism , saying Pyongyang had agreed to all of its nuclear inspection demands .
Nuclear negotiators say the action will help get the six-nation nuclear talks back on track .
Four British soldiers are facing manslaughter charges for allegedly forcing an Iraqi teenager into a canal in southern Iraq where he drowned in 2003 .
A prosecutor told the court martial Tuesday in Colchester , England that the soldiers ordered the boy and three other suspected looters into the Shabat al-Basra canal to teach them a lesson .
He accused them of failing to help the boy , Ahmad Jabbar Kareem after seeing that he was in " obvious distress , " and said they later fled the scene .
One of the suspected looters told authorities that the soldiers threw rocks at them after they were forced into the water .
The four British soldiers have pleaded not guilty .
The European Union has decided to tighten sanctions on Burma after the military government failed to meet EU demands for progress on democracy and human rights .
EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg Monday voted to widen a visa blacklist on members of Burma 's military junta and place stricter controls on investment .
EU officials had threatened the move ahead of the Asia-Europe summit in Hanoi last week , after Burma ignored demands for the the release of democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and the lifting of restrictions on her pro-democracy party .
Sunday Burma 's state-owned media said Western nations can not use sanctions to impose democracy .
The Democratic Party used its weekly radio address to criticize President Bush 's Iraq war strategy and to blame Senate Republicans for stifling debate on Iraq .
Senator John Kerry from the state of Massachusetts Saturday said the president 's proposal to send 21,000 additional troops to Iraq is , in his words , " nothing more than the escalation of a misguided war . "
Kerry , who is a Vietnam War veteran , also criticized Republicans for blocking a Senate resolution backed by Democrats last week that opposes president Bush 's plan to send additional troops .
Kerry also urged Congress to take stronger action to end the war and said the United States must pressure Iraqi politicians to meet benchmarks .
In a separate radio address earlier Saturday , President Bush urged Congress to approve his energy proposals .
An Ethiopian judge has ordered a group of 131 detained opposition leaders , journalists and others to remain in custody after most boycotted a bail hearing .
Most lawyers for the group boycotted Wednesday 's Ethiopian High Court hearing , saying prison authorities have not allowed them to meet with their clients .
The detained have been charged with treason and genocide for their alleged involvement in election protests that turned violent .
The judge says he will rule on the bail requests next week .
The accused include five journalists with the Voice of America 's Amharic-language service in Washington .
They were charged in absentia with plotting to overthrow the Ethiopian government .
Ethiopia 's information minister told VOA English to Africa Service that the journalists have incited violence through their reports and he accused them of working with the opposition .
VOA officials reject the charges , and say they are an attempt to intimidate VOA journalists .
Bolivia 's president says energy companies affected by his nationalization of natural gas will not be compensated if they recouped their investments .
Speaking on the sidelines of the EU-Latin American summit , Evo Morales also urged Colombia , Peru and Ecuador not to ratify trade deals with the United States .
Latin American and European leaders are in Vienna , Austria , for a summit aimed at strengthening cooperation between the continents .
Bolivia 's move to nationalize energy resources was expected to be discussed .
The EU Commission for External Relations and Neighborhood Policy , Benita Ferrero-Waldner issued a statement Wednesday saying Europe will do everything it can to clear the way for closer trade partnerships .
But she said Latin American nations must overcome obstacles on their side .
Although the regional hub for trade and finance in East Africa , Kenya has been hampered by corruption and by reliance upon several primary goods whose prices have remained low .
In 1997 , the IMF suspended Kenya 's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Program due to the government 's failure to maintain reforms and curb corruption .
The IMF , which had resumed loans in 2000 to help Kenya through a drought , again halted lending in 2001 when the government failed to institute several anticorruption measures .
In the key December 2002 elections , Daniel Arap MOI 's 24-year-old reign ended , and a new opposition government took on the formidable economic problems facing the nation .
After some early progress in rooting out corruption and encouraging donor support , the KIBAKI government was rocked by high-level graft scandals in 2005 and 2006 .
In 2006 , the World Bank and IMF delayed loans pending action by the government on corruption .
The international financial institutions and donors have since resumed lending , despite little action on the government 's part to deal with corruption .
Post-election violence in early 2008 , coupled with the effects of the global financial crisis on remittance and exports , reduced GDP growth to 1.7 in 2008 , but the economy rebounded in 2009 - 10 .
Palestinian officials have confirmed that elections to replace president Yasser Arafat will be held on January 9 .
Caretaker President Rawhi Fattouh said Sunday the nominating period for candidates will begin November 20 , and run for 12 days .
The announcement of the vote comes three days after Mr. Arafat died in a Paris hospital .
He did not appoint a successor .
The new chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization , Mahmoud Abbas , will travel to Gaza today to meet with Mr. Arafat 's mourners and various Palestinian factions .
The former prime minister is widely expected to be chosen as the presidential candidate of the mainstream Fatah faction .
Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said today he will not rule out the possibility of allowing Palestinians living in disputed east Jerusalem to vote in the upcoming election .
Some Israelis fear allowing Palestinians in Jerusalem to vote would strengthen their claim on the city .
World rally driving champion Sébastien Loeb of France is in the lead after the first day of the Monte Carlo Rally , the season-opening event on the World Rally Championship circuit .
The two-time defending Monte Carlo champion drove his Citroën Xsara WRC to a total time of one hour , 18:46.09 .
Teammate Francois Duval of Belgium is second overall , 32.7 seconds behind Loeb .
Former world champion Marcus Grönholm of Finland is third overall in a Peugeot , more than one minute behind the French driver .
Norwegian Petter Solberg in a Subaru is fourth .
Loeb has won 10 rallies in his career , and last season became the first French driver since Didier Auriol to win the World title .
The Monte Carlo Rally continues through Sunday .
The island nation has been able to attract foreign business and investment , especially in its offshore banking and tourism industries , with a surge in foreign direct investment in 2006 , attributed to the construction of several tourism projects .
Although crops such as bananas , mangos , and avocados continue to be grown for export , tourism provides Saint Lucia 's main source of income and the industry is the island 's biggest employer .
Tourism is the main source of foreign exchange , although tourism sector revenues declined with the global economic downturn as US and European travel dropped in 2009 .
The manufacturing sector is the most diverse in the Eastern Caribbean area , and the government is trying to revitalize the banana industry , although recent hurricanes have caused exports to contract .
Saint Lucia is vulnerable to a variety of external shocks including volatile tourism receipts , natural disasters , and dependence on foreign oil .
The public debt-to-GDP ratio is about 77 % and high debt servicing obligations constrain the KING administration 's ability to respond to adverse external shocks .
Economic fundamentals remain solid , even though unemployment needs to be reduced .
Eminem and his ex-wife Kim Mathers have agreed not to publicly criticize each other .
The estranged couple say the March 26 decision arises from their desire not to hurt their 11-year-old daughter , Hailie .
Mathers , who has twice married and divorced the 34-year-old rap star , has frequently criticized her ex-husband 's lack of compassion and fidelity .
In return , Eminem has often assailed Kim in his lyrics .
The couple wed in 1999 , divorced in 2001 , remarried in January 2006 , and separated three months later .
Their second divorce was finalized in December .
Unidentified gunmen on Mexico 's Gulf coast have shot to death the news director of one of the most influential newspapers in Veracruz , the second shooting attack on Mexican journalists in one week .
Authorities Saturday say four assailants on Friday gunned down Raul Gibb Guerrero , director of the La Opinion newspaper , while he was driving his vehicle in northern Veracruz .
Earlier this week , radio reporter Guadalupe Garcia Escamilla was shot several times in Nuevo Laredo , near Mexico 's border with the United States .
Ms. Garcia was last reported to be in serious condition .
The two attacks come amid reports of a missing journalist in northern Mexico .
The media watchdog group , Reporters Without Borders , has called on authorities to investigate the disappearance of Alfredo Jimenez Mota , who was last seen April 2 .
Political leaders from across Iraq are meeting in Baghdad to try to remove obstacles blocking agreement on a new constitution .
President Jalal Talabani hosted Kurdish , Shi'ite and Sunni delegates Sunday and said an accord can be reached in time for parliament to approve the charter by an August 15 deadline .
Delegates remain deeply divided over key issues including federalism , national identity , and the role of Islam .
Earlier in the day , a suicide truck bomber killed at least five people outside a police station in Tikrit .
In Baghdad , at least five Iraqis were killed in drive-by shootings .
To the south , at least one person was killed and more than 40 were injured when hundreds of townspeople protesting poor public services clashed with police .
Niger has appealed for international help in battling an outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Officials Wednesday , said they need supplies like vaccines for unaffected poultry and protective suits for people destroying birds infected with the virus .
The World Animal Health Organization said Monday it had found the H5N1 strain among domestic ducks in southern Niger .
That outbreak was near the border with Nigeria , where H5N1 also was recently found .
Authorities are trying to stop the movement of poultry in the region and have placed affected farms under heightened surveillance .
Niger 's government says it will compensate farmers $ 1.80 ( 1,000 CFA francs ) for every bird destroyed when the culling process begins .
The U.S. Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation into the beating of a 64-year-old black man in flood-ravaged New Orleans .
The probe announced Monday was launched following the release of a videotape showing two uniformed New Orleans police officers punching Robert Davis in the face and body as he was being arrested for public drunkenness .
Another officer is shown shoving and screaming at a news producer who was documenting the confrontation .
Mr. Davis says he does not drink alcohol and was just out looking for cigarettes .
He told CNN television that the incident started after he called one of the police officers unprofessional for interrupting his talk with an officer on horseback .
Mr. Davis 's attorney says his client does not believe race was a factor in the Saturday night incident .
The three white police officers seen in the video have pleaded not guilty to battery charges .
Early results from Haiti 's presidential election indicate front-runner candidate Rene Preval has a commanding lead , and may be able to avoid a run-off election .
Officials say Preval , a former president , has won about 61 percent of the votes counted from Tuesday 's election .
Another former president , Leslie Manigat , is a distant second with 13 percent .
If the trend continues , Preval would have a clear majority of votes and avoid a run-off election next month .
Vote counting is said to be proceeding slowly as ballots trickle in to the capital , Port-au-Prince , by helicopter , truck and mule .
Brazil 's President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva says Brazilian peacekeeping forces will remain in Haiti until a new government is formed and can maintain security .
Brazil is the leader of the U.N. stabilization force in Haiti .
U.S. and Iraqi government forces have captured scores of suspected insurgents and seized an enormous stockpile of weapons and explosives during anti-insurgent operations in Iraq .
The U.S. military says 81 suspected rebels were rounded up Thursday in raids around Youssifiyeh , south of the capital , Baghdad .
Iraqi officials say Abu Saeed , a top lieutenant of wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , was captured in Mosul .
Military officials also say U.S. and Iraqi troops uncovered what they called the largest cache of weapons found so far , in a mosque in Fallujah .
The discovery came as Iraqi troops searching for suspected terrorist hideouts in Fallujah uncovered what appeared to be a chemical bomb factory .
Iraqi officials say the laboratory may have been used to make toxic substances and contained pamphlets on manufacturing anthrax .
Residents of the U.S. state of Florida are stocking up on gasoline , water and other supplies as Tropical Storm Katrina moves toward the area .
Forecasters expect the storm to bring heavy rainfall and possible flooding to much of southern and central Florida when it makes landfall later Thursday .
Hurricane and tropical storm warnings have been posted for many areas as the storm moves westward , away from the Bahamas and toward Florida 's southeast coast .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Katrina may gain strength and become a category one hurricane before reaching land .
At last report , the storm was packing winds of 85 kilometers per hour .
A tropical storm warning remains in effect for the northwest Bahamas .
Parts of Florida are still recovering from the four hurricanes that hit the state last year .
World oil prices hit a new record in Wednesday 's trading , hitting $ 99.29 a barrel before easing downward .
That is 67 cents above the previous record , which was set on November 7 .
Traders say the soaring prices stem from the declining value of the U.S. dollar and worries about the supply of oil in the Northern Hemisphere as winter approaches .
A U.S. Energy Department report Wednesday says the amount of oil available in the United States declined slightly last week by a bit more than one million barrels , to a total of nearly 314 million barrels .
The U.S. military says an American soldier has been killed in central Iraq .
A military statement released Friday said the soldier was shot dead while conducting combat operations Wednesday near the city of Iskandariyah , some 50 kilometers south of the capital , Baghdad .
Separately , Iraqi police say unidentified gunmen attacked two Sunni Mosques as worshippers attended Friday prayers near the mainly Shi'ite southern city of Basra .
At least one person was killed and several others wounded in the attacks .
Meanwhile , thousands of Shi'ite Muslims rallied Friday in Basra in a show of support for Iraq 's new constitution and the Shi'ite-dominated government .
Anti-constitution rallies were also reported in the city of Ramadi , west of Baghdad .
A referendum on the constitution is scheduled for October 15 .
An engineer thinks that his equations are an approximation to reality .
A physicist thinks reality is an approximation to his equations .
A mathematician does n't care .
Bulgaria , a former Communist country that entered the EU on 1 January 2007 , averaged more than 6 % annual growth from 2004 to 2008 , driven by significant amounts of foreign direct investment and consumption .
Successive governments have demonstrated a commitment to economic reforms and responsible fiscal planning , but the global downturn sharply reduced domestic demand , exports , capital inflows , and industrial production .
GDP contracted by approximately 5 % in 2009 , and stagnated in 2010 , despite a significant recovery in exports .
The economy is expected to grow modestly in 2011 , however .
Corruption in the public administration , a weak judiciary , and the presence of organized crime remain significant challenges .
The organizing committee for the Beijing Olympics says the torch relay for the 2008 Games will go on as planned in China 's Sichuan province next month .
Speaking in Beijing Tuesday , a spokesman for the committee said the earthquake in Sichuan will not affect the relay because the quake-stricken areas are not along the route .
The epicenter of Monday 's 7.9 magnitude earthquake was in Sichuan , and most of the confirmed deaths from the quake are in the province .
The Olympic torch relay continued Tuesday in the Chinese city of Longyan , in the eastern province of Fujian .
The torch is expected to reach Sichuan province next month , touring seven cities between June 15 to June 18 .
On Wednesday , the torch will head to Jiangxi Province , to the west of Fujian .
Vice President Dick Cheney says a premature withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq would be a victory for the terrorists and a blow to American national security .
In a speech in Washington Monday , Mr. Cheney responded to critics , including Democratic Congressman John Murtha , who say the U.S. military 's presence in Iraq has increased terrorism and instability in the Middle East .
Congressman Murtha 's call last week for U.S. troops to get out of Iraq sparked intense debate and drew stinging criticism from Republican legislators and White House officials .
Mr. Cheney Monday called Mr. Murtha " a good man and a patriot . "
But the vice president stood by his remarks that it is " dishonest and reprehensible " for some U.S. senators to say President Bush purposely misled the American people into the Iraq war .
The international aid organization Oxfam says Asia 's overall recovery from last year 's tsunami is moving ahead , but rebuilding efforts have been uneven .
An Oxfam study Monday says one of the most persistent problems has been providing permanent shelter to those who lost everything last year in the devastating earthquake and mammoth ocean waves that hit coastal areas of Indonesia , Sri Lanka , Thailand , India and other countries .
The report adds that 60 percent of all those whose jobs were swept away by the tsunami last December 26 have now returned to work .
Jeremy Hobbs , Oxfam 's executive director , says the most impressive aspects of the tsunami recovery have been the resilience of the tsunami victims and the generous response by ordinary people worldwide to appeals for help .
The United States has appealed to China to restore military ties , despite friction about U.S. arms sales to Taiwan .
Speaking to reporters at a security conference in Singapore Saturday , U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said China 's decision to break off military-to-military contacts earlier this year could undercut regional stability .
Gates said it is clear interruptions in the U.S. military relationship with China will not change Washington 's policy toward Taiwan .
Beijing broke off military-to-military contacts after the Obama administration notified Congress in January of a plan to sell Taiwan up to $ 6.4 billion worth of arms .
China also refused a proposed visit by Gates during his trip to Asia .
Gates said the arms sales are not a threat , because Washington does not support independence for Taiwan .
A key economic report says the global economy will be worse than first estimated this year , while a separate study says 2010 will be better than expected .
Thursday 's World Bank study says the global economy will shrink almost three percent this year , which is significantly worse than earlier estimates .
Bank experts say the downturn is likely to hit poor nations hard , even though financial markets in wealthy nations are stabilizing .
At the same time , news reports say the International Monetary Fund is raising its estimate of global economic growth for 2010 .
The reports on Bloomberg and Reuters quote unnamed sources saying the IMF is raising next year 's growth prediction to hit 2.4 percent .
That is a half a percent higher than earlier studies predicted .
The predictions come just ahead of a meeting of G8 finance ministers in Italy where the economic crisis tops the agenda .
NATO has expressed concern at the recent government crackdown in Uzbekistan and warned Tashkent that its ties with the alliance depended on its commitment to basic human rights .
A NATO statement , issued Tuesday in Brussels , said the alliance condemns the reported use of excessive force against protesters and supports the United Nations ' call for an independent inquiry into the events earlier this month .
Witnesses , human rights groups and Uzbek political opposition activists say the crackdown in the eastern part of the country killed up to 1,000 people .
But Tashkent puts the death toll at 169 , including 32 soldiers .
In another development , China today declared its support for the Uzbek government of President Islam Karimov , saying whatever happened in the country is an internal affair .
President Karimov is to visit Beijing Wednesday .
U.S. prosecutors say an Oregon teenager of Somali descent has been arrested in an alleged terrorist plot to car-bomb a Christmas tree lighting event in the northwestern city of Portland , Oregon Friday night .
Authorities say 19-year-old Mohamed Osman Mohamud was taken into custody by agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation after he dialed a cell phone intending to detonate a bomb , but instead rang for the FBI in a sting operation .
Mohamud had earlier been given phony explosives by undercover officers , who first learned of his alleged plot last year .
Prosecutors say Mohamud unwittingly unveiled his plan to undercover officers by e-mail several months ago , while believing he was contacting an accomplice in Pakistan .
Mohamud will appear in federal court in Portland Monday on a criminal complaint of attempting to use weapons of mass destruction .
Originally settled by Arawak Indians , Curacao was seized by the Dutch in 1634 along with the neighboring island of Bonaire .
Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade , Curacao was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in 1863 .
Its prosperity ( and that of neighboring Aruba ) was restored in the early 20th century with the construction of the Isla Refineria to service the newly discovered Venezuelan oil fields .
In 1954 , Curacao and several other Dutch Caribbean possessions were reorganized as the Netherlands Antilles , part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
In referenda in 2005 and 2009 , the citizens of Curacao voted to become a self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
The change in status became effective in October of 2010 with the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles .
Poland says recent U.S. proposals to strengthen the Polish military in return for hosting a missile defense system fall short of its demands .
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk told reporters in Warsaw Tuesday that the U.S. proposals have not reached a level that is satisfactory to Poland .
U.S. and Polish negotiators discussed the initiative last week .
The United States wants to install 10 land-based interceptor missile silos in Poland and associated radar bases in the Czech Republic .
Washington says the anti-missile system is intended to defend the United States and NATO allies against potential ballistic missile attacks by what it calls " rogue states , " notably Iran .
Russia has blasted the U.S. plan as a threat to Russian security .
Bosnia 's Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanic has resigned two days after the United States and the top International mediator in Bosnia-Herzegovina imposed new sanctions against the country 's Serb Republic .
Mr. Ivanic is chairman of the Serb Party of Democratic Progress , one of two Bosnian Serb political movements , whose leaders have been barred from entering the United States for undermining Balkan peace efforts .
The other is the Serb Democratic Party , founded by indicted war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic .
As the United States announced the measures , International mediator Paddy Ashdown fired six top Bosnian Serb police officers and three other government officials for failing to arrest war crimes suspects .
Mr. Ashdown acted under wide powers the international community granted him to insure compliance with the 1995 Dayton Peace accord that halted the Balkan conflict .
Bosnian Serb Prime Minister Dragan Mikerevic resigned Friday to protest the dismissals .
Israeli police say Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's personal secretary has been placed under house arrest for 10 days as part of a corruption probe - the latest political scandal to rock the Jewish state .
A spokesman says Shula Zaken was among more than 15 people questioned Tuesday in an investigation into government officials accepting or giving bribes in return for tax breaks .
Tax officials were among those questioned .
Reports say Mr. Olmert has not been targeted in the probe .
The Israeli prime minister has been the subject of several previous corruption investigations but has not been charged .
A British court has set a September trial date for five men accused of planning to detonate bombs on London 's transport system .
The defendants appeared before London 's Old Bailey court Thursday via videolink from a high-security prison .
No one was hurt in the July 21 attacks when four of the men , ranging in ages from 23 to 27 , tried to detonate bombs at three subway stations and a bus on July 21 .
A fifth man was arrested after explosives were discovered in his backpack in London .
The charges against the men include attempted murder , possession of explosives and conspiracy to murder .
The bomb attempts came two weeks after suicide bombers killed 52 people in the London subway system and a bus .
President Bush 's pick for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security says the White House was extremely supportive of his decision to withdraw from consideration for the post .
Bernard Kerik made the comment to reporters outside his home in New Jersey Saturday .
He said he informed the White House Friday of the decision to withdraw after uncovering tax and immigration problems related to a woman who was his family 's housekeeper and nanny .
President Bush nominated Mr. Kerik last week to succeed Tom Ridge .
Some analysts said he lacked the skills necessary to lead the 180,000-employee agency .
They also questioned his links to the Taser International stun gun company that earned him millions of dollars through stock options .
Mr. Kerik once served as New York City police commissioner under New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani .
The former mayor today described Mr. Kerik as a highly qualified candidate who made a mistake .
South Africa 's main labor federation has again criticized Zimbabwe 's government for organizing elections it says will not be free and fair .
The Congress of South African Trade Unions , COSATU , says it will hold a series of protests ahead of the March 31 poll , aimed to draw attention to alleged problems .
The group 's general secretary , Zwelinzima Vavi , says the result of the parliamentary vote is already decided , because President Robert Mugabe has skewed conditions in favor of his party .
South African officials have warned they will not tolerate illegal protests by the union group .
Labor officials say they are currently seeking permits for marches and a planned blockade of traffic along the border with Zimbabwe .
Earlier this year , Zimbabwe officials refused entry to a COSATU delegation planning to study voting conditions in the country .
The U.S. economy grew a bit faster than first estimated in the first three months of this year , but still expanded at a slow pace .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department puts the first quarter 's economic growth at nine-tenths of one percent .
That is three-tenths of a percent better than economists first thought , and a bit better than the growth rate for the last quarter of 2007 .
The world 's largest economy has been hurt by sagging housing market , tight credit , and soaring energy costs .
A separate government report from the Labor Department said the number of Americans signing up for unemployment assistance rose slightly last week - by 4,000 , to a total of 372,000 .
Pakistani security forces have detained at least 25 suspected Islamic militants in a series of raids linked to the July 7 London suicide bombings .
Officials in Punjab province say members of outlawed Islamist groups were among the people detained overnight in the cities of Dera Ghazi Khan , Multan , Faisalabad and Khushab .
They say the suspects are being questioned for possible links with three of the four London bombers - British-born Muslims of Pakistani origin who had visited Pakistan in the past year .
On Monday , Pakistani immigration officials released photographs of the three -
Mohammad Sidique Khan , Shehzad Tanweer and Hasib Hussain - taken upon their arrival in Karachi .
There was no official confirmation of reports that at least one of the bombers visited Islamic religious schools during the visits .
The South Korean leg of the Olympic Torch relay is under way in the capital of Seoul under heavy security .
Authorities say more than 8,000 riot police have been deployed to provide security for the relay .
At least two human rights groups have promised to try to disrupt the relay .
They want China to stop deporting North Korean refugees , who face stiff punishment or execution for fleeing the north .
The Japanese leg of the relay took place Saturday , with a few demonstrators throwing objects into the torch 's path and scuffles between protesters and police .
At least one person was detained as the torch made its way through the streets of the northern city of Nagano .
The torch run has been disrupted in other major cities in recent weeks by protesters condemning Chinese human rights practices , especially its forceful suppression of demonstrations in Tibet .
A lawyer charged a man $ 1,000 for legal services .
The man paid him in cash with crisp new $ 100 bills .
After the client left , the lawyer discovered that two bills had stuck together -- he 'd been overpaid by $ 100 .
The ethical dilemma for the lawyer : Should he tell his partner ?
Pakistani police say multiple gas cylinder explosions tore through a building in the city of Lahore , killing at least 24 people and injuring many more .
Witnesses say there were about 40 residents in the collapsed building , and that most were asleep when the blasts occurred Tuesday morning .
Officials say rescue workers were searching for people who were believed trapped in the rubble of the multi-story structure .
Police say the building had a gas cylinder storage area and an ice cream factory on the ground floor .
Several near-by buildings and a number of cars were also damaged .
Israeli forces have carried out air strikes on a vehicle and buildings linked to the Palestinian militant group , the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
Three Palestinian men were killed in a Gaza City attack while Israeli aircraft and artillery also targeted areas near the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun .
Israel launched the strikes Sunday after Palestinians fired rockets from Gaza into southern Israel on Friday .
Elsewhere , Israeli police say a knife-wielding Palestinian man killed a woman and wounded five other passengers on a bus near Tel Aviv .
Authorities say the man entered Israel from the West Bank .
Tensions between Israel and the Palestinians have risen in recent days after Israel killed a top commander of the Islamic Jihad militant group .
China is offering Taiwan a series of trade concessions in an effort to boost public sentiment on the island in favor of reunification with the mainland .
The concessions , announced Saturday , will add four types of Taiwan-grown fruit to a list of 18 varieties that can enter China .
They will also offer a tax-free import status to 11 kinds of vegetables and some Taiwan aquatic products .
The director of China 's Taiwan Affairs Office made the announcement in Beijing at the end of a government forum on cross-straits business .
The former chairman of Taiwan 's opposition party joined the forum , but representatives of Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian were absent .
Taipei and Beijing split amid civil war in 1949 .
China considers the island part of its territory and says it must accept reunification .
The head of the U.S. Central Bank says home prices could fall as the nation 's booming housing market inevitably slows down .
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan made the comment Saturday during concluding remarks at an economic summit in the western state of Wyoming .
He said that as the housing boom simmers down , home price increases will slow and that prices could even decrease .
One day earlier , Mr. Greenspan warned Americans not to assume that recent soaring home prices will continue forever .
He said increased buying power fueled by higher home prices could disappear if investors become cautious .
Large numbers of U.S. homeowners have taken out loans against the increased value of their homes to pay for renovations and other purchases , fueling much of the recent growth in the economy .
The new chief of the United Nations commission investigating the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has arrived in Beirut .
Belgian prosecutor Serge Brammertz says he is acutely aware of the expectations of victims ' families of the February attack and he will do his utmost to meet those expectations .
Brammertz replaces German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , who stepped down last month .
The U.N. investigation has already implicated several top Syrian officials in the killing of Mr. Hariri and at least 20 others in a massive bomb attack .
In October , the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution demanding Syria 's full cooperation with the probe .
But Syria 's president , Bashar al-Assad , has already rejected the commission 's request to interview him .
Damascus has denied it played any role in the assassination .
World oil prices soared to all-time highs Thursday in New York and London , as investors bet that rising demand for oil will outstrip supply .
The New York price of oil for future delivery went as high as 57 dollars and 50 cents a barrel in early trading Thursday .
In London , Brent crude rose to 56 dollars and 15 cents a barrel .
The surging oil price came even though the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries raised its official production quotas at a meeting in Iran on Wednesday .
Analysts say China , India , the United States , and other nations are all seeking additional oil to power their expanding economies , but OPEC has little unused capacity to supply additional crude oil .
OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the world 's oil .
A Mexican police commander has been shot to death outside his home in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo .
Authorities say Enrique Cardenas was killed Thursday as he left home to take his young daughter to school .
They say the killing took place one day after another local police commander was ambushed and wounded by assailants who opened fire from a moving car .
Officials say at least five other police officers have been killed in Nuevo Laredo since the beginning of the year in a wave of violence attributed to drug traffickers battling for territory .
Earlier this year , the U.S. State Department issued travel alerts on Nuevo Laredo , prompting an angry response from the Mexican government .
Afghan authorities say seven Taleban prisoners have escaped from Afghanistan 's main prison and 10 guards are being investigated for helping them break free or for negligence .
The director of Afghanistan 's prisons said Tuesday , the men broke out of Policharki Prison on the outskirts of the capital , Kabul , on Sunday .
He declined to identify the escaped prisoners , citing security reasons , but said security forces were searching for them .
Iraqi officials say at least three people were killed Thursday in a series of bomb attacks apparently targeting police and government officials .
Investigators say a suicide bombing outside of the federal police headquarters in the city of Mosul killed two police officers and left at least eight people wounded .
In Baghdad , a high-ranking security official died after a bomb attached to his car exploded .
A second official was wounded in the blast .
A separate car explosion in Baghdad injured a ministry official .
An audio recording purported to be of the leader of al-Qaida in Iraq has been posted on the Internet , four days after reports he had been killed in a clash among members of his insurgent group .
The voice said to be that of Abu Ayyub al-Masri denied reported internal fighting among Sunni Arab militants .
In the statement , posted on a militant Web site , Masri criticized the Iraqi Islamic Party headed by Vice President Tareq al-Hashimi for working with the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Iraq 's Interior Ministry said Tuesday intelligence reports indicated Masri had been killed in fighting north of Baghdad .
The U.S. military has not confirmed the report .
Masri , an Egyptian , assumed leadership of al-Qaida in Iraq from Abu Musab al-Zarqawi after the Jordanian militant was killed in a U.S. airstrike last June .
Japan has asked China to stop drilling for gas in a disputed area along the two countries ' sea border in the East China Sea .
A Japanese foreign ministry official said Wednesday , that his country deeply regrets China 's one-sided decision to start extracting natural gas from the region .
Beijing does not recognize Tokyo 's territorial claims in the area west of Japan 's southernmost islands .
However , it is not clear if the drilling is within what Japan considers its exclusive economic zone .
On Tuesday , China said it was within its rights to continue drilling in the area , but was willing to negotiate with Japan over the territorial waters .
Pakistani officials say missiles fired from a U.S. drone aircraft have killed at least five suspected militants in the northwest tribal region near the Afghan border .
Authorities say three missiles struck a compound Monday about 25 kilometers east of Miranshah , the main town in North Waziristan , a known insurgent stronghold .
In recent months , the United States has increased missile attacks by pilot-less drones against suspected al-Qaida and Taliban hide-outs in Pakistan 's northwest .
Elsewhere in the tribal region , officials said Monday that Taliban militants kidnapped and killed a pro-government tribal elder , Maulana Abdul Haleem , and dumped his body in Bajaur .
Clashes between Maoist militants and government forces in western Nepal have killed at least 24 people , as a rebel-blockade shut down major highways in the capital city .
Army officials say rebels attacked patrols in a remote area in far-western Nepal .
Officials said at least 22 guerrillas and two soldiers were killed in the fighting .
In the capital Kathmandu , Maoist rebels Thursday blocked major roads in and out of the city to protest alleged abuses by security forces .
The rebels are demanding information about their missing activists who , they say , disappeared while in custody .
A similar rebel road-block in Kathmandu for a week in August led to a shortage of essential supplies in the city .
Maoists rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
Several U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern about the possible nomination of Air Force General Michael Hayden to become the next director of the Central Intelligence Agency .
Senior Bush administration officials have said General Hayden may be named to replace Porter Goss , who announced his resignation on Friday .
But Republican Congressman Pete Hoekstra said a military official should not be in charge of the CIA because it is a civilian agency .
He told Fox News Sunday that the appointment of General Hayden could raise tensions between the CIA and defense officials .
Senators Diane Feinstein , a Democrat , and Saxby Chambliss , a Republican , also expressed concern over placing a military official in charge of the CIA .
But Republican Senator John McCain told CBS television that he hopes that , if nominated , General Hayden would be confirmed quickly in congressional hearings .
Here are the prices of some key commodities traded in New York on Tuesday :
The price of crude oil rose nearly $ 2 to settle at $ 121.79 a barrel .
Earlier , oil prices went as high at $ 122.73 a barrel , a record high .
Coffee prices rose more than one cent to finish the day at $ 1.329 a pound .
Copper prices fell more than $ 0.65 to close at $ 3.913 a pound .
And cocoa futures soared $ 91 to end at $ 2,781 a ton .
It 's Christmas Eve in the Holy Land and festivities have already begun in the little town of Bethlehem .
Palestinian boy and girl scouts are marching through Manger Square here in Bethlehem , kicking off Christmas Eve celebrations .
They are passing the ancient Church of the Nativity , the site where tradition says Jesus was born .
Religion is mixing with nationalism here : decorations include Christmas trees and lights and Palestinian flags .
Although Palestinians complain about Israel 's separation wall at the entrance to Bethlehem , the mood is upbeat this Christmas .
Bethlehem is enjoying a boom in tourism thanks to a lull in violence .
About 50,000 visitors are expected for Christmas , giving a boost to the Palestinian economy .
American gymnast Shawn Johnson is expected to be one of the brightest stars at the Beijing Olympic Games later this year .
For her coaches , a trip to the summer games would be a homecoming .
Elaine Lu and producer Liu Enming have more on the aspiring Olympian 's path to the Beijing games .
In Moscow , the lower house of Parliament has approved President Vladimir Putin 's controversial plan to end popular elections for Russia 's regional governors , and allow the Kremlin to appoint them instead .
Mr. Putin says such changes are necessary to block terrorists from trying to influence Russia 's local elections , but critics across the political spectrum say his plan is undemocratic .
The bill won final approval in the State Duma by a wide margin Friday .
It is expected to pass easily in the upper house .
The central government proposes that the Kremlin should select gubernatorial candidates , whose appointment would have to be confirmed by regional lawmakers .
If a provincial parliament rejects a governor chosen by Moscow , Mr. Putin could either dissolve the local body or over-rule its veto by appointing an acting governor .
Pakistani officials say suspected U.S. drone-fired missiles have struck a vehicle and a religious school building in an al-Qaida and Taliban stronghold , killing at least ten militants , including two foreigners .
The officials say the missiles hit in the Khaisor area of North Waziristan region , near the border with Afghanistan .
The victims have not yet been identified .
This is the latest of more than 40 suspected U.S. missile strikes on militant targets in northwest Pakistan over the past year .
Last week , a suspected U.S. drone ( unmanned ) aircraft fired a missile at a compound in South Waziristan , also near the Afghan border , killing at least 8 .
The United States rarely discusses the strikes , which Pakistan has criticized as counterproductive and a violation of its sovereignty .
These latest missiles hit as Pakistani security forces battle extremist militants elsewhere in northwestern Pakistan , around the Swat valley .
A medical student was working in the toxicology department at the poison control center .
A woman called in very upset because she caught her little daughter eating ants .
The medical student quickly reassured her that the ants are not harmful and there would be no need to bring her daughter into the hospital .
She calmed down , and at the end of the conversation happened to mention that she gave her daughter some ant poison to eat in order to kill the ants .
The student told the mother that she better bring her daughter in to the emergency room right away .
Seems that a year ago , some Boeing employees on the work field decided to steal a life raft from one of the 747s .
They were successful in getting it out of the plane and home .
When they took it for a float on the river , they were quite surprised by a Coast Guard helicopter coming towards them .
It turned out that the chopper was homing in on the emergency locator that is automatically activated when the raft is inflated .
They are no longer employed there .
A motorist was unknowingly caught in an automated speed trap that measured his speed using radar and photographed his car .
He later received in the mail a ticket for $ 40 and a photo of his car .
Instead of payment , he sent the police department a photograph of $ 40 .
Several days later , he received a letter from the police that contained another picture of handcuffs .
A woman was reporting her car as stolen , and mentioned that there was a car phone in it .
The policeman taking the report called the phone and told the guy that answered that he had read the ad in the newspaper and wanted to buy the car .
They arranged to meet , and the thief was arrested .
Taiwan 's president is calling for one million of his fellow citizens to take to the streets to protest China 's new anti-secession law .
Chen Shui-bian 's criticism came Wednesday in his first public comments since China 's parliament approved a bill authorizing military force if Taipei formally declares its independence .
He says the law will only heighten tensions across the Taiwan Strait , and that only peaceful dialogue will resolve the situation .
Mr. Chen says the mass protest planned for March 26 will show the world that only Taiwan can decide its future .
The president is also calling on the European Union to reconsider its plan to lift its 15-year-old arms embargo against Beijing .
The United States has urged Haiti to speed up planning for its elections , now scheduled for mid-December .
In New York Tuesday , U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns said Washington expects Port-au-Prince to work with greater speed and efficiency in organizing the elections .
The balloting for president and 129 parliamentary seats was first slated for October , then postponed until November .
Haiti 's interim prime minister , Gerard Latortue , told U.N. officials Tuesday the elections will now be held between December 11 and 18 .
Meanwhile , the U.N. Security Council urged Haitian authorities to work with the U.N. Stabilization Mission to develop an electoral plan .
It said national reconciliation and political dialogue should be promoted as a means to ensure long-term stability and good governance .
The elections will be the first since former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled the country in February 2004 .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber drove a truck into a checkpoint Monday in a town north of Baghdad , killing at least nine people .
Police say the victims were members of a neighborhood patrol ( known as Awakening Councils , ) set up to oppose al-Qaida militants .
Two other people were reported missing and believed to be dead .
The attack comes just days after the release of a new Internet message purportedly by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
He warned Iraqis not to take up arms against his movement or to support the unity government .
In a separate incident today , authorities said at least two Iraqi soldiers were killed and two others wounded when a roadside bomb struck their patrol near the Iranian border in Diyala province .
South Korea 's foreign minister says he is willing to travel to Pyongyang if it will help bring North Korea back to international nuclear disarmament talks .
Ban Ki-moon did not say if North Korea had extended an invitation .
But he said he is willing to make the trip if his efforts will help .
Six country talks on North Korea 's nuclear program have been stalled since last November .
The United States , China , Russia , Japan and South Korea were trying to convince North Korea to abandon its nuclear program entirely .
Work toward resuming negotiations intensified last month when North Korea test-fired several missiles .
British airport authorities say service should be back to normal Friday after strict new security measures caused a week of serious flight delays and cancellations .
Officials banned nearly all liquids and many carry-on items after police last week broke up an alleged plot to blow up passenger planes with liquid explosives .
British Airways canceled just 19 flights from London 's Heathrow Airport Thursday .
Heathrow is also scrambling to return thousands of pieces of luggage left behind by frustrated passengers .
Meanwhile , British and U.S. news reports say police investigating the alleged plot have found a suitcase filled with bomb-making components in the woods northwest of London .
One of the suspects lives in the area .
Twenty-three people , most of them British citizens of Pakistani descent , are in police custody in London .
Seven other suspects are jailed in Pakistan .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says talks between his Fatah party and the ruling militant group Hamas on forming a coalition government have broken down .
Mr. Abbas made the comment Wednesday in Ramallah before a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
Mr. Abbas ' Fatah faction has been locked in a power struggle with Hamas - even as the two sides tried to form a unity government .
Fighting between the sides has claimed 12 lives since Sunday .
In other news , Palestinian officials say unidentified gunmen killed a local Hamas leader , Mohammed Odde , as he left a mosque in a West Bank village .
On Tuesday , a militant faction linked to Fatah threatened to kill several Hamas leaders as part of the escalating power struggle .
The Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades warned in a leaflet that it will target exiled Hamas political leader Khaled Mashaal and two senior officials in the Palestinian interior ministry .
A FISHERMAN , engaged in his calling , made a very successful cast and captured a great haul of fish .
He managed by a skillful handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them to the shore ; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea .
Egypt 's political opposition is challenging President Hosni Mubarak 's election victory , saying the official vote count was fraudulent .
Challengers Ayman Nour , who came a very distant second to Mr. Mubarak , and Noaman Gomaa who finished third , continued to protest the results Saturday accusing the ruling National Democratic Party of tampering with the vote .
In central Cairo , opposition demonstrations were also planned .
But it appears Mr. Mubarak 's victory is final .
State-run television reported Saturday that parliament will hold an emergency session Wednesday to swear-in Mr. Mubarak for a fifth term that will end in 2011 .
Mr. Mubarak won Wednesday 's election with 88 percent of the vote .
But his victory was marred by reports of voting irregularities and low turnout - less than a quarter of the country 's 32 million registered voters cast ballots .
A British court has sentenced a Saudi prince to at least 20 years in prison for beating and strangling his aide in a London hotel .
A judge on Wednesday told Prince Saud Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Saud that no one is above the law .
Bandar Abdulaziz was found dead in a hotel room in February .
The prince had admitted to manslaughter , but denied intending to kill the man .
Prosecutors said the victim had been badly beaten and that his injuries showed there was a " sexual element " to the attack .
Two U.S. lawmakers have formed a caucus to help mobilize support for Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , and to bring attention to China 's rule over the Tibetan people .
Republican Congressman Dana Rohrabacher of California and Democrat Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii plan to co-chair the caucus .
In a statement Tuesday , Rohrabacher said he and Abercrombie urge other members of Congress to join the caucus to uphold the rights of Tibet 's people and give a voice to those silenced by China 's government .
Rohrabacher also said the U.S. can not hide behind the spirit of the Olympics this August in Beijing as an excuse to ignore what the congressman called China 's " horrifying " human rights record .
China has controlled Tibet since 1951 and accuses the Dalai Lama of seeking independence for the region .
The spiritual leader insists he only wants autonomy for Tibetans under Chinese sovereignty .
The Goldman Environmental Prize is awarded to environmental activists around the world annually for what the Goldman foundation calls " environmental grass roots heroism . "
The prize carries with it $ 150,000 and has been called the nobel prize for the environment .
This year 's winner from Europe is Belgium 's Ignace Schops .
VOA'S Paul Sisco has his story and the story of the national park he helped establish .
A U.S. military court in Afghanistan has sentenced an American soldier to six months confinement and a reduction in rank after finding him guilty of mistreating Afghan detainees .
Military officials say Sergeant Kevin Myricks was accused of punching detainees at a base in southern Uruzgan province .
He was convicted during a court martial Monday at Bagram air base near Kabul .
Another U.S. soldier accused in the same incident was sentenced on Friday to four months detention without pay and demotion .
U.S. military personnel have been accused in other instances of Afghan prisoner abuse .
But U.S. officials deny widespread mistreatment of those held in military custody .
THE People being dissatisfied with a Democratic Legislature , which stole no more than they had , elected a Republican one , which not only stole all they had but exacted a promissory note for the balance due , secured by a mortgage upon their hope of death .
A survey of U.S. households indicates that Americans are confident in the future of their economy , while a separate survey shows the rate of existing home sales in the U.S. continues to slip .
The rate of U.S. consumer confidence rose slightly in July in a monthly survey of American households .
The index rose more than a point to 106.5 .
Analysts had expected the index to fall slightly to 104 .
Experts say strong job prospects drove the increase , despite record high fuel prices .
In another survey , sales of previously owned homes fell more than a percent in June to 6.6 million , continuing an almost year-long slide .
Both surveys were released Tuesday .
Consumer confidence is widely seen as a gauge of spending and measures how consumers feel about the future of the economy .
The measure of home sales is seen as a barometer of activity in the housing sector .
Israel is now allowing Israelis and tourists to bring the iPad , Apple 's new tablet computer , into the country , instead of having them confiscated by customs agents .
Israel 's Ministry of Communications says that after a technical review with the U.S. computer maker , officials are now allowing the latest gadget into the country .
The devices confiscated during the past two weeks will be returned to their owners .
Israel initially banned the iPad because it feared the computers wireless signal had the potential to disrupt other devices , and was more powerful that European standards allowed .
Apple said it sold some 500,000 units of the iPad computer in the week after its U.S. debut on April 3 .
The company says it expects demand for the device to exceed supply in the coming weeks .
The computer maker said it will announce international pricing and begin taking online orders on May 10 .
The full U.S. Senate has begun its debate on President Bush 's nominee to the Supreme Court , Samuel Alito .
The Senate Judiciary Committee Tuesday confirmed Alito on a party-line vote .
The committee 's 10 Republicans approved the nomination , while the eight Democrats on the panel rejected the conservative federal judge .
Democratic Senate Leader Harry Reid said he plans to oppose the nomination , saying he believes Alito would not be an independent check on the executive branch at a time when the president is abusing power .
But South Carolina Republican Lindsay Graham dismissed Democratic party opposition , saying they are merely playing politics with the nomination .
The Republican-controlled Senate is expected to confirm Alito , perhaps by the end of this week .
He would replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , a moderate who has been an important swing vote in many cases .
The Venezuelan Supreme Court had ruled in favor of a lower court petition seeking extradition from the United States of a Cuban militant wanted in connection with the 1976 bombing of a Cuban Jet liner that killed 73 people .
A statement from the Supreme Court Tuesday said Luis Posada Carriles should be tried in Venezuela .
Mr. Posada escaped from a Venezuelan prison before he could be tried in 1985 over the bombing .
He was later jailed in Panama where he was accused in a plot to kill Cuban President Fidel Castro .
He was pardoned last year on that charge .
Mr. Posada applied for asylum in the United States last month .
Talks have begun in Vienna between Iranian negotiators and the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency .
Iran 's delegation to Tuesday 's meeting on Tehran 's controversial nuclear program is headed by the country 's deputy national security chief , Javad Vaeidi , and Ali Asghar Soltanieh , Iran 's ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Commission .
The IAEA delegation is led by senior inspector Olli Heinonen .
Neither side made any comment as the talks began .
The U.N. Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions on Iran because of its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment .
Enriched uranium and plutonium can be used to build nuclear weapons , but Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes .
The United States and its Western allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
India has reported new cases of bird flu in nearly 200 villages in the western state of Maharashtra , the site of two earlier outbreaks this year .
Officials say they suspect the virus could be the deadly H5N1 strain and tests are underway on samples from the birds .
No cases were reported in humans .
Officials say some 250,000 birds would have to be culled .
Reports from the region say the affected villages are in the neighboring states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh .
The affected region includes Maharashtra 's Jalgaon district , which also reported India 's second set of infections of H5N1 earlier this month .
Meanwhile , a European laboratory has confirmed that a buzzard found dead in Denmark two weeks ago was infected with the deadly strain of bird flu .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the world may soon face what he calls a " cascade " of countries acquiring nuclear weapons .
Mr. Annan says relying on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is not enough and proposes new , joint action , including tougher inspection rules .
His comments at a security conference in Germany Sunday come as concerns grow over North Korea and Iran 's nuclear programs .
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer struck a tougher tone on Iran , telling the conference Tehran could be referred to the U.N. Security Council if it resumes nuclear enrichment activities .
Germany , France and Britain have been leading diplomatic efforts to persuade Iran to not develop nuclear weapons , which Tehran says it is not trying to do .
The United States has called for a tougher line with the country
President Bush and Bolivian President Evo Morales have agreed on the need for constructive relations and dialogue between their nations .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan says Mr. Bush telephoned Mr. Morales to congratulate him on his election and inauguration and that Mr. Bush commended the Andean nation 's strong commitment to democracy .
The spokesman also says Mr. Morales outlined his agenda for social and economic change in Bolivia .
The United States has adopted a " wait-and-see " approach towards Mr. Morales , who has been a vocal opponent of U.S. drug and trade policies .
The call comes as Mr. Morales faces the first crisis of his presidency .
Heavy rains have caused floods that have killed at least 13 people , leaving tens of thousands homeless .
Pakistan 's election commission has announced the final list of three candidates for the upcoming presidential election .
The commission said Saturday regional and national lawmakers will be able to choose from Pakistan Peoples Party co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari , retired judge Said-uz Zaman Siddiqui and Mushahid Hussain Sayed .
Siddiqui is aligned with the Pakistan Muslim League-N party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , while Sayed represents the party of former President Pervez Musharraf .
Mr. Musharraf resigned last week following a series of carefully orchestrated no-confidence votes in parliament .
He lost public support after he declared a state of emergency and fired several judges who planned to rule on the legitimacy of his presidency .
The election is set for September 6 .
Malawi 's high court has ordered Vice President Cassim Chilumpha reinstated to his office , and his salary and benefits restored in full .
President Bingu wa Mutharika fired Chilumpha last month in a letter , citing his poor attendance at cabinet meetings and his unwillingness to move to Lilongwe , the capital of the southern African country .
Chilumpha protested the letter , saying that only Parliament has the power to dismiss him .
In its ruling , the high court said the firing was suspended pending judicial review , which will be scheduled later .
President Mutharika and Chilumpha were running mates in the 2004 elections , but have been feuding publicly since the president quit the United Democratic Party to set up his own political party .
The Democratic Republic of Congo has transferred a militia leader to the International Criminal Court in the Hague to face war crimes charges .
The head of the Union of Congolese Patriots , Thomas Lubanga , was being flown from the capital Kinshasa to the court 's headquarters Friday .
The court issued an arrest warrant for Lubanga last month , but it was not made public until Friday .
The court says there are reasons to believe Lubanga enlisted children under the age of 15 to participate in fighting .
The rebel leader is to become the first person processed by the court .
Lubanga has been detained in Kinshasa since his arrest in March 2005 .
His group , dominated by ethnic Hema rebels , is accused of committing widespread human rights violations in Congo 's northeastern Ituri district .
Congo 's five-year civil war ended in 2003 .
The head of South Africa 's football association has announced that the shoes used by the national team 's Siphiwe Tshabalala to score the first goal of the 2010 World Cup will become a " historic monument . "
SAFA chief executive Leslie Sedibe told a parliamentary committee Tuesday that the shoes will be displayed at SAFA headquarters in Johannesburg .
In a memorable start to World Cup , Tshabalala gave South Africa a 1-0 lead over Mexico in the opening match at Soccer City in Johannesburg .
The match ended in a 1-1 draw .
Sedibe says Siphiwe Tshabalala knows those shoes do not belong to him " because of the historic symbolism they represent . "
He added that the shoes represent hope and what South Africa can deliver on a world stage .
Israel says residents of a small Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip have agreed to relocate to Israel , rather than resist the planned removal of all settlers from the occupied territory next year .
The official in charge of the Israeli government plan to evacuate all 8,000 Gaza settlers next year says 25 families in the Pe'at Sadeh settlement will voluntarily move together to southern Israel in March .
The settlement would be the first to be dismantled under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's evacuation plan , which has drawn calls for resistance from the top settler council .
The Sharon government has offered cash incentives for Gaza settlers willing to leave before the withdrawal , which is scheduled to begin in about eight months .
President Bush will meet with British Prime Minister Tony Blair next Friday in Washington for talks on the Middle East crisis .
The White House says the two leaders will discuss efforts to secure " a lasting peace " in the region .
They will also talk about the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan , as well as efforts to stop the violence in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Also on the agenda will be Iran 's nuclear ambitions and ways to stop Tehran from getting the technology to build nuclear weapons .
The two men will also discuss ways to promote free and fair trade .
The White House announcement of the visit Friday , noted that the United States " has no closer ally and partner than the United Kingdom . "
Mr. Blair 's support for Mr. Bush 's policies , especially on Iraq , have prompted a backlash from critics in Britain .
South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun has instructed prosecutors to consider reopening a probe into a financial scam allegedly involving the front-running presidential candidate .
In a statement released Sunday , Mr. Roh said a videotape had surfaced in which frontrunner Lee Myung-bak admitted having founded the company at the center of the 2001 scandal .
Lee , a former Hyundai executive and Seoul mayor running as the Grand National Party 's candidate , has been heavily favored to win Wednesday 's election .
Lee was suspected of involvement in a scam in which his ex-partner , Kim Gyeong-jun , allegedly manipulated the price of stocks in a company he owned .
South Korean prosecutors announced earlier this month that they had found no evidence that the conservative politician was involved in stock market manipulation .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has chaired his first Cabinet meeting since undergoing gallbladder surgery last month in Germany .
Mr. Mubarak met with Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif and several other government ministers Thursday in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh .
Mr. Mubarak temporarily handed over power to Prime Minister Nazif before undergoing surgery in Heidelberg , Germany on March 6 .
Doctors removed his gallbladder and a growth in his small intestine .
The 81-year-old president 's absence from public functions had set off new speculation about his frail health .
Mr. Mubarak has ruled Egypt for nearly 30 years .
His ruling party is expected to dominate in parliamentary elections later this year and Mr. Mubarak is expected to run for president again next year .
Many political experts also believe President Mubarak is grooming his son , Gamal , to take over .
Irish quartet U2 rocked the French seaside resort of Cannes early on May 20 , prior to the premiere of its three-dimensional concert film .
Titled U2 3D , the full-length movie was shot in South America during the band 's 2006 " Vertigo " tour .
Producer John Modell said the digital production heralds a new wave of three-dimensional filmmaking .
" We are replicating the physiology of sight , " Modell said .
" If you get it off by just a hair it creates actual physical problems - eye strain , nausea .
We do n't have that at all . "
The production will only be shown in 3D .
At present , about 700 screens are equipped with the Real D 3D system on which the film will initially show .
Most are in the United States .
Real D chairman Michael Lewis predicted the number will soon rise to 1,000 worldwide .
The curator of the Beijing Palace Museum arrived in Taiwan Sunday to arrange a local exhibition of Chinese relics .
The four-day visit by Zheng Xinmiao follows an unprecedented visit to Beijing last month by the director of Taipei 's National Palace Museum .
Beijing has agreed to send 29 Qing Dynasty ( 1644 - 1911 ) relics to Taiwan for a joint exhibition in October .
The bulk of artifacts in Taipei 's main museum were taken from the Forbidden City by the Nationalists as they fled the Chinese mainland at the end of the civil war in 1949 .
The Taiwan museum holds around 650,000 items spanning 7,000 years of Chinese history .
Japan 's foreign minister has warned North Korea that time is running out to stop its nuclear weapons program before Tokyo and its allies impose economic sanctions .
In an interview on Japan 's NHK television Sunday , Nobutaka Machimura said that if the situation continues for a year or two , the issue will have to be sent to the UN Security Council .
Mr. Machimura said Tokyo could also start economic sanctions if Pyongyang does not tell the truth about eight of 13 Japanese citizens who were abducted to train spies during the Cold War .
North Korea says the eight are dead , but Japan suspects they could still be alive .
Two sets of remains turned over last month proved not to be those of two abductees .
The host Italian Olympic team has suffered a blow just days before the start of the Turin Games , with the loss of two ski jumpers .
Marco Beltrame and Stefano Chiapolino were seriously injured Tuesday during pre-Olympic training at Predazzo .
The 19-year-old Beltrame was admitted to a local hospital , in Belluno where he had his spleen removed .
Chiapolino was treated at another hospital , in Cavalese .
The 20-year-old Olympic teammate had several small fractures to his face and a slight concussion .
With the loss of two of its five ski jumpers , the Italian Olympic team will not be able to field a four-person squad in the team event on February 20 .
Opening ceremonies for the Games are Friday .
The Olympics run through February 26 .
Bolivia 's President Evo Morales has announced that his government will take over the operations of the Chaco oil company , as part of efforts to nationalize the country 's resources .
Mr. Morales Friday visited Chaco , in which the British company BP is a majority stakeholder .
He presented the nationalization move as a gain for the Bolivian people , saying " little by little we are taking back our companies . "
The left-leaning president won election on a platform of economic reform , pledging to share the country 's energy wealth among the impoverished indigenous majority .
He has already nationalized several key energy companies .
Today 's take-over of Chaco comes just days before Bolivians vote on a new constitution backed by Mr. Morales .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder says China has expressed support for his country 's candidacy for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council .
Mr. Schroeder spoke with reporters Tuesday in Beijing after talks with Chinese President Hu Jintao .
Germany is one of several countries , including India , Brazil and Japan that are seeking a permanent seat on the Security Council .
Monday , Mr. Schroeder met with Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
Chinese officials signed an agreement to buy European-built Airbus jetliners and German-made goods , including locomotives .
The German chancellor opposes the European Union 's ban on weapons sales to China , imposed after the bloody 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing .
His stand has been criticized by opponents in Germany , and the European Parliament renewed the sanctions last month .
Mr. Schroeder travels to Tokyo Wednesday for talks with Japanese officials .
Russian bombers left Venezuela , one week after arriving in the South American country to conduct military exercises .
The Russian news agency Itar-Tass reports that the two strategic bombers took off from Caracas in the early morning hours Thursday .
While in the region , the bombers conducted air patrol flights over neutral waters in the Caribbean .
Itar-Tass says the bombers will patrol neutral waters in the Atlantic and North Arctic Oceans before returning to Russia on Friday .
The Tu-160 bombers arrived in Venezuela September 10 , days after Russia announced it would send a naval squadron and anti-submarine aircraft to Venezuela for possible joint military exercises in November .
Russia 's military exercises later this year would be its first major maneuvers in the Western Hemisphere since the Cold War .
Coconuts , grown throughout the islands , are the sole cash crop .
Small local gardens and fishing contribute to the food supply , but additional food and most other necessities must be imported from Australia .
There is a small tourist industry .
Britain 's Court of Appeal has rejected the British government 's attempt to stop an Australian terror suspect from seeking British citizenship .
The suspect , David Hicks , is being held at the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Hicks ' mother was born in Britain and he has sought British citizenship hoping London would secure his release from Guantanamo , as it did for several British nationals held there .
Hicks , a convert to Islam , was captured by U.S. forces in Afghanistan in 2001 and accused of being an al Qaeda fighter .
The British government had refused his citizenship bid because of his alleged involvement with terrorism .
Britain 's High Court rejected that position in December , and the Court of Appeals upheld the decision Wednesday .
Police in Spain 's North African enclave of Ceuta have arrested at least 11 suspected Islamic militants .
Police sources say forces sent by boat from the Spanish mainland carried out the sweep in pre-dawn raids early Tuesday across the tiny enclave on Morocco 's northwestern coast .
Authorities identified two of the detainees as brothers of Hamed Abderrahaman Ahmed , a Spaniard who spent two years in detention at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , after his 2001 capture near the Afghan-Pakistani border .
Authorities say Ahmed , who was released earlier this year by a Spanish court , was not among those arrested today .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes Spanish anti-terror services as saying authorities were alerted when a group linked to al-Qaida posted a document on the Internet calling for " a war against the infidel Spanish state . "
Macedonia gained its independence peacefully from Yugoslavia in 1991 .
Greece 's objection to the new state 's use of what it considered a Hellenic name and symbols delayed international recognition , which occurred under the provisional designation of " the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia . "
In 1995 , Greece lifted a 20-month trade embargo and the two countries agreed to normalize relations .
The United States began referring to Macedonia by its constitutional name , Republic of Macedonia , in 2004 and negotiations continue between Greece and Macedonia to resolve the name issue .
Some ethnic Albanians , angered by perceived political and economic inequities , launched an insurgency in 2001 that eventually won the support of the majority of Macedonia 's Albanian population and led to the internationally-brokered Ohrid Framework Agreement , which ended the fighting by establishing a set of new laws enhancing the rights of minorities .
Fully implementing the Framework Agreement and stimulating economic growth and development continue to be challenges for Macedonia , although progress has been made on both fronts over the past several years .
A car bomb attack south of the Iraqi capital has killed at least 10 people , while the death toll from a series of coordinated blasts Thursday north of Baghdad has risen to nearly 100 .
In Friday 's attack , police say a bomb blast tore through a crowded market in the mainly Shi'ite city of Hillah .
More than 40 other people were injured in the explosion .
Meanwhile , hospital officials said the death toll from three nearly simultaneous car bomb attacks Thursday in the northern city of Balad had risen to 99 .
Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility for that attack in an unverifiable Internet statement .
The group , which is led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , has declared war on the country 's majority Shi'ites , ahead of the October 15 constitutional referendum .
Negotiators in Beijing will resume work Sunday on forging an agreement to end the North Korean nuclear crisis .
China presented a draft statement Saturday , and U.S. envoy Christopher Hill said the draft represents a good basis for the negotiations .
Mr. Hill said he expects the Sunday session to be devoted to building a final text .
Negotiators from both Koreas , China , Russia , Japan and the United States are involved in the talks .
Mr. Hill said there is a consensus on making the Korean peninsula nuclear-free , but he added that obstacles remain .
Diplomats have said Pyongyang is sticking to its demand that it receive aid and security guarantees before dismantling its nuclear programs , while Washington wants to see the programs scrapped first .
The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo , Joseph Kabila , has married his longtime girlfriend in the country 's capital , Kinshasa .
The nuptials come just weeks before Congo 's first free national elections in four decades .
Mr. Kabila presides over an interim government in the chaotic central African country .
He is one of 33 candidates for president in the elections , scheduled for July 30 .
Mr. Kabila assumed the presidency of Congo in 2001 following the assassination of his father , former rebel and President Laurent Kabila .
The 34-year-old Joseph Kabila married Olive Sita di Lembe on Saturday in a religious ceremony presided by Catholic and Protestant clergy .
They held a civil ceremony on Friday .
The two have been dating for six years .
They have a five-year-old daughter .
Zimbabwe 's state-run newspaper reports police have arrested nearly 15,000 people in a new crackdown on illegal vendors .
The Herald reports that over the last two weeks , police have rounded up 14,706 individuals whom the paper described as street people , touts and illegal currency and fuel dealers .
The report says the operation was designed as a follow-up to " Restore Order , " when Zimbabwe 's government destroyed unauthorized dwellings and market stalls in what it said was a bid to end urban crime .
The newspaper says criminals were returning to the same neighborhoods .
A United Nations fact-finding mission called the policy disastrous and inhumane .
It estimated some 700,000 people lost their homes and businesses .
Zimbabwe has promised to build new housing for those it displaced .
France 's foreign minister says European states could impose unilateral sanctions on Iran if the United Nations fails to pass its own sanctions .
Bernard Kouchner told reporters in Finland Sunday that efforts should first be devoted to passing a resolution in the U.N. Security Council .
But he said if that does not happen , France may propose sanctions on Iran 's banks and insurance companies , and on travel permits for specific people .
Kouchner spoke to reporters outside a meeting of European Union foreign ministers in northern Finland .
On Saturday , his Finnish counterpart , Alexander Stubb , said there was enough agreement within the EU to impose unilateral sanctions on Iran .
Western members of the U.N. Security Council support a fourth round of sanctions against Iran , but veto-wielding China is urging more diplomacy .
Western nations accuse Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon .
Tehran says it is working on nuclear energy projects .
Pakistani officials say heavy rains led to the deaths of 228 people in the southern city of Karachi on Saturday .
Officials had earlier said 43 people were killed in the storm , however , the number increased when the bodies of 185 more victims were identified Sunday .
Many people were killed when the roofs and walls of their homes collapsed .
Others were killed or injured by power lines downed in the storm .
Weather forecasters expect the heavy rains to continue through Monday .
Saudi Arabia 's ambassador to the United States , Prince Turki al-Faisal , has resigned from his post and has left Washington .
Prince Turki reportedly made the announcement to his staff in Washington on Monday , citing personal reasons .
The prince held the post for a year-and-a-half , succeeding Prince Bandar bin Sultan , who left for personal reasons after 22 years on the job .
The Washington Post newspaper says colleagues of Prince Turki said they were shocked at Monday 's announcement .
The newspaper also says the departure comes as his brother , Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal , is in ill health , noting rumors that Prince Turki could be a possible replacement for Prince Saud .
Iran has officially confirmed it has detained an Iranian American in Tehran a week after the United States demanded his release and the release of three other Iranian-Americans .
A foreign ministry spokesman confirmed the detainment of Ali Shakeri , a peace activist from California Sunday .
Iranian officials previously accused three of the dual nationals of endangering national security , but no information has been given about Shakeri .
President Bush has called for the detainees to be freed " immediately and unconditionally . "
He said the four pose no threat to Iran .
He noted they were in Iran either to visit family or conduct humanitarian work .
New opinion polls indicate Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's new party will win a large number of seats in March 's parliamentary elections .
The polls were published Friday in the Ma'ariv and Yedioth Ahronoth newspapers .
They say the new party would win at least 33 seats in the 120-member parliament .
The polls gave the Labor party at least 26 seats and Mr. Sharon 's former party , Likud , just 13 .
Mr. Sharon quit Likud - the party he co-founded in 1973 - because he said the party was no longer able to lead Israel to its national goals .
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning has found another place in the National Football League record book while leading his team to a 41-9 victory in Detroit over the Lions .
Manning threw six touchdowns Thursday and raised his season total to 41 scoring passes .
Manning set an NFL record with at least four touchdown passes in a fifth straight game .
The retired Dan Marino had a four-game streak with at least four touchdowns in 1984 , when he also set a record 48 scoring passes in a single season .
Two struggling teams played in Dallas , where a late scoring burst gave the host Cowboys a 21-7 win over the Chicago Bears .
Julius Jones had two touchdowns for Dallas , including his first career NFL score .
The city of Washington is widely known for a keen appreciation of the social arts :
Politics , for example or the fine art of diplomacy .
But an important development in the history of the visual arts had its origins here as well .
It is called the " Color Field " movement , and it is the subject of a major new exhibition now underway in the nation 's capital .
As VOA 's George Dwyer reports , the passing of years appears to have cast this colorful school of painting in a whole new light .
Kidnappers in Haiti have released an American missionary , one day after seizing him at gunpoint outside the capital , Port-au-Prince .
Haitian police officials say Phillip Snyder was freed Friday after kidnappers received a ransom payment .
Mr. Snyder 's condition , as well as the amount of his ransom payment , are unclear .
In a separate incident , kidnappers released a group of children Thursday , after abducting them from a school bus hours earlier .
Police said the children were unharmed .
Some media report the abductors were paid an unspecified ransom .
But the Associated Press quotes a police commissioner as denying any ransom was paid .
Neither case was considered to be politically motivated .
Police in Iran have warned that they will confront any opposition protests on the anniversary of the country 's disputed June presidential election .
Iran 's ILNA news agency quoted Tehran police chief General Hossein Sajedinia as saying that police will confront any illegal gathering .
Opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi have called on supporters to take part in peaceful protests to mark the June 12 election , which returned President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to power .
Iran 's opposition accuses Mr. Ahmadinejad of rigging the election , adding that Mr. Mousavi was the rightful winner .
Thousands of people were arrested in the post-election protests that left several demonstrators dead .
More than 80 people were sentenced to prison terms of up to 15 years in connection with the demonstrations .
Several other activists face death sentences .
Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has recommended the United Nations extend its mission in Haiti through February 2008 .
In a report issued Tuesday , Mr. Annan said the primary responsibility for socio-economic development and building security is with Haiti 's leadership and people .
But he said international help remains essential .
Meanwhile , the Haitian-born spokeswoman for new U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon tells the Associated Press she hopes to use her office to publicize human rights abuses around the world , but especially in her home country .
Former broadcast journalist Michele Montas and her husband , Jean Dominique , were persecuted in Haiti for reports critical of the government .
Dominique was assassinated in 2000 .
Montas survived two attempts on her life before going into exile .
She told the Associated Press she remains mindful of her Haitian identity and hopes to return to her homeland someday .
But she said that is not possible now .
A U.S. newspaper says HIV / AIDS among infants in the United States may be nearly eliminated by next year .
The New York Times reports Sunday that the number of infants born in the United States with AIDS or HIV , the virus that causes AIDS , has dropped to about 200 a year , from nearly 2,000 in 1990 .
It said in New York City alone , the figure has dropped from 321 in 1990 to just five in 2003 because of success in fighting mother-to-child transmission .
The paper said that was achieved through use of better drugs , public education and testing , and cooperation at federal and local levels .
But the report warned that much of the rest of the world continues to be ravaged by AIDS , including more than two million people in sub-Saharan Africa last year .
Hurricane Katrina has battered southern Florida with high winds and heavy rain , leaving at least three people dead before moving out over the Gulf of Mexico .
The 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season came ashore Thursday between Hallandale Beach and North Miami Beach , packing 130 kilometer-per-hour winds .
It knocked down trees , flooded streets and left more than one million people without power .
The U.S. National Weather Service says Katrina temporarily lost some strength early Friday , but regained hurricane status as it moved over the Gulf of Mexico .
Forecasters anticipate the storm will turn north in the Gulf as it strengthens and could strike Florida 's panhandle in the coming days .
There are 27 coral islands in the group .
Captain William KEELING discovered the islands in 1609 , but they remained uninhabited until the 19th century .
From the 1820s to 1978 , members of the CLUNIE-ROSS family controlled the islands and the copra produced from local coconuts .
Annexed by the UK in 1857 , the Cocos Islands were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955 .
The population on the two inhabited islands generally is split between the ethnic Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on Home Island .
U.S. President Barack Obama has extended sanctions on Burma 's military government for another year .
Mr. Obama informed Congress of the decision Friday , saying Burma is " engaging in large-scale repression of the democratic opposition . "
He added that Burma 's actions and policies are hostile to U.S. interests , and they pose a continuing threat to U.S. national security and foreign policy .
The existing sanctions on Burma must be renewed annually .
They were set to expire next week .
For 715 years , from 1278 to 1993 , Andorrans lived under a unique co-principality , ruled by French and Spanish leaders ( from 1607 onward , the French chief of state and the Spanish bishop of Seu d'Urgell ) .
In 1993 , this feudal system was modified with the titular heads of state retained , but the government transformed into a parliamentary democracy .
For decades Andorra enjoyed its status as a small refuge of fiscal and banking freedom and benefitted from Spanish and French tourists attracted to the country 's duty-free shopping .
The situation has changed in recent years as Andorra started to tax foreign investment and other sectors .
Tourism accounts for over 80 % of Andorra 's gross domestic product .
A security official in Pakistan says a suspected U.S. drone fired missiles at a building used by Taliban militants in Pakistan 's Kurram tribal region , near the Afghan border .
Witnesses say at least 12 people were killed in the missile attack .
The security official did not immediately confirm the witnesses ' claims .
If verified , this would be the first suspected drone attack in Kurram .
The strike comes just days after the new U.S. envoy to the region , Richard Holbrooke , visited Pakistan to talk to senior officials about security in the border region .
There have been more than 30 similar missile strikes on Pakistani territory since the middle of last year , despite the public objections of the Pakistani government .
The strikes have generally targeted al-Qaida and Taliban militants .
The White House has strongly condemned Friday 's rocket attack at the Jordanian Red Sea port of Aqaba where two American naval ships were docked .
A statement says the United States condemns all such attacks , and that U.S. officials are investigating in cooperation with Jordan .
U.S. military officials say it is safe to conclude that the two warships , the USS Ashland and the USS were the main target .
One of the rockets hit a military warehouse , killing a Jordanian soldier .
Another exploded near a military hospital .
The third rocket landed about 15 kilometers away , on the Israeli side of the border near the town of Eilat .
It did not explode .
Jordanian security forces have launched a massive hunt for four individuals suspected of firing the Katyusha rockets .
A group linked to al-Qaida has claimed responsibility in an unverifiable Internet statement .
In southeast Texas , colonies made up of billions of so-called " crazy ants " are making life difficult for homeowners and others .
Researchers at Texas A & M University are working with environmental officials and pest control experts to find ways to top the spread of the invasive species .
It has been fouling electrical devices , overwhelming other insect species , and raising concerns over the health of the Texas ecosystem .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
Afghan authorities say at least two Taleban insurgents have been killed and six others captured , while two Afghan soldiers and a civilian were wounded in separate incidents .
Local officials say the militants were killed overnight in southern Helmand province after Taleban forces attacked a police post there .
No police casualties were reported .
In another incident late Monday , in southeastern Paktika province , security forces arrested six insurgents following a brief exchange of fire .
A spokesman for the provincial governor said a mid-level Taleban commander , Mullah Akhtar Mohammad , is among the arrested .
And , in eastern Khost province , at least two Afghan soldiers and a civilian were wounded when an army vehicle was struck by a roadside bomb .
Afghanistan 's southern regions have seen some of the worst fighting in recent months since the Taleban regime was ousted from power in 2001 .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has condemned the Uzbek government 's crackdown on protesters in the city of Andijon .
Speaking Sunday on the BBC , Mr. Straw said there had been a clear abuse of human rights , and urged Uzbek officials to allow foreign observers and international aid groups such as the Red Cross to survey the situation .
The Associated Press says that an Uzbek foreign ministry statement called Mr. Straw 's comments ill-informed .
Meanwhile , Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov blamed regional extremists , including Afghanistan 's Taleban , for the violence .
But the New York-based Human Rights Watch organization argues that the Uzbek government can not use the war on terror to justify shooting demonstrators protesting poverty and repression .
Tibetans living in India are preparing to demonstrate in New Delhi during the four-day official visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao that begins Monday .
Members of the Tibet Youth Congress said they want to highlight Tibet 's issues during the visit .
Tibetan organizations and Tibet support groups said that , in addition to the planned protests in New Delhi , they also plan demonstrations in other parts of the country .
Indian authorities have reportedly asked Tibetans to leave the city center and told students to stay inside their dormitories during Mr. Hu 's visit .
They said they will take appropriate action against those who disobey the order .
In the northern Indian town of Dharamsala , Tibet 's parliament-in-exile called on the Chinese leader to meet with Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , to discuss the future of Tibet .
Occupied by the UK in 1841 , Hong Kong was formally ceded by China the following year ; various adjacent lands were added later in the 19th century .
Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and the UK on 19 December 1984 , Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ( SAR ) of the People 's Republic of China on 1 July 1997 .
In this agreement , China promised that , under its " one country , two systems " formula , China 's socialist economic system would not be imposed on Hong Kong and that Hong Kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years .
Yemeni officials say at least three people have been killed in attacks on security and intelligence buildings in the country 's southern Abyan province .
Local authorities said Wednesday gunmen on motorcycles using mortars and rocket-propelled grenades opened fire on people inside the two buildings in the provincal capital , Zinjibar .
After the assault and subsequent clashes with police and guards , the attackers fled .
Officials said al-Qaida is believed to be responsible for the attacks , and security had arrested seven suspected insurgents .
The militant group was blamed for an attack last month on security headquarters in southern Yemen that left 11 people dead .
Lebanon 's prime minister , Fuad Siniora , says military forces are working to enforce the government 's authority in southern Lebanon .
Mr. Siniora warned Thursday that troops will confiscate weapons they find in the area , which is home to Hezbollah militant bases .
Thousands of Lebanese troops have deployed in southern parts of the country , after the end of fighting last month between Hezbollah and Israel .
Hezbollah leaders say fighters continue to operate along the border with Israel , to defend what they call land belonging to the group .
A United Nations resolution to end the fighting has called for Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon to be disarmed .
Syria and Iran are believed to be key suppliers of weapons and money to Hezbollah .
Tens of thousands of Turks protested Sunday against the country 's Islamist-rooted government .
The demonstrators chanted " Turkey is secular and will remain secular " as they gathered in Samsun .
The Black Sea port is where modern Turkey 's secular founder , Mustafa Kemal Ataturk , launched the country 's war of independence .
Pro-secular demonstrations have also been held in Ankara , Istanbul and Izmir , where more than one million people protested against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's government last week .
Mr. Erdogan has expressed support for the country 's secular laws .
But his opponents accuse him of having a secret Islamist agenda .
Turkey 's main opposition party , the pro-secular Republican People 's Party and the left-wing Democratic Left Party formed an alliance last week to contest July parliamentary elections .
Iraqi police say a suicide truck bomber has killed at least 15 people and wounded more than 20 at a police station in northern Iraq .
Police say the attack took place Sunday in the mainly Sunni town of Adwar , 20 kilometers south of Tikrit .
They say the bomber rammed a truck loaded with hay through the gate of a police station and triggered the blast outside the building .
The explosion severely damaged the building , killing and wounding policemen , prisoners and civilians .
Officials say the death toll could rise as emergency workers search through the rubble .
Elsewhere , police say gunmen killed eight border guard recruits today as they were riding a minibus near the town of Rabiyaa in northwestern Iraq , near the Syrian frontier .
In another development , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed today in a gun battle with insurgents in Diyala province , northeast of Baghdad .
The U.S. military says three American soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb blast in northern Iraq .
The military says one soldier was also wounded in the explosion that hit their combat patrol in the town of Balad , north of Baghdad , late Wednesday .
In another development , Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa flew to Baghdad Thursday , - on his first visit to Iraq since the 2003 U.S. - led invasion .
Mr. Moussa is to hold talks with senior Iraqi leaders and also meet the country 's most influential Shi'ite cleric , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
The 34-member Arab League has been criticized for not strongly condemning the insurgency in Iraq and also for not taking a more active role in supporting the post-Saddam Iraqi government .
Lebanese officials say Syria 's military and intelligence withdrawal from Lebanon will be complete ahead of schedule , within the next two days .
There were conflicting reports of the exact timing .
A Lebanese military official said Saturday the pullout would be complete by Sunday , while a security official said it would be in the next 48 hours .
Last week , Syria said the last of its 14,000 troops would be out of Lebanon by Tuesday .
Saturday , a large number of Syrian troops left positions in Lebanon 's eastern Bekaa Valley .
As Syria prepares to end its 29-year presence in Lebanon , thousands of Maronite Christians marched in the mountains north of Beirut calling for the release of imprisoned anti-Syrian warlord Samir Geagea .
Jailed in 1994 , Geagea is serving multiple life sentences for crimes committed during Lebanon 's civil war .
An Israeli human rights group says Israeli authorities have allowed Jewish settlers to seize more than 400 hectares of land from Palestinian farmers by extending security barriers .
The Rights group , B'Tselem issued a report Thursday saying settlers , with government backing , installed security fences around 12 West Bank settlements , cutting off access to private land owned by Palestinians .
Israeli officials say the security zones are meant to protect Israelis from attacks .
The report notes that settlers have also used violence and systematic harassment to force Palestinian farmers from the land .
In a separate development in Gaza , Israeli military officials say two bombs exploded today near an Israeli army vehicle on patrol near the border barrier .
Nobody was injured in the blasts .
Israeli military police have arrested a defense force officer who allegedly stole computers from the Gaza-bound aid flotilla intercepted by Israeli commandos in May .
Officials say the officer is suspected of stealing as many as six laptop computers , some of which were sold to other soldiers .
News reports say some of the soldiers who allegedly purchased the computers are also under investigation .
In May , nine pro-Palestinian activists on a Turkish ship were killed after Israeli commandos boarded vessels attempting to deliver aid directly to Gaza , in violation of an Israeli blockade .
The incident increased tensions between Israel and Turkey .
Israel had commandeered several Turkish ships that were part of the flotilla .
However , earlier this month it allowed the ships ' operators to sail the vessels back to Turkey .
Lebanese authorities say four people are dead after an apparent assassination attempt against a top Lebanese police official near the southern city of Sidon .
Officials say Colonel Samir Shehade was wounded , but in stable condition after a bomb exploded near his car Tuesday .
The blast killed four of his aides and bodyguards , and wounded four others .
There was no immediate word on a possible motive for the attack against Shehade , a senior officer in Lebanon 's internal security force .
He was involved in the investigation of last year 's killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Many in Lebanon blame Syria for the Hariri murder , which the United Nations also is investigating separately .
Syria denies any involvement .
Thousands of anti-globalization activists marched in the streets of Hong Kong Sunday as the city prepares to host the World Trade Organization 's ( WTO ) annual summit .
The peaceful two-hour march by nearly 4,000 protesters was said to have a carnival-like atmosphere , with dozens of groups holding gaudy props while wearing colorful costumes .
The march was the first of three large demonstrations planned for the summit .
Another will be held Tuesday when the ministerial conference kicks off .
The final protest rally is scheduled for the closing day next Sunday .
Authorities in Hong Kong have been worried about a repeat of the violence , which marred previous trade meetings in Cancun and Seattle .
Thousands of police have been put on alert for the Hong Kong summit .
The U.S. military says coalition soldiers in Iraq have killed 24 insurgents who attacked a coalition convoy outside Baghdad .
Authorities say six troops and seven insurgents were wounded in the fighting , which occurred late Sunday about 30 kilometers southeast of the capital .
Elsewhere , authorities say a car bomb exploded Monday in the center of Samarra , wounding at least 10 people .
The Associated Press says a truck loaded with explosives apparently detonated prematurely near a hospital .
Separately , one U.S. soldier was killed in an insurgent attack in Kirkuk , while another soldier and a Marine were killed during security operations in Al Anbar province , west of Baghdad .
Grieving families in northern Iraq have canceled plans for a mass funeral for dozens of suicide bomb victims because of concerns it would be attacked .
Religious leaders say families and politicians agreed to hold private funerals across the city of Mosul , Friday .
The decision came as a mortar round landed near a Shi'ite mosque where a suicide bomber blew himself up Thursday , killing 47 people and wounding more than 80 others .
On the political front , Iraq 's main Shi'ite alliance , which swept the January 30 elections , was finalizing a deal with Kurdish leaders to form a coalition ahead of the new parliament 's first session next Wednesday .
Meanwhile , a Polish newspaper quoted Defense Minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski as saying Poland will withdraw several hundred of its troops from Iraq in July .
The White House announced Saturday that U.S. President Barack Obama will travel to Russia , Italy and Ghana in July .
Mr. Obama will visit Moscow from July 6 to 8 for meetings with Russian President Dmitri Medvedev .
The two leaders are expected to talk about ways to reduce the stockpile of nuclear weapons , cooperate on nonproliferation and resolve differences over a U.S. planned missile defense system in central Europe .
The president will travel to L'Aquila , Italy to attend a G-8 summit of industrialized nations from July 8 to 10 .
President Obama and world leaders are expected to discuss the economy , energy , and climate change .
Mr. Obama will then travel to the sub-Saharan African country of Ghana , where he will visit the city of Accra on July 10 and 11 .
Mr. Obama will meet with Ghanaian President John Atta-Mills to discuss a range of bilateral and regional issues .
The international aid group Doctors Without Borders ( Medecins Sans Frontieres ) says it is outraged by the arrest of its regional head in Sudan over a report accusing Sudanese soldiers and militiamen of rape .
Monday , officials arrested Paul Foreman and accused him of publishing false information for failing to turn over medical records supporting the report .
That report says some 400 rape victims identified their attackers as soldiers or members of the pro-government militia .
But Mr. Foreman says he will not violate doctor-patient confidentiality by handing over the documents .
He has been released on bail , and authorities told him not to leave the country .
Sudan 's Attorney General Mohamed Farid says Mr. Foreman should have submitted the report to the government before publishing it .
If he is found guilty , Mr. Foreman could serve up to three years in prison .
Delegates to the United Nations Climate Change conference in Montreal have agreed to launch more talks on long term cuts in greenhouse gasses after marathon negotiations extended into an unscheduled 13th day .
The officials reached agreement early Saturday after all-night meetings .
The talks had stalled when the U.S. delegation did not approve the text of a Canadian proposal for future talks on the issue .
President Bush withdrew from the current Kyoto Protocol in 2001 , saying its limits on greenhouse gasses would harm the U.S. economy because developing countries were not held to the same standards .
Former president Bill Clinton says the Bush administration is " flat wrong . "
Also Saturday , Kyoto Protocol members agreed to hold more talks among themselves on emission cuts beyond the current phase of the treaty which ends in 2012 .
Pope Benedict has marked the start of the new year with a call for protection of the family , which he said is vital for world peace .
In the homily at his first Mass of 2008 , the pontiff called the family the primary means for assuring peace .
And he warned that any negation of family rights threatens the foundations of peace .
The pope has frequently turned to the topic of the traditional family based on marriage between a man and a woman , responding to calls by activists for recognition of same-sex marriage .
The Roman Catholic Church celebrates January first as its World Day of Peace .
Three-time U.S. college basketball champion coach Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University has been officially named as the U.S. men 's national team coach .
His primary task is to bring the Olympic title back to the United States .
The announcement by USA Basketball Wednesday came two weeks after Krzyzewski 's appointment was widely reported .
The move puts a college coach in charge of the U.S. team for the first times since National Basketball Players first began playing in the 1992 Olympics .
The United States ' " Dream Team " won gold at the 1992 Barcelona Games .
Teams with NBA players repeated the feat in 1996 and 2000 .
But the U.S. team finished sixth in the 2002 World Championship and took the bronze medal in Athens last year .
Cuba has officially ended circulation of the U.S. dollar , a move Cuban leader Fidel Castro says is in response to tightening U.S. sanctions .
The ban on the dollar went into effect Monday , preventing hotels , stores and restaurants from using the currency .
Those business will now only accept a " convertible peso " which has a face value equal to the dollar , but no value internationally .
Mr. Castro announced the dollar ban two weeks ago .
The Cuban government has also encouraged Cubans living abroad to send money to their relatives in other currency , such as British pounds or Euros .
Cuba legalized the dollar in 1993 in the face of an economic crisis sparked by the collapse of the Soviet Union .
The U.S. has reopened its embassy and other offices in South Africa , three days after closing them because of a security threat .
U.S. Embassy spokeswoman Sharon Hudson-Dean said the embassy in Pretoria and other facilities were open for business Friday .
U.S. officials have not given any details about the threat that prompted them to close the embassy , three consulates , and U.S. aid offices on Tuesday .
However , a South African newspaper said the United States took action following a threat from an al-Qaida splinter group .
In a Thursday report , The Pretoria News said the splinter group telephoned the embassy Monday and apparently gave detailed information about possible attacks against several U.S. government buildings in South Africa .
The newspaper says its information is from " well-placed security sources . "
It cites an intelligence source as saying the call to the embassy is believed to have come from South Africa .
The United Nations says it is investigating Eritrean claims that Ethiopian troops entered its territory and attacked a village .
Eritrea 's Information Ministry said Wednesday Ethiopian troops crossed into a remote Eritrean village in late November , set fire to 10 houses and kidnapped five people .
The commander of the U.N. peacekeeping force for Eritrea and Ethiopia said Thursday an investigation is underway .
He said the 1,000 kilometer border between the two countries continues " peaceful and stable , " despite allegations of an Ethiopian incursion .
Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a two and a half year border war between 1998 and 2000 that left more than 70,000 people dead .
Both countries agreed to a ceasefire and international mediation , including an independent boundary commission whose decision would be final and binding .
Pakistan says the kidnapped employee of its Baghdad embassy appears to have been abducted for ransom .
A Foreign Ministry spokesman Jalil Abbas told reporters in Islamabad Monday that Malik Mohammed Javed is safe and well and is in contact with senior officials at the embassy .
Mr. Javed has not been seen since Saturday , when he left home for evening prayers at a Baghdad Mosque .
Scores of foreigners have been kidnapped in Iraq over the past year , some by groups with political demands , others by criminals seeking ransom .
There has been no word about three Romanian journalists and an Iraqi assistant kidnapped nearly two weeks ago on the outskirts of Baghdad .
The fate of an Iraqi general abducted last week is also not known .
A leading Hong Kong newspaper is reporting that Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa has informed his cabinet he is stepping down .
Tuesday 's South China Morning Post quotes an unidentified cabinet minister who says Mr. Tung is quitting because he is tired and his health is not good .
No timetable was given .
Hong Kong media reported last week that Mr. Tung had submitted his resignation to Beijing .
He has made no official comment on those reports .
Mr. Tung has two years remaining on his five-year term .
Pro-democracy advocates fear Beijing will give his successor a fresh five-year term , further blocking hopes for greater autonomy .
But a senior Chinese official says any successor would have to complete Mr. Tung 's term in office .
Rescue workers in central China are searching for 59 police trainees who were swept away in a landslide triggered by Typhoon Longwang 's torrential rain .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says the police recruits were in two training school barracks in Fuzhou , Fujian Province late Sunday night when the buildings were swept away .
Currently three people are confirmed dead from the storm .
The typhoon also killed one person in Taiwan before it hit China 's mainland .
In a separate development , Xinhua says authorities have evacuated about 13,000 people from their homes in central China along , the Hanjiang River , a tributary of the Yangtze River .
It says heavy rains in Hubei province have cut off several roads , and more rain is expected in the next two days .
Jordan 's King Abdullah says his country is seeking its own nuclear energy program .
In an interview with Israel 's Haaretz newspaper Friday , King Abdullah said Jordan wants nuclear power for peaceful purposes and has been discussing plans with the West .
In response to a question about Iran 's nuclear program , King Abdullah said that Jordan had previously advocated a nuclear-free Middle East , but he said " the rules have changed " throughout the region .
He also noted that Egypt and the Gulf Cooperation Council have begun looking into nuclear programs .
King Abdullah said he believes that any country with a nuclear program should conform to international regulations .
The United States and its Western allies say Iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran denies the charges .
African Union mediators who are brokering peace talks among warring parties in Sudan 's Darfur region have extended by 48 hours a deadline on negotiations .
The initial deadline expired at midnight Sunday , but the lead mediator for the AU , Salim Ahmed Salim said early Monday the deadline was extended following a request from the United States .
The government of Sudan had said it was prepared to sign the peace agreement which was the result of two years of talks .
But rebel groups said on Sunday they would not sign and insisted on changes .
The rebels said they wanted better terms for integrating their forces into the Sudanese army , and for disarming pro-government Janjaweed militias .
Three years of violence in Darfur between government-backed forces and Darfur rebels have left tens of thousands of people dead and more than two million displaced .
An African Union official says two of the mission 's peacekeepers have been killed in an ambush in Sudan 's volatile Darfur region .
The acting head of the AU mission in Sudan , Jean-Baptiste Natama , said the two peacekeeping soldiers , as well as two civilian contractors , were killed Saturday during a surprise attack in South Darfur .
More than 6,000 African Union peacekeepers are deployed to the region .
Fighting between Sudanese rebels and government-backed Arab militia in Darfur has killed tens of thousands of people and driven more than two million others from their homes since 2003 .
Venezuela 's oil minister has said OPEC countries have reached consensus to cut back crude oil production by one million barrels a day , beginning December first .
OPEC says it is currently producing 28 million barrels per day .
Rafael Ramirez said Friday in a television interview that OPEC oil ministers agree on the cut and will hold a meeting to discuss the mechanics of the cut .
An Opec official said a meeting is expected on October 20 in Qatar .
Ramirez said Venezuela would try to keep the price of oil above $ 55 a barrel .
He said Venezuela has already implemented a 50,000 barrel per day output reduction .
France says it will conduct a fourth search for additional wreckage of an Air France jet that crashed into the Atlantic last year with 228 people on board .
The French Transport Ministry said Thursday that the latest search should begin in February .
Officials were quoted as saying the " best equipment currently available " will be used .
Air France Flight 447 crashed off Brazil 's coast in June 2009 as it headed to Paris from Rio de Janeiro .
The initial search found wreckage and bodies , but the flight data recorders , which could provide clues as to what happened to the aircraft , have not been found .
Search teams looking for the missing recorders called off operations in May after failing to locate them .
The plane went down in water some 7,000 meters-deep above a mountainous ocean floor .
A preliminary report concluded that a faulty speed-sensing system may have led to the crash .
Israel 's elder statesman , Nobel laureate Shimon Peres , has been ousted as the Labor party leader by a trade unionist who says he will quit the ruling coalition government and force early elections .
Trade union chief Amir Peretz won a vote among 100,000 rank-and-file Labor Party members Thursday .
A short while after his upset win , Mr. Peretz said he would press Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to set a date for national elections .
Mr. Peretz linked Labor 's pullout from the ruling coalition to party opposition to free market reforms and spending cuts .
Mr. Peres brought his party into the ruling coalition last year as a junior partner to help back Prime Minister Sharon 's evacuation of Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip .
Most analysts had expected Mr. Peres , a former prime minister , to retain his party 's leadership post .
A U.S. rights organization says a group of jailed Burmese activists are staging a hunger strike to demand medical treatment for an injured colleague .
The Washington-based U.S. Campaign for Burma says 41 detained pro-democracy activists have been on a hunger strike since August 30 .
It says they are demanding treatment for another jailed activist whose leg was broken during his arrest by Burmese police .
The rights group also is calling on Burma 's military government to give Red Cross workers access to the prisoners .
Authorities have barred the International Committee of the Red Cross from Burmese prisons since December 2005 .
Burma 's opposition says police have arrested more than 100 activists in a crackdown on recent protests around the country .
The government puts the figure at around 50 .
Burmese activists have held a series of rare public demonstrations in recent weeks to protest the government 's decision to sharply increase the price of fuel .
Egypt 's state-run media have predicted an overwhelming victory for incumbent President Hosni Mubarak , based on preliminary election results .
Newspapers Friday proclaimed a fifth term for Mr. Mubarak , reporting he won more than 80 percent of the votes in the country 's 26 governorates .
Voter turnout was low , by some estimates only around 30 percent of the 32 million registered voters , but state media downplayed its significance with editorials praising Mr. Mubarak .
The 77-year-old leader faced nine challengers , including Ayman Nour of the liberal Tomorrow ( Ghad ) Party , who appears to have come in a very distant second , ahead of Noaman Gomaa of the Wafd Party .
Independent monitors and Western news agencies reported multiple problems with Wednesday 's election , including vote-buying and intimidation .
But the election commission rejected a petition from Mr. Nour demanding a revote .
Final results are expected by Saturday .
Brazilian police say they have broken up a smuggling network , involving foreign diplomats from at least five embassies .
Police say the foreign envoys used their diplomatic privileges help smuggle items into the country tax free .
The luxury products such as whiskey and perfumes were sold to the upper class in the capital of Brasilia .
Federal police said Friday that embassies from three African and two Middle Eastern countries were allegedly part of the ring .
The United States says it will send a team of diplomats to the Horn of Africa region to try to resolve the border dispute between Eritrea and Ethiopia .
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , John Bolton , says the delegation will focus on " how to begin implementation of the border demarcation process . "
He said the delegation will be led by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African affairs Jendayi Frazer .
Mr. Bolton spoke to reporters after the U.N. Security Council discussed Eritrea and Ethiopia in a closed-door meeting Monday .
Eritrea says the U.N. has done too little to make Ethiopia accept a borderline drawn by an independent panel .
U.N. officials have said the situation on the two countries ' border remains " tense and potentially volatile . "
Eritrea and Ethiopia fought a border war between 1998 and 2000 that killed 70,000 people .
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles , and called upon the Foxes to help them .
They replied , " We would willingly have helped you , if we had not known who you were , and with whom you were fighting . "
Count the cost before you commit yourselves .
U.S. President Barack Obama is scheduled to meet Tuesday with Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero .
The two leaders are to have a working lunch at the White House and then make statements to reporters .
Later Tuesday , President Obama , first lady Michelle Obama , Vice President Joe Biden and his wife , Jill Biden , are to attend a concert on the White House South Lawn celebrating Hispanic musical heritage .
The concert will include a number of well-known Hispanic performers including Gloria Estefan , Marc Anthony , Jose Feliciano , George Lopez and Thalia .
The president is to make brief remarks at the beginning of the concert .
The event is to be televised nationally at a later date .
Campaigning has begun for Afghanistan 's first parliamentary polls since the fall of the Taleban in 2001 , amid warnings by a human rights group that female candidates need more protection .
On Wednesday , authorities launched a month of official campaigning featuring free radio or television slots for each of the nearly 6,000 candidates running for the national assembly or for local councils .
The campaign will end on September 15 , three days ahead of the September 18 vote .
The polls have already been pushed back twice from last year , and the United Nations has said it could be the most challenging elections the international community has ever organized .
Human Rights Watch says the fairness of the vote will be jeopardized if Afghan and international authorities do not do more to shield the nearly 600 female candidates .
U.S. auto giant General Motors is reported to be in preliminary talks with Chrysler about a possible merger .
The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal cite people familiar with the discussions .
They say the talks began last month between GM and Cerberus Capital Management , a private equity firm that owns Chrysler .
The possible merger could reduce the so-called " Big Three " automakers of Detroit to the Big Two .
Ford is also based in Detroit .
The New York Times reports Cerberus is also in talks with other automakers , including Nissan and Renault .
The global financial crisis has increased fears the Unites States ' biggest automakers could be forced into bankruptcy .
Car sales have fallen sharply and analysts say potential car buyers can not get loans .
Congolese President Joseph Kabila has suspended mining in a volatile region of the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
President Kabila ordered the suspension during a visit to the mining hub town of Walikale , reportedly to try to clean up the sector and weed out rebel groups fueling conflict there .
More than 240 people were raped near Walikale during attacks by Rwandan Hutu and Congolese rebels between July 30 and August 3 .
It was not immediately clear if the president 's ban applied to areas outside of Walikale .
Eastern Congo 's provinces are rich in minerals like coltan and cassiterite , which are used by Western companies in the manufacturing of mobile phones and computers .
However , control over those minerals has fueled persistent conflict between armed militias competing for dominance .
The conflict is also fueled by ethnic hatred leftover from the 1994 slaughter of Tutsis in neighboring Rwanda as well as Congo 's civil wars .
SAVE petrol by pushing your car to your destination .
Invariably passers-by will think you 've broken down and help .
Ukrainian officials say they are considering imposition of a quarantine throughout the country 's Crimean Peninsula after a British laboratory confirmed that the bird flu in the area is a variety deadly to humans .
Agriculture Ministry spokesman , Oleksander Horobets , says the British laboratory confirmed that the virus is the deadly H5N1 strain that has killed more than 70 people in East Asia since 2003 .
He said authorities in the next few days will consider further measures .
President Viktor Yushchenko declared a state of emergency after the virus was first detected in northeastern Crimea earlier this month and then spread to at least 15 villages .
Authorities have destroyed more than 60,000 domestic birds despite strong opposition from villagers who depend on them for food .
The poultry are thought to have contracted the virus from migrating wild birds that travel by the millions over the area .
Turkey 's parliament has set the dates for a presidential election after an earlier attempt in April to select a new president was blocked .
The parliament Friday set the first round of voting for August 20 , followed by a second round on August 24 and a third round on August 28 .
The presidency is decided by a vote of parliament members only , not by a nationwide vote of Turkish citizens .
In April , a secularist campaign blocked the Islamist-rooted governing party of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan from electing a member of his party as president .
Turkey 's newly-elected parliament on Thursday voted overwhelmingly to choose ruling Justice and Development Party member Koksal Toptan , a secular politician , as the new speaker .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev has sent parliament a draft law on extending the term of the country 's president from four to six years .
The Russian leader first made the proposal in his state-of-the-nation address last week .
The measure also calls for extending the term of the lower house of parliament , the State Duma , from four to five years .
Some Russian news reports raised the possibility the changes would require new presidential elections in Russia .
This , they said , would allow former Russian President Vladimir Putin , who now is Russia 's prime minister , to quickly seek to return to the presidency .
But Russian officials have downplayed the possibility , noting that the changes would not apply to Mr. Medvedev 's current term .
Nigerian police say armed men wearing camouflage uniforms have kidnapped a German oil industry worker in the country 's Niger Delta region .
A police spokesman says the kidnappers took the worker from his car near the southern city of Port Harcourt Thursday .
The German man works for the company Bilfinger Berger .
Police have not named any suspects in the case .
Kidnappings are common in the delta region .
Local militants want residents to receive more of the region 's oil revenues .
On Monday , Nigerian militants released eight soldiers and 16 oil workers they had held hostage at an oil pumping station for a week .
Nigeria normally produces about 2.5 million barrels of oil per day .
But recent attacks on oil facilities and the kidnappings have slashed production by at least 20 percent since February .
The Iraqi election commission says the main Shi'ite coalition has maintained a strong showing in Sunday 's landmark elections .
Partial results show the United Iraqi Alliance , which has the support of influential Shi'ite cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , with 2.2 million of the 3.3 million votes counted so far .
The party of interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi is in second place with less than 20 percent support .
The results so far are from mainly Shi'ite regions , and a complete tabulation is not expected for another week .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Thursday when a troop convoy was hit by a roadside bomb in the northern city of Mosul .
The prominent tribe of Jordanian-born terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has published a declaration disowning him .
In a half-page notice printed Sunday in Jordanian newspapers , 57 members of the al-Khalayleh family , including Zarqawi 's brother and cousin , said they are severing all links to the fugitive " until doomsday . "
The family also pledged strong allegiance to Jordan 's King Abdullah , who Zarqawi threatened last week to kill .
The family statement was published two days after the al-Qaida in Iraq leader defended the November 9 bombings at three hotels in Amman that killed 59 people .
He also warned of more attacks .
The family statement said anyone who carries out such attacks in Jordan is not Jordanian and has nothing to do with Jordan .
A BULL finding a lion 's cub asleep gored him to death with his horns .
The Lioness came up , and bitterly lamented the death of her whelp .
A wild-boar Hunter , seeing her distress , stood at a distance and said to her , " Think how many men there are who have reason to lament the loss of their children , whose deaths have been caused by you . "
Environment ministers from haze-hit Southeast Asian nations are gathering in Indonesia to discuss ways to combat annual blazes that create a choking cloud of smoke over the region .
Ministers from Indonesia , Singapore , Malaysia , Thailand and Brunei are meeting Friday in the Indonesian town of Pekanbara on Sumatra island , one of the worst areas hit by haze each year .
Jakarta said Thursday that it would sign a regional treaty to boost cooperation in tackling the problem .
President Susilo Bambang Yudhyono apologized earlier this week for the smoke that has blanketed the region .
Malaysia , Singapore and other regional neighbors have been calling on Indonesia to take serious action against the fires , lit each year by plantation companies and farmers to clear land .
The haze hit its worst levels from 1997 to 1998 , costing the Southeast Asian region $ 9 billion in losses from declines in tourism and business activities .
India and Burma have signed several new agreements to build stronger economic and defense ties , during a visit to India by Burma 's reclusive military ruler .
Senior General Than Shwe , received a formal welcome Tuesday in New Delhi , where he met Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and other Indian officials .
The two countries signed five agreements following the talks , including a plan to jointly combat arms smuggling across their shared border .
India also agreed to help Burma in a host of projects such as building roads , developing waterways , and a port .
Rights groups have criticized India for engaging with Burma , citing concerns about the Burmese government 's continued repression of its political opponents .
Pro-democracy activists have held demonstrations in New Delhi to protest against Than Shwe 's five-day visit .
Aside from their shared border , Burma is of important strategic interest to India because of its large natural gas reserves .
The U.S. defense secretary is in Macedonia , where he will participate in a meeting of the region 's defense ministers .
Robert Gates arrived Tuesday in the southwestern town of Ohrid for the annual meeting of the Southeast Europe Defense Ministers .
He will attend an informal meeting of NATO defense officials in the Hungarian capital , Budapest , on Thursday and Friday .
Macedonia is a candidate for NATO membership , but alliance member Greece has blocked Macedonia 's bid because Macedonia shares its name with a Greek province .
Gates arrived today from Kosovo , the Serbian province that declared independence in February .
In the capital , Pristina , Gates reaffirmed U.S. support for Kosovo 's territorial integrity and vowed to maintain a U.S. military presence there until at least 2009 .
Secretary Gates is the most senior U.S. official to visit Kosovo since it declared independence .
President Bush and Macedonian Prime Minister Vlado Buckovski have met at the White House to discuss reforms in Macedonia and the situation in Iraq .
Following their talks , Mr. Bush praised Macedonia for showing the world it is possible for people of different backgrounds to live together in peace .
He said his discussions with Mr. Buckovski also covered Macedonia 's aspirations to join NATO .
Mr. Bush also thanked Mr. Buckovski for sending Macedonian troops to Iraq and Afghanistan .
The Macedonian leader said his forces will stay in those countries for as long as they are needed .
Mr. Buckovski is also meeting at the Pentagon with U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld .
Friday , he will be in New York for a United Nations Development Program donors ' conference on Macedonia .
He winds up his U.S. trip with a stop in Detroit for a meeting with Macedonian-American community leaders .
Mexican authorities are investigating an explosion at an oil pipeline in Puebla State that killed at least 28 people , including at least 12 children .
Officials say the blast may have been set off by thieves trying to steal crude oil , but have not ruled out a possible mechanical malfunction .
Puebla state officials described the scene in the town of San Martin Texmelucan as " rivers of fire in the streets . "
At least 30 homes were destroyed and dozens more damaged , forcing people to flee for their lives .
More than 50 people were injured .
The state-owned Pemex oil company said the pipeline was carrying crude oil under high pressure .
Fuel theft is rampant in the area , with hundreds of millions of dollars lost each year .
Freed American hostage Jill Carroll , 28 , arrived at Ramstein Air Base in Germany Saturday as she headed home to the United States after 82 days in captivity in Iraq .
The journalist was released by her abductors Thursday .
Carroll 's father says the video in which she praised her Iraqi captors was made under duress .
Jim Carroll says his daughter felt compelled to make statements strongly critical of President Bush in order to be released by her captors .
Following her release Thursday , her kidnappers released a video , taped before she was set free , in which she praised the Iraqi insurgency and criticized the U.S. war effort .
Police in Mexico say they have found nine bodies - seven men and two women - buried near the drug-smuggling hub of Ciudad Juarez , just across the U.S. border .
Investigators say they have not ruled out finding more bodies at the site .
Thousands of soldiers and federal police are posted around Juarez in an effort to quell violence involving warring drug gangs .
The cartels are fighting for control of trafficking routes into the United States .
The turf wars have turned Juarez into Mexico 's most violent city .
It is located just across the border from the U.S. city of El~Paso , Texas .
Israel is pushing ahead with its campaign against Palestinian rocket attacks , with a series of air strikes Monday that killed at least five Palestinians .
In the deadliest attack , an air strike on a car killed at least four Islamic Jihad militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
On Sunday , Palestinian officials said an Israeli air strike on the Gaza City home of a Hamas lawmaker killed eight people .
The attack outraged Hamas , which promised revenge .
Israel launched the attack hours after its security Cabinet said it would intensify operations in Gaza to stop Palestinian militants from firing rockets into Israel .
Cabinet ministers threatened to target Hamas leaders .
Nearly 40 Palestinians have been killed since Israel began its campaign last week .
European Union Foreign Policy chief Javier Solana has left on a visit to the Middle East to urge an end to the violence .
Russian and Chinese forces are wrapping up the second phase of joint military exercises as they prepare for live-fire drills to begin Tuesday in eastern China 's Shandong Peninsula .
Nearly 10,000 troops from land , sea , and air forces of both nations are participating in the first-ever large-scale war games between the two countries .
The China Daily newspaper says the third phase of the eight-day exercise , dubbed " Peace Mission 2005 , " will involve firing with live ammunition by warplanes and military vessels as part of an amphibious landing on the Shandong peninsula .
The joint maneuvers began in the Russian port city of Vladivostok Thursday .
The United States is not attending as an observer , but says it is closely monitoring the drills .
China is denying a United Nations investigator 's report of widespread torture in China , and accuses the envoy of jumping to conclusions .
Speaking Tuesday in Beijing , a Foreign Ministry spokesman , Qin Gang , said the U.N. rapporteur on torture , Manfred Nowak , presented a report that was not factual because he only visited three Chinese cities during his two-week visit .
The spokesman also denied Mr. Nowak 's claim that Chinese officials obstructed his fact-finding mission , particularly when visiting detention centers .
Mr. Nowak told VOA that officials monitored his interviews with lawyers and family members of prisoners .
However , he said he was able to determine that torture is widespread , including beatings , the use of electric shock batons , and dunking in filthy water .
Mr. Nowak 's visit to China included stops in Tibet and the Muslim-majority region of Xinjiang .
The trip resulted from 10 years of negotiations .
Police in Pakistani-controlled Kashmir say five girls have been killed by a cluster bomb .
Authorities say the young girls were playing with the toy-shaped explosive when it went off Friday in Kel village , near the line of control dividing Pakistani and Indian Kashmir .
Officials say such cluster bombs were used in large numbers by Indian forces along the line of control before a ceasefire three years ago .
They say the Pakistani army has defused many bombs , grenades and toy-shaped bomblets , but that some are still lying in the farm fields .
Pakistan and India have a history of bitter relations and fought three wars over Kashmir .
Sporadic clashes and shelling along the border ceased following the ceasefire .
Pakistan and India also have started a peace process to resolve the Kashmir conflict .
Iran says Russia is selling Tehran advanced anti-aircraft missiles , but did not say when they will arrive .
The S-300 air defense system has a radar that can track many targets at the same time , and missiles that can hit targets anywhere from just above the treetops to 27 kilometers in the sky .
The S-300 compliments a shorter-range Russian system sold to Iran earlier .
Iran 's announcement that it is upgrading its air defenses was made during a time of international tensions over Iranian nuclear programs that western nations fear could be used to make nuclear weapons .
The United States has never ruled out military action against the suspected nuclear weapons projects , but a recently published U.S. intelligence report said Iran stopped its nuclear weapons program several years ago .
In many rural areas of North America , cowboy churches are attracting people that might shy away from traditional Christian churches .
These religious gatherings are generally held during the week and feature a very casual style .
For producer Yi Suli , Elaine Lu has more on one cowboy church in North Carolina .
Austrian alpine skier Benjamin Raich has padded his lead atop the season 's overall standings by winning a World Cup super-combined event in Wengen , Switzerland .
American Bode Miller was second-fastest in the morning 's downhill run and appeared to have won after the afternoon slalom but was disqualified for straddling a gate just meters from the finish line .
Raich was only 13th after the downhill run , but he skied a fast slalom leg to win with a combined time ( of 2:38.46 ) that was 0.19 seconds faster than Kjetil Andre Aamodt of Norway ( 2:38.65 ) .
Italian Peter Fill posted his first career podium result in a World Cup event , placing third ( 2:38.78 ) .
The super-combi is a new version of the traditional combined race .
It adds the times from a shortened downhill run in the morning to a single slalom leg a few hours later .
Hundreds of Afghan students have held a protest over an American magazine report that copies of the Koran were desecrated at the U.S. jail in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The students marched through the eastern city of Jalalabad Tuesday chanting " Death to America " and burning an effigy of President Bush .
A recent edition of U.S. Newsweek magazine reports that in an effort to rattle imprisoned terrorism suspects , American interrogators placed Korans on toilets and in one case flushed one of the holy books down the toilet .
The government of neighboring Pakistan has called for an inquiry into the matter .
The United States is holding more than 500 people at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay , many of them al-Qaida and Taleban suspects captured following the September 11 , 2001 attacks on America .
The Palestinian parliament has approved a new cabinet dominated by technocrats and professional appointees .
The approval Thursday comes after Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia bowed to lawmakers ' demands to replace several officials closely associated with the late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
The new lineup includes Arafat-allies Nabil Shaath , who becomes deputy prime minister , and Nasser al-Qidwa , Mr. Arafat 's nephew , who replaces Mr. Shaath as foreign minister .
Saeb Erekat , who was an Arafat ally and former minister of negotiations , was left out .
The cabinet was approved after President Mahmoud Abbas pressured the dominant Fatah faction to accept a revised lineup .
Mr. Abbas made reform of the Palestinian Authority a key platform of his recent presidential campaign .
The Authority was plagued with corruption under Mr. Arafat , who died in November .
Parliament approved the new cabinet in a vote of 54 to 12 with four abstentions .
President Bush says the United States must change its habits and reduce its dependence on foreign oil .
President Bush says the country 's reliance on fossil fuels harms the environment and puts Americans at the mercy of nations that do not enjoy the same freedoms .
American consumers , for their part , appear to be changing their habits , but they are doing so for more practical reasons .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
More than 1,000 people gathered in Istanbul Saturday to protest attacks by separatist Kurdish rebels in southeast Turkey .
Demonstrators walked silently through the streets of the capital carrying Turkish flags and banners calling for an end to terror .
The marchers were responding to a call by the Turkish military for mass opposition to the attacks by the Kurdistan Workers Party , known as the PKK .
The Turkish government , along with the United States and the European Union , consider the Kurdish group a terrorist organization .
The PKK has been fighting for autonomy since 1984 and an estimated 30-thousand people have died in the violence .
London-based Amnesty International has called on Iranian authorities to release dozens of journalists it says are in jail after being arrested during protests since the disputed June 12 election .
The human rights group says the journalists are at risk of torture in detention .
Amnesty International says most of the journalists being jailed worked for the newspaper Kalameh Sabz , which was established by the runner-up in the poll , Mir Hossein Mousavi .
A spokesman for the group said the organization assumes Iran 's government is trying to hide evidence of abuse , and further silence any critical voice .
In addition to the imprisonment of journalists , Amnesty condemns efforts by authorities to interrupt the Internet inside Iran , ban coverage of the unrest in local publications and prevent foreign journalists from doing their work properly .
Gunmen in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , have killed the head of the U.N. Development Program for Somalia .
Osman Ali Ahmed was shot dead Sunday as he left a Mogadishu mosque .
Witnesses say another man also was wounded in the attack .
No one has claimed responsibility .
Attacks on aid workers and other officials are common in Somalia , where Islamist insurgents are fighting the Ethiopian-backed interim government .
On Saturday , a land mine killed a Mogadishu city official and at least three security guards .
Somalia has not had a fully functioning central government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and turned on each other .
Police in Afghanistan say an explosion in the capital , Kabul , has killed two policemen and wounded their commander .
Officials say the commander , Ali Shah Paktiawal , appears to have been the target of Wednesday attack .
He is the head of criminal investigations in the Afghan capital .
Paktiawal survived the blast with injuries , but two of his officers died .
Police say the bomb exploded when Paktiawal and his team were investigating the deaths of three of their colleagues .
The three were killed in an overnight attack on a police post in the western outskirts of Kabul .
A Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility for both attacks .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) says Indonesia has one of the fastest growing HIV epidemics in Asia .
The U.N. body published a report Saturday saying drug users and sex workers account for most of the spread of the virus that causes AIDS .
The report says HIV has become a particular concern in the remote eastern province of Papua , where infection rates are more than 20 times the national average .
Health authorities say about two percent of Papua 's population is infected with HIV .
U.N. officials say Indonesia 's underdeveloped health care system and lack of resources make it difficult for the country to deal with HIV and AIDS .
About 7,000 AIDS cases have been reported in Indonesia , although the real figure is believed to be much higher .
Pakistan has successfully tested a surface-to-surface missile with a range of 2,500 kilometers .
In a military statement Saturday , the South Asian country said the test was the second for the Hatf Six missile , which was earlier tested in March of 2005 .
Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz witnessed the test , which was carried out at an undisclosed location .
Aziz congratulated the scientists , engineers and the technical staff of Pakistan 's Strategic Organization .
The military statement said Hatf Six is Pakistan 's longest range ballistic missile system and can carry nuclear and conventional warheads with great accuracy .
Regional rivals Pakistan and India have routinely conducted missile tests since they both conducted underground nuclear tests in 1998 .
Major U.S. professional sports organizations are adding a financial boost to relief efforts following Hurricane Katrina .
The National Football League says it is donating $ 1 million to the American Red Cross to assist hurricane victims in Louisiana , Mississippi and Alabama .
The NFL also says it is working on other ways to assist .
The National Basketball Association and Women 's NBA are combining their aid efforts .
Players are making donations and helping directly with the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency .
The American Red Cross is raising money at WNBA playoff games in Los Angeles and Indiana .
Major League Baseball teams are also gathering money and donating items to help .
Clothes and non-perishable food items were collected Wednesday at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles .
Two of the fastest men in the world , Jamaicans Asafa Powell and Usain Bolt , have finished in first and second place respectively in the 100-meter race at the DN Galan meet in Stockholm .
Powell won the highly anticipated rematch Tuesday in 9.88 seconds .
Bolt was slow out of the starting blocks , but nearly caught up and finished just one-100th of one second back .
Bolt set the world record of 9.72 seconds on May 31 , breaking Powell 's mark by two-100ths of one second .
But at the Beijing Olympics next month , both Jamaicans will also battle American sprinter Tyson Gay , who ran the fastest time ever recorded for the 100 meter distance .
Gay clocked a wind-assisted time of 9.68 seconds on June 30 .
Election officials in Afghanistan say they have dismissed some 50 employees for suspected fraud in last month 's legislative elections .
Chief of operations for the joint U.N.-Afghan election commission , Richard Atwood , says more than 650 ballot boxes - or about three percent of votes - have been taken out of the counting process because of suspicions they were stuffed .
But Mr. Atwood ruled out a recount , saying the fraud was not widespread and does not affect the integrity of the election .
Accusations of irregularities in the count of the September 18 vote sparked demonstrations across the country .
Meanwhile , human rights advocates warned that many of the winning candidates have links to armed groups , and that at least two former members of the Taleban have been elected to parliament .
Pakistani authorities say a bomb blast at a Shi'ite mosque in the North West Frontier Province has killed four people and wounded at least three others .
Police say the bomb went off Monday as worshipers were leaving the mosque in Dera Ismail Khan after evening prayers .
The bomb destroyed the mosque 's front wall and damaged its dome .
Police cordoned off the area as people searched the rubble for survivors .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Dera Ismail Khan has a history of sectarian violence .
Last month , gunmen killed at least six Shi'ite Muslims in two suspected sectarian attacks in the city .
Pakistan has a history of violence between the majority Sunni and minority Shi'ite Muslims .
The communities generally coexist peacefully , but militants from both sides have attacked each other since the 1980s , killing thousands of people .
Indonesian officials say the World Health Organization has confirmed the country 's eighth human death from bird flu .
The officials said Saturday , tests conducted at a laboratory in Hong Kong show that a 25-year-old woman who died earlier this week had the H5N1 strain of the virus .
Meanwhile , officials in Ukraine have reported the country 's first outbreak of bird flu in poultry .
The Agriculture Ministry says the virus was detected in Ukraine 's Crimea peninsula , but it is not known yet if the virus is the strain that is dangerous to humans .
Bird flu has killed nearly 70 people in Asia since 2003 , and has also spread among poultry flocks in many European countries .
Health experts fear the virus could mutate into a form that could be easily transmitted between humans and kill millions of people .
American gymnast Paul Hamm has announced that he will not be able to compete at the Beijing Olympics and defend his men 's all-around title .
Hamm officially notified USA Gymnastics and the U.S. Olympic Committee on Monday that he is withdrawing from the team .
He said his right hand , which he broke at the national championships in May , had not healed enough for him to compete .
Hamm also hurt his rotator cuff in an accelerated recovery effort designed to get him ready for the Beijing Games .
The 25-year-old Hamm decided it would be better for the team to take a fully healthy gymnast to Beijing in his place .
The loss is a blow to the American squad 's medal hopes .
Hamm had been expected to participate in all six events in team qualifying and probably all six in the team finals as well .
One of three alternates will take Hamm 's spot in Beijing .
A suicide bomber has killed at least 30 people and wounded nearly 20 others on a bus in Baghdad .
The bus was crowded with people , traveling to the mostly Shi'ite city , Nasiriyah , southeast of Baghdad .
The bus was about to depart the al-Nahda station in the east Baghdad town of Rusafa , early Thursday , when the attack occurred .
Witnesses told police that they believe a suicide bomber , wearing an explosive belt , climbed onto the bus minutes before the explosion .
The bus station is a major hub for vehicles traveling to and from the mostly Shi'ite cities in the south of the country .
In August , three car bombs exploded at the station , killing more than 40 people .
Suicide attacks have been on the rise ahead of crucial national elections in Iraq next Thursday .
The al-Qaida in Iraq terrorist group has claimed responsibility for several of the large attacks .
The United States has called North Korea 's missile programs a global threat after the communist nation reportedly fired two missiles near its border with China .
Media reports differed on whether the missiles were launched as a test or by mistake .
However , a White House spokesman , Scott McClellan , said the launches were similar to previous tests carried out by North Korea .
Pyongyang has offered no public information about the missile launches .
Meanwhile , the chief U.S. negotiator at stalled nuclear talks , Christopher Hill , says North Korea is blocking progress in the negotiations .
Earlier Wednesday , a senior North Korean diplomat , Li Gun , repeated Pyongyang 's refusal to return to talks over its nuclear program until the United States lifts financial sanctions on North Korean assets .
Uganda 's Health Ministry says the country has confirmed its first case of H1N1 swine flu .
Ugandan health official James Kakooza said Thursday that a 40-year-old British man tested positive for the virus after arriving in Entebbe on June 26 .
Kakooza said the man came from London through Nairobi , Kenya .
Uganda is the seventh sub-Saharan nation to report swine flu cases - along with Kenya , Cape Verde , Ethiopia , Ivory Coast , Mauritius , and South Africa .
The World Health Organization said that as of Wednesday , 332 people have died from the swine flu virus , and more than 77,000 people have been diagnosed worldwide .
In June , the WHO declared an influenza pandemic for the first time in more than 40 years .
The H1N1 strain of swine flu is a highly contagious new virus that quickly spread around the world this year .
The price of oil hit another new record Friday - $ 147 a barrel .
U.S. airlines are lightening their loads by cutting back on luxuries that weigh down airplanes .
Meanwhile , the U.S. Congress is considering proposed laws that some say would help stabilize the price of oil .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti reports .
Taiwan says it is asking the United States to clarify recent comments by a top State Department official who indirectly likened the island to a " landmine " in U.S.-China relations .
State Department officials were not immediately available to comment on the request .
In a televised interview this month with U.S. Public Broadcasting , Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage was asked where the landmines are in China 's relationship with the United States .
He replied that Taiwan is " probably the biggest . "
Mr. Armitage also repeated the U.S. official policy that recognizes Taiwan as part of China 's territory , and he mentioned the Taiwan Relations Act that requires the United States to keep military forces in the Pacific to deter an attack .
The interview was broadcast on December 10 , but Mr. Armitage 's remarks were not published on the State Department 's website until Monday .
A Los Angeles judge has ruled that Phil Spector 's ex-girlfriend may testify that he twice pointed guns at her head .
The April 10 ruling means that jurors at the music producer 's murder trial will hear that Spector has twice before engaged in what prosecutors allege are strikingly similar gun incidents .
Phil Spector 's lawyers unsuccessfully attempted to bar the testimony of Devra Robitaille , his ex-girlfriend and employee .
They claimed her evidence , citing incidents from the 1970s and '80s , was irrelevent and would delay the start of the trial .
Opening statments in the case are expected to begin in late April or early May .
Phil Spector , a pop music producer famed for his " wall of sound " technique , is accused of the fatal 2003 shooting of actress Lana Clarkson .
He has pleaded innocent , saying she committed suicide .
The first Sinhalese arrived in Sri Lanka late in the 6th century B.C. , probably from northern India .
Buddhism was introduced in about the mid-third century B.C. , and a great civilization developed at the cities of Anuradhapura ( kingdom from circa 200 B.C. to circa A.D. 1000 ) and Polonnaruwa ( from about 1070 to 1200 ) .
In the 14th century , a south Indian dynasty established a Tamil kingdom in northern Sri Lanka .
The coastal areas of the island were controlled by the Portuguese in the 16th century and by the Dutch in the 17th century .
The island was ceded to the British in 1796 , became a crown colony in 1802 , and was formally united under British rule by 1815 .
As Ceylon , it became independent in 1948 ; its name was changed to Sri Lanka in 1972 .
Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil separatists erupted into war in 1983 .
After two decades of fighting , the government and Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) formalized a cease-fire in February 2002 with Norway brokering peace negotiations .
Violence between the LTTE and government forces intensified in 2006 , but the government regained control of the Eastern Province in 2007 .
By May 2009 , the government announced that its military had defeated the remnants of the LTTE .
Since the end of the conflict , the government has resettled tens of thousands of internally displaced persons and has undertaken a number of massive infrastructure projects to reconstruct its economy .
Iraqi police say a suicide car bomber attacked a security checkpoint in central Baghdad Monday , killing at least two people and wounding five others , mostly policemen .
The attack took place near a gate into the Iraqi capital 's heavily fortified Green Zone , where most U.S. and Iraqi government offices are located .
Separately , the U.S. military said two American airmen were killed and another wounded in a roadside bomb blast on Sunday near an airbase ( Taji ) north of Baghdad .
In another development , the trial of ousted leader Saddam Hussein is scheduled to resume Tuesday , but it is not yet clear who will preside in court .
News reports say senior officials are urging chief judge Rizgar Muhammad Amin to stay on .
The jurist resigned earlier this month after criticism of his handling of the trial .
The tribunal has not yet accepted his resignation .
A Ugandan official says a massive landslide in eastern Uganda has killed at least 106 people .
Minister of State for Disasters Mussa Ecweru told VOA 's Swahili service that 300 people remain missing .
The landslide engulfed three villages in the Bududa region near Mount Elgon late on Monday , following more than a week of heavy rain in the area .
Police and armed forces are taking part in efforts to find survivors .
Officials say the mudslide destroyed homes , markets , schools , and a health clinic .
Saudi Arabia has an oil-based economy with strong government controls over major economic activities .
It possesses about 20 % of the world 's proven petroleum reserves , ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum , and plays a leading role in OPEC .
The petroleum sector accounts for roughly 80 % of budget revenues , 45 % of GDP , and 90 % of export earnings .
Saudi Arabia is encouraging the growth of the private sector in order to diversify its economy and to employ more Saudi nationals .
Diversification efforts are focusing on power generation , telecommunications , natural gas exploration , and petrochemical sectors .
Almost 6 million foreign workers play an important role in the Saudi economy , particularly in the oil and service sectors , while Riyadh is struggling to reduce unemployment among its own nationals .
Saudi officials are particularly focused on employing its large youth population , which generally lacks the education and technical skills the private sector needs .
Riyadh has substantially boosted spending on job training and education , most recently with the opening of the King Abdallah University of Science and Technology - Saudi Arabia 's first co-educational university .
As part of its effort to attract foreign investment , Saudi Arabia acceded to the WTO in December 2005 after many years of negotiations .
The government has begun establishing six " economic cities " in different regions of the country to promote foreign investment and plans to spend $ 373 billion between 2010 and 2014 on social development and infrastructure projects to advance Saudi Arabia 's economic development .
Another tropical storm has formed in the Atlantic Ocean , one day before the busiest and costliest Atlantic hurricane season on record officially comes to a close .
U.S. forecasters say Tropical Storm Epsilon took shape Tuesday and was slowly moving westward over the central Atlantic Ocean .
At last report , the storm was nearly 1,300 kilometers east of Bermuda .
Officials say Epsilon is not expected to directly affect Bermuda , but they warn that dangerous surf conditions are possible in the next day or two .
This year , an unprecedented 26 tropical storms have raged in the Atlantic since the season began on June first .
Half of those strengthened into hurricanes .
The busy season meant forecasters exhausted their list of names , forcing them to use the Greek alphabet to name storms for the first time .
They also warn the next hurricane season could be just as bad .
A spokesman for Iran 's Supreme National Security Council is denying a report that says the council head and top nuclear negotiator Hassan Rowhani has resigned .
Spokesman Ali Agha-Mohammadi says the resignation announcement published Wednesday by the state news agency IRNA was " completely " false .
The IRNA report quoted an informed source as saying Mr. Rowhani , who heads ongoing nuclear talks with the European Union , has sent his resignation letter to outgoing President Mohammed Khatami .
There has been growing media speculation in recent days that Mr. Rowhani would quit to allow President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to fill the position .
A group of Croatian activists , opposed to President Bush 's visit , have signed a huge postcard inviting the U.S. president not to return to their country .
The activists Saturday presented the postcard , which included the phrase " Do n't Come Back , " to the Croatian Foreign Ministry , after police prevented them from presenting it to Mr. Bush directly .
They hope the ministry will send it on to the United States .
Those signing urged Mr. Bush , among other things , to halt activities that hurt the environment , ratify the Kyoto Protocol , withdraw U.S. troops from the Middle East and close down the terrorist detention center at the U.S. Naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami is on an official visit to Venezuela , where he is expected to sign a number of bilateral agreements with President Hugo Chavez .
Oil and commercial accords are aimed at strengthening ties between the two nations , both of which have been the focus of criticism from the United States .
The Bush administration has been a vocal opponent of Iran 's nuclear program , and of Venezuelan President Chavez 's treatment of the opposition and the media in his country .
The United States is Venezuela 's largest oil customer .
President Khatami will also attend the inauguration of a tractor assembly plant .
Thousands of ethnic Albanians have marched through Kosovo 's capital , Pristina , to protest the killing of a police officer last week .
The demonstrators carried photographs of the officer , Triumf Riza , who was shot to death in a parking lot .
Reaction to the shooting has highlighted citizens ' frustration with the high rate of crime in the area .
The United Nations administrator of Kosovo , Joachim Ruecker , released a statement expressing full support for the demonstrators .
He called the murder of the policeman " a heinous crime and a terrible tragedy . "
He said the outpouring of emotion after Riza 's death is a sign that the people of Kosovo do not accept crime and violence .
Kosovo has been under U.N. administration since 1999 .
VOA 's Creole Service has set up a hotline to help Haitians everywhere reach their loved ones , after Tuesday 's devastating earthquake destroyed much of the capital , Port-au-Prince .
People can call the Creole service at 202-205-9942 to leave messages for their family members that will be broadcast on the service 's radio programs .
Messages can be left in either Creole or English .
Creole service chief Ronald Cesar says VOA Creole also has extended its broadcast hours and is reaching out on Facebook and Twitter .
VOA continues to broadcast on shortwave .
But because most of its satellite affiliates in Haiti are off the air , the Creole service also is using a Florida-based AM frequency to reach listeners in the country .
Thousands of Ugandans took to the streets Monday to celebrate the release on bail of opposition leader Kizza Besigye .
Dr. Besigye walked out of a Kampala courthouse Monday after a Ugandan High Court judge , John Bosco Katutsi , ruled his detention by the military was illegal .
Police fired tear gas to disperse the celebrating supporters .
The military had held Dr. Besigye since November , when he returned from self-imposed exile to run in next month 's elections against President Yoweri Museveni .
A military tribunal has charged Dr. Besigye with terrorism and illegal firearms possession .
But the judge said the military 's authority to hold him expired last month , when the High Court ordered the tribunal suspended .
Dr. Besigye still faces civilian charges of rape and treason .
He has denied all the charges , which supporters say are politically motivated .
Palestinian health officials say a Hamas militant is dead and that 16 people have been wounded in an explosion Saturday at a home in Gaza City .
Officials say two of the wounded are in critical condition .
Witnesses say the home belonged to the victim , a Hamas activist named Nader Abu Shaban .
Officials say the cause of the explosion is under investigation .
Several Palestinians have been killed after explosives being stored , or made , in their homes accidentally detonated .
The French government said it has arrested the suspected military leader of the Basque terrorist group ETA near the Spanish border .
From Paris , Lisa Bryant reports for VOA the arrest marks a further blow for hardline members of ETA .
The French government said it had arrested suspected ETA miliatry leader Garikoitz Aspiazu Rubina along with a female colleague early Monday in the Pyrenees region near the border with Spain .
Interior Minister Michele Alliot-Marie outlined some details of the arrests to French radio .
Alliot-Marie said Aspiazu Rubina - known by his alias Txeroki - was suspected of killing two young police officers a year ago .
Spain has also been hunting for him on suspicion of being behind a number of other attacks there .
They include a 2006 bombing of a Madrid airport that killed two people .
Both France and Spain have hailed the arrest as a blow to ETA , which is blamed for more than 800 deaths in Spain during its 40-year campaign for an independent Basque state .
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said ETA was weaker and Spanish democracy was stronger because of the arrest .
Analysts said it further undermines ETA 's hard-line leadership , which has already suffered from the arrests of a number of its members in recent years as part of stepped up French and Spanish efforts against the group .
Some experts believe the arrests may give voice to moderates in the Basque group who back dialogue rather than arms to achieve their aims .
ETA has been blamed for killing five people after renouncing a unilateral ceasefire in 2007 .
Brother of Iraqi policeman cries over coffin during funeral in Baghdad , Friday
A series of insurgent attacks across Iraq killed at least 30 people Saturday , including a number of police recruits .
A suicide bomber blew himself up outside a police recruiting station in central Baghdad , killing at least 16 people .
Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility in an Internet posting , although the statement 's authenticity could not be confirmed .
Two separate suicide bomb attacks in a city south of Baghdad - one at a police checkpoint and a second attack targeting civilians - left another 10 people dead .
A bomb hidden in a vegetable cart exploded south of Baghdad as the funeral procession for a slain top Shi'ite cleric passed close by , killing two people .
No one in the funeral party was injured .
Gunmen and roadside bombs also targeted police officials and Iraqi soldiers in separate attacks elsewhere in Iraq .
Official Iranian news reports say parliament has rejected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 's third nominee for the post of oil minister .
The reports say Mohsen Tasalouti - a trained architect - failed Wednesday to win a vote of confidence , after lawmakers argued he was not qualified to run the all-important ministry .
Oil exports generate 80 percent of Iran 's public revenues .
The president 's first nominee for the post , Ali Saeedlou was rejected in August by lawmakers who said he was not qualified .
A second nominee , General Sadeq Mahsouli - a Revolutionary Guards commander with no oil experience - withdrew his candidacy earlier this month when it became clear parliament would reject him as well .
The ministry is currently being run by a deputy oil minister under former President Mohammed Khatami .
The United Nations anti-drug chief has called for a strong military action by NATO forces to destroy the opium industry in southern Afghanistan .
Head of the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime Antonio Maria Costa Tuesday urged NATO countries to give the alliance the mandate to stop what he called the vicious circle of drugs funding terrorists and terrorists protecting drug traffickers .
In an unrelated development , a U.S.-led coalition soldier died and another one was injured when their armored vehicle rolled over during a combat mission in eastern Kunar province late Monday .
Separately , unknown gunmen kidnapped a Colombian aid worker and two Afghan employees of a French-funded aid agency in central Wardak province .
Local officials say the three disappeared Sunday and that police are looking for them .
It is not clear why they were in the remote area .
Belarus has seen limited structural reform since 1995 , when President LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of " market socialism . "
In keeping with this policy , LUKASHENKO reimposed administrative controls over prices and currency exchange rates and expanded the state 's right to intervene in the management of private enterprises .
Since 2005 , the government has re-nationalized a number of private companies .
In addition , businesses have been subjected to pressure by central and local governments , including arbitrary changes in regulations , numerous rigorous inspections , retroactive application of new business regulations , and arrests of " disruptive " businessmen and factory owners .
Continued state control over economic operations hampers market entry for businesses , both domestic and foreign .
Government statistics indicate GDP growth was strong , surpassing 10 % in 2008 , despite the roadblocks of a tough , centrally directed economy with a high rate of inflation and a low rate of unemployment .
However , the global crisis pushed the country into recession in 2009 , and GDP grew only 0.2 % for the year .
Slumping foreign demand hit the industrial sector hard .
Minsk has depended on a standby-agreement with the IMF to assist with balance of payments shortfalls .
In line with IMF conditions , in 2009 , Belarus devalued the ruble more than 40 % and tightened some fiscal and monetary policies .
On 1 January 2010 , Russia , Kazakhstan and Belarus launched a customs union , with unified trade regulations and customs codes still under negotiation .
In late January , Russia and Belarus amended their 2007 oil supply agreement .
The new terms raised prices for above quota purchases , increasing Belarus ' current account deficit .
GDP grew 4.8 % in 2010 , in part , on the strength of renewed export growth .
In December 2010 , Belarus , Russia and Kazakhstan signed an agreement to form a Common Economic Space and Russia removed all Belarusian oil duties .
The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the world economy and particularly to those nations its waters directly touch .
It provides low-cost sea transportation between East and West , extensive fishing grounds , offshore oil and gas fields , minerals , and sand and gravel for the construction industry .
In 1996 , over 60 % of the world 's fish catch came from the Pacific Ocean .
Exploitation of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role in the energy supplies of the US , Australia , NZ , China , and Peru .
The high cost of recovering offshore oil and gas , combined with the wide swings in world prices for oil since 1985 , has led to fluctuations in new drillings .
India celebrated its 58th Republic Day Friday , with military parades in the nation 's capital and various cities across the country .
Security forces were on high alert for suspected insurgent attacks , but there were no reports of violence during the festivities .
Russian President Vladimir Putin joined Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President Abdul Kalam as the guest of honor for this year 's celebrations in New Delhi .
On Thursday , New Delhi police said they arrested a suspected militant carrying more than two kilograms of explosives .
India 's Republic Day marks the founding of the Indian republic in 1950 , three years after its independence from Britain .
Defending champion Serena Williams of the United States has advanced to the third round of the Australian Open tennis tournament in Melbourne , taking less than an hour to beat Camille Pin of France 6-3 , 6-1 .
Top seeded American Lindsay Davenport won her second round match today , beating Karolina Sprem of Croatia 7-6 , 6-3 .
Fourth seeded Maria Sharapova of Russia dispatched of Ashley Harkleroad of the United States in straight sets , 6-1 , 7-5 .
Other women advancing Wednesday included sixth seeded Nadia Petrova of Russia and eighth-seeded Justine Henin-Hardenne of Belgium .
On the men 's side , second seeded Andy Roddick of the United States advanced to the third round , after beating South African Wesley Moodie , 7-5 , 6-3 , 6-2 .
Also winning their second round matches were seventh seeded Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia , eighth seed Gaston Gaudio of Argentina and number 20 James Blake of the United States .
The incoming administration of U.S. President-elect Barack Obama is assembling a team of advisors and staffers , most of whom worked for the last Democratic administration under former President Bill Clinton .
Mr. Obama has put together a team of experts to conduct a review of the State , Defense and Treasury Departments .
The six team leaders picked for the task all worked under Mr. Clinton .
Democratic officials say Vice President-elect Joe Biden has picked as his chief of staff Ron Klain , who was chief of staff for former Vice President Al Gore .
Biden and his wife Jill are scheduled to meet outgoing Vice President Dick Cheney Thursday for a tour of the official vice presidential residence in Washington .
Thursday 's meeting on the vice presidential transition follows talks Monday between President George Bush and President-elect Obama .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say American soldiers and Iraqi police have detained more than 50 people during raids in search of insurgents around the city of Baquba , north of Baghdad .
A statement Sunday says a number of weapons were also found during Saturday 's raids , around the towns of Buhriz and Hib Hib .
Elsewhere Saturday , at least 10 Iraqis and a U.S. Marine were killed in several insurgent attacks across the country .
In another development , Dinesh Dharmendra Rajaratnam , a Sri Lankan truck driver set free by Iraqi militants last week after he was kidnapped in October , returned home Sunday , where he was reunited with his family .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has accused the United States of supporting an alleged separatist movement in Venezuela 's oil-rich Zulia state .
Mr. Chavez said on Venezuelan television this week that the United States backs an effort in Zulia state by a group called Rumbo Propio , or " our own path , " to hold a referendum on breaking away from the government in Caracas .
The head of the ruling MVR party , William Lara , has accused the U.S. Ambassador to Venezuela , William Brownfield , of meeting with the group .
But the U.S. embassy in Caracas told the Daily Journal newspaper there is no record of such a meeting .
Officials announced this week that Rumbo Propio is under investigation for possible treason .
President Chavez has repeatedly accused the United States of plotting to overthrow his government .
A Russian general says placing elements of a U.S. anti-missile system in Poland and the Czech Republic would be a " clear threat " to Moscow .
Lieutenant General Vladimir Popovkin , the chief of Russia 's Space Forces , disputed the U.S. contention that the system 's sole aim was to defend Europe against intercontinental missiles fired by hostile states outside the region .
Poland and the Czech Republic have agreed to start detailed discussions with Washington on hosting anti-missile defenses .
Russian officials have repeatedly opposed the project , calling it a veiled attempt to change the strategic balance between Russia and the West .
Both Poland and the Czech Republic are former communist Warsaw Pact countries that are now NATO members .
U.N. troops have exchanged gunfire with gang members in Haiti 's largest slum in the first such confrontation in weeks .
U.N. officials late Thursday said the trouble happened Wednesday , in the Cite Soleil slum after gunmen shot at the peacekeepers .
Officials could not confirm reports of casualties but said no peacekeepers were injured .
Cite Soleil was a focal point of violence following the February 2004 ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Also this week , Haiti 's Parliament approved a new Cabinet in a vote that formally confirms President Rene Preval 's choice for prime minister , Jacques Edouard Alexis .
President Preval was sworn in last month after winning elections in February .
The Polynesian Maori reached New Zealand in about A.D. 800 .
In 1840 , their chieftains entered into a compact with Britain , the Treaty of Waitangi , in which they ceded sovereignty to Queen Victoria while retaining territorial rights .
In that same year , the British began the first organized colonial settlement .
A series of land wars between 1843 and 1872 ended with the defeat of the native peoples .
The British colony of New Zealand became an independent dominion in 1907 and supported the UK militarily in both world wars .
New Zealand 's full participation in a number of defense alliances lapsed by the 1980s .
In recent years , the government has sought to address longstanding Maori grievances .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney is heading Sunday to the Middle East for visits to Oman , Saudia Arabia , Israel , the West Bank , and Turkey .
U.S officials say Mr. Cheney 's talks will cover Iraq , the situations in Lebanon and Syria , Iran 's rising influnce in the region , violence in Gaza , and soaring gasoline prices in the United States .
He is expected to encourage Saudi Arabia to step up diplomatic ties with Iraq .
Cheney also is expected to encourage Israel and the Palestinians to move forward with a peace deal .
In Turkey , the U.S. vice president is expected to discuss Turkey 's recent incursion against Iraq-based rebels of the Kurdistan Workers Party .
Prosecutors in Indonesia have asked a panel of judges for the death penalty against an Australian accused of being a mastermind of a drug smuggling ring on the resort island of Bali .
The defendant , Andrew Chan , is one of nine people arrested last April for allegedly trying to smuggle about eight kilograms of heroin out of Bali .
Earlier this week , prosecutors sought the death penalty for the group 's alleged ringleader Myuran Sukumaran .
They have requested life sentences for six other male defendants , and a 20 year prison term for the only female defendant .
The trial is the latest of several high-profile drug cases in Indonesia involving Australians .
Indonesia 's Supreme Court recently reinstated a 20-year prison sentence for an Australian Schapelle Corby , convicted of marijuana smuggling .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has strongly condemned the killing of an African Union interpreter in the Kalma refugee camp in Sudan 's Darfur region .
On Monday , the top U.N. humanitarian official Jan Egeland fled the camp when a large group of demonstrators asking for protection from peacekeepers turned violent .
The U.N. group fled , but a translator was later killed by the angry mob .
In a statement issued Tuesday , Mr. Annan also criticized other recent attacks on humanitarian groups working in Darfur and Chad , including a U.N. staff member who was shot and critically wounded last week in eastern Chad .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is scheduled to appear at the U.N. Security Council today to call for speeding up the deployment of peacekeepers to the Darfur region .
Sudan is under pressure to allow the United Nations to take over peacekeeping efforts from the African Union .
Turkish media say the prosecutor 's office has started a legal process to shut the country 's main pro-Kurdish political party , alleging it has ties to Kurdish rebels .
The reports say Turkey 's chief prosecutor , Abdurrahman Yalcinkaya , filed a case at the Constitutional Court to ban the Democratic Society Party - the DTP .
The move follows the DTP 's call for autonomy for the mainly Kurdish region of southeastern Turkey as a way to resolve more than two decades of separatist violence spearheaded by the Kurdistan Workers Party - the PKK .
In the past , Turkey has banned pro-Kurdish parties for links to PKK rebels .
Turkey has been pressing Iraq to crack down on PKK guerrillas who shelter in northern Iraq .
Turkey has also threatened cross-border military operations against the PKK .
Six Afghan police officers and two U.S. soldiers have been killed in separate roadside bombings in southern Afghanistan .
Afghan officials say the police officers were killed and four others wounded Monday when a bomb ripped through their vehicle in the Khakrez district of Kandahar province .
The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack .
Two American soldiers were killed in separate bomb attacks in the south Monday .
NATO did not give details .
Militants have stepped up attacks as U.S.-led NATO and Afghan forces work to clear Kandahar and surrounding areas of Taliban insurgents .
The latest violence comes as the Afghan government prepares to host a major international conference on Afghanistan in Kabul Tuesday .
Interpol police in Afghanistan says four Taleban prisoners who escaped from one of Afghanistan 's prisons earlier this year have been recaptured in Bulgaria and Uzbekistan .
The Interpol chief said Monday that the four men were captured last month .
Two were captured in Bulgaria and two in Uzbekistan , and they will be sent back to Afghanistan as soon as identification procedures have been completed .
The four were among seven Taleban inmates who disguised themselves as visitors to escape the high security Pol-e-Charkhi prison on the outskirts of Kabul .
The other three remain at large .
At the time of the escape , the prisoners did not wear special uniforms .
So the seven militants duped the guards by marking their hands with a fake ink stamp similar to one used to identify visitors to the jail .
A Thai soldier has been shot and killed by suspected insurgents in strife-torn southern Thailand .
Police say the soldier was gunned down Thursday in Yala province .
No arrests have been made .
Meanwhile , the head of Yala 's teachers union says government schools in the province will remain closed indefinitely due to recent attacks on teachers .
The schools have been shut since last month .
Many schools in two other southern provinces , Narathiwat and Pattani , are also closed .
Teachers have been a frequent target in a year-long Muslim separatist insurgency in Thailand 's three southern provinces that has left more than 500 people dead .
At least 100 demonstrators have rallied near Egypt 's security police headquarters to demand the resignation of the country 's interior minister and the prosecution of security officers whom they accuse of torture .
Participants in Sunday 's demonstration in Cairo included Egyptian human rights activists .
International and Egyptian human rights groups have criticized Egyptian prisons , police stations and detention centers for what they say is widespread brutality and torture .
The U.S. State Department 's latest human rights report said Egypt has a poor human rights record .
Egypt agreed two years ago to create a national council on human rights to investigate allegations of rights abuses .
But the government has frequently denied abuse allegations .
Military officials say at least three soldiers and 12 militants have been killed in a clash in southwestern Pakistan .
Major General Salim Nawaz say the rebels ambushed a paramilitary convoy Sunday in the Dera Bugti district of Baluchistan province .
The general says troops retaliated , killing the militants and destroying their hideout near natural gas installations in the Sui area .
This is the second such clash in over a week .
At least 36 militants and troops were killed in the region last weekend .
Rebel tribesmen have been waging a long-running , low-key insurgency in Dera Bugti .
The militants accuse the central government of not sharing profits from the province 's vast natural gas reserves .
Dera Bugti is near Pakistan 's biggest natural gas field and was the base of late Baluch rebel leader Nawab Akbar Bugti who was killed in a military operation in 2006 .
A DRUNKEN Man was lying in the road with a bleeding nose , upon which he had fallen , when a Pig passed that way .
" You wallow fairly well , " said the Pig , " but , my fine fellow , you have much to learn about rooting . "
A U.S. government report says the nation 's employers added 211,000 new jobs in March , dropping the unemployment rate slightly , to 4.7 percent .
The Labor Department report says job gains were spread throughout the non-farm economy - with the biggest gains in the areas of professional and business services , education and health services , and retail trade .
The 211,000 new jobs figure is well above what most economists had predicted ( 190,000 ) for March .
Analysts say this is an indication the economy is continuing to strengthen .
In remarks to reporters at the White House , President Bush cited those new figures as evidence that Congress should make his tax-relief plan permanent , rather than let the tax cuts expire .
Mr. Bush said the cuts are helping the economy move forward and create jobs .
The unemployment figure in February was 4.8 percent .
Campaigning has officially begun in Iraq for the country 's upcoming March 7 general election .
The first official campaign posters were plastered across Baghdad Friday .
Campaigning opened amid simmering tensions over the decision to ban a number of Sunni Muslim candidates because of alleged ties to late Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein 's Ba'ath party .
Iraq 's Shi'ite-led government has tried to purge former Ba'athists from top positions .
Analysts say the effort could re-ignite sectarian tensions between majority Shi'ite Muslims and Sunnis , who dominated Iraq under Saddam .
As campaigning began , the U.S. military said five people were killed during a joint raid with Iraqi forces in a village near the Iranian border .
It said those killed were suspected militants , but a provincial council member told the Associated Press they were civilians .
No further information was immediately available .
Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres says Iran should be expelled from the United Nations , after its president called for Israel to be " wiped off the map . "
Mr. Peres said the statement from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad goes against the principles of the United Nations .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was speaking Wednesday in Tehran to thousands of students gathered at a conference titled " The World Without Zionism . "
He warned that any country or leader that acknowledges Israel will face the wrath of the Islamic community .
In Washington , a White House spokesman , Scott McClellan , said the remarks underscore the Bush administration 's concerns about Iran 's nuclear intentions .
Speaking on a trip to Moscow , Israel 's foreign minister , Silvan Shalom , also expressed concern over Iran 's nuclear program .
Several Western nations fear that Iran is secretly trying to build nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
The Pakistani military says its troops have killed nearly 40 militants in two separate attacks Sunday in the northwest region of the country .
Officials say both offensives were in the Orakzai tribal area near the Afghan border .
A government official said several dozen militants attacked a village , but troops beat them back , killing many of the insurgents .
Hours later , militants and troops battled in another area of the region .
A government official says 12 rebels were killed in that fight .
Pakistan 's military figures can not be independently verified because access to the remote area is limited .
Pakistan 's military began an offensive in Orakzai in March to flush out Taliban insurgents believed to have fled an earlier military offensive in South Waziristan .
The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to let the Bush administration transfer accused " enemy combatant " Jose Padilla from U.S. military custody to face criminal charges in Florida .
The high court 's ruling Wednesday is a victory for the White House , which has held Mr. Padilla in a military detention facility since he was detained three years ago .
Mr. Padilla 's case has been the subject of numerous court rulings and his classification as an " enemy combatant " has been criticized by civil rights groups .
Last month the U.S. Justice Department reversed course and requested that the U.S.-born Mr. Padilla be tried in a civilian court .
An appeals court had ruled against that request , prompting the administration to take the case to the Supreme Court .
Mr. Padilla was arrested under suspicion of plotting with al-Qaida to set off a dirty bomb in the United States .
Several automakers say their U.S. sales rose sharply in March as the American economy recovers from the worst recession in decades .
Toyota gained nearly 41 percent from the same month a year ago .
Toyota used discounts and other incentives to boost sales after safety recalls tarnished the company 's image of reliability .
Sales for Ford jumped around 40 percent , Honda gained 22 percent , and General Motors improved 21 percent .
The Korea-based company Hyundai sold about 15 percent more cars .
Chrysler saw sales fall about eight percent .
Iraq 's Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari is in Turkey for talks on boosting relations and on ways to defuse the spike in sectarian violence in Iraq .
He met Tuesday in Ankara with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who warned the violence could spill outside Iraq 's borders .
Turkish officials fear a civil war in Iraq could lead to the creation of a Kurdish state in northern Iraq , leading Turkey 's Kurds to call for their own independence .
Mr. al-Jaafari 's talks were also expected to focus on Turkish help for Iraq to overcome water and energy shortages .
Iraq 's president , Jalal Talabani , criticized Mr. al-Jaafari for making the trip without informing him .
Officials in Chile say the rescue shaft they are drilling to free 33 trapped copper miners could reach the men by Saturday .
Chile 's mining minister , Laurence Golborne , told reporters Thursday that once the drill breaks through , it could take anywhere from three to 10 days to bring the men to safety .
Golborne said experts will have to analyze the soil and rock around the bore to determine if a metal reinforcement is needed to secure the shaft .
He said that process could take as long as three days .
The officials say a drill boring the rescue shaft is now within 100 meters of where the miners are located .
The men have been trapped more than 600 meters underground since early August .
Crews have been sending food , water , games , letters and other items to the men through small supply shafts .
Ban Ki-moon is in Japan for ceremonies commemorating the 65th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki .
Mr. Ban will be the first U.N. secretary general ever to attend the Peace Memorial Ceremony , held every year on August 6 at the exact hour an atom bomb was dropped on Hiroshima .
He will also be the world body 's first leader to visit Nagasaki , where a bomb fell three days later .
Mr. Ban met Tuesday with Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada in Tokyo , where he said his visit was meant to send a message about the need to work for global nuclear disarmament .
He was expected to meet Wednesday with Prime Minister Naoto Kan before traveling to Hiroshima .
The two bombs killed more than 200,000 people during the final stages of World War II .
Ukraine 's Central Election Commission has officially declared opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko the winner of the December 26 runoff presidential election .
The final results announced late Monday give Mr. Yushchenko 51 percent of the vote , while former pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych received 44 percent .
Election officials had been waiting until Mr. Yanukovych exhausted his appeals to the Supreme Court before officially declaring a winner .
The former prime minister filed a number of complaints to the high court alleging massive fraud .
They were all dismissed by the court .
Aides to Mr. Yanukovych say they will keep up their legal fight .
The supreme court ordered the December 26 runoff after throwing out a November vote it said was rigged in favor of Mr. Yanukovych .
Mr. Yushchenko may take the oath of office as early as this week .
Yasser Arafat 's nephew says the late Palestinian leader 's medical records give no clear cause for his death , but there were no trace of known poisons .
Nasser al-Kidwa spoke to reporters Monday after receiving a copy of the medical file from the French military hospital outside Paris , where Mr. Arafat died on November 11 .
He said toxicology tests were conducted on the late Palestinian leader , but no known poison was detected .
Mr. al-Kidwa , who is also the Palestinian representative to the United Nations , is expected to deliver the report to a Palestinian ministerial council which is looking into the cause of Mr. Arafat 's death .
The Palestinian leader was admitted to the French hospital in late October , but details of his illness have not been revealed .
Afghan officials say the police chief for the southern province of Kandahar has been killed in a clash with Afghan special forces trained by the U.S.
A senior member of the Kandahar provincial council says at least nine other police officers were killed in Monday 's clash outside the prosecutor 's office in Kandahar city .
It is not clear what sparked the shootout .
Afghan officials said Sunday Taliban insurgents killed at least seven police officers in separate attacks in western Afghanistan on Saturday .
Authorities say five officers and at least seven Taliban fighters were killed when militants attacked a police post in Farah province , Posht-e-Rud .
Elsewhere in Farah Saturday , Taliban fighters ambushed Afghan police in Bala Boluk , triggering a battle in which two police officers and at least five insurgents were killed .
Iraq 's election commission says it has rejected a small number of ballots from last month 's parliamentary vote , and plans to issue final results later this week .
Officials said ballots from 227 boxes were thrown out , adding the move should not affect the vote tally .
They said final results from the remaining 31,000 boxes will be announced as early as Friday .
Vote results have been delayed for weeks , after some Sunni Arab groups alleged widespread fraud .
Near Baghdad , a U.S. military helicopter crashed Monday killing the two soldiers on board .
In an unverified Internet claim , insurgents said they hit the aircraft in a rocket attack .
Meanwhile , Iraqi prosecutors said the trial of Saddam Hussein is to resume January 24th without the chief judge .
Judge Rizkar Mohammed Amin quit last week , complaining of government interference .
Turkish officials say Kurdish separatist militants have killed four soldiers in an overnight ambush in the eastern part of Turkey .
Authorities say militants of the Kurdistan Workers Party , armed with rocket launchers , attacked a local commando unit on patrol in Tunceli province in a pre-dawn raid on Sunday .
One Turkish soldier was wounded .
Fighting between the government and the Kurdish rebels subsided in 1999 after the rebels declared a cease-fire with Ankara .
But rebels called off the truce last June , saying they were not satisfied with the pace of promised Turkish reforms .
The Kurdistan Workers Party has been fighting for an ethnic homeland in southeastern Turkey for more than two decades .
More than 30,000 people have died since their revolt began in 1984 .
Sony Corp. completed its tender offer for Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , with Columbia shareholders tendering 99.3 % of all common shares outstanding by the Tuesday deadline .
Sony Columbia Acquisition Corp. , formed for the Columbia deal , will formally take ownership of the movie studio later this month , a spokesman said .
Sony is paying $ 27 a share , or $ 3.55 billion , cash and is assuming $ 1.4 billion of long-term debt .
Still unresolved is Sony 's effort to hire producers Jon Peters and Peter Guber to run the studio .
Sony 's planned acquisition of Guber / Peters Entertainment Co. for $ 200 million is scheduled to close Monday .
Guber / Peters has been locked in litigation with Warner Communications Inc. in an attempt to get out of an exclusive production contract with Warner .
Both sides are in talks to settle the dispute .
Pope John Paul II The Vatican has released the spiritual testament of Pope John Paul II .
In the document , the pontiff said he considered resigning in 2000 .
He also said he thought about being buried in his native Poland , but decided to leave that decision up to the College of Cardinals .
The pope requested that his personal notes be destroyed , and said he left no material property .
He began writing the document a quarter-century ago , and also reflected on his family and youth , and said it was a miracle he survived an assassination attempt in 1981 .
Meanwhile , thousands of people continue to wait hours to view the pope 's body at St. Peter 's Basilica .
The Vatican says some two million people have already passed by it .
President Bush and some 200 other world leaders are to attend the pope 's funeral Friday .
The pontiff will be interred in a crypt beneath the basilica .
Italian officials have imposed extraordinary security measures that include anti-aircraft missiles and instituting a no-fly zone over Rome .
Tension is running high in Lebanon after a bomb blast that injured at least six people in a Christian suburb of Beirut late Saturday .
Opposition leaders have blamed Syria for the blast - the third to hit a Christian neighborhood over the past eight days .
Lawmaker Walid Jumblatt says Lebanon 's Syrian-backed security forces are trying to destabilize the country as Damascus withdraws its forces .
Patriarch Nasrallah Sfeir , leader of Lebanon 's Maronite Christians , told worshippers Sunday that the country faces a choice between sovereignty and more turmoil .
Talking to reporters after the Easter Sunday mass , Lebanon 's President Emile Lahoud called on the country 's people to be united .
The U.S. State Department has condemned the bombings in Beirut , saying authorities must arrest those responsible .
It also repeated the the U.S. call for Syrian forces to leave Lebanon immediately .
The International Labor Organization is calling on the Burmese government to change legislation and a constitutional provision that allow forced labor .
During a session of the ILO 's committee on labor standards in Geneva Saturday , the group said efforts by the military government to end forced labor so far have been " totally inadequate " .
The committee called on the Burmese government to amend current legislation to ban forced labor .
It also called on the military-ruled junta to change a provision that will allow forced labor when the new constitution goes into effect in 2010 .
Human rights groups have long accused the Burmese government of using forced labor , including child labor , for state-run construction projects .
Sudan promised on Saturday to implement a resolution adopted by the 53-nation U.N. Human Rights Commission that unanimously condemns human-rights violations in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Sudan 's State Minister of Foreign Affairs , Najib el-Kheir , says his country will cooperate with a special investigator appointed by the Commission to monitor the human-rights situation in Darfur .
The Geneva-based Human Rights Commission called on Khartoum to disarm Arab militias that have been terrorizing villagers in Darfur , and to bring to justice all those involved in human-rights violations .
An estimated 180,000 people have been killed in Darfur since February 2003 .
A United Nations envoy has carried out his first inspection to verify that Syria is withdrawing its military and intelligence personnel from Lebanon and complying with Security Council Resolution 1559 .
Terje Roed-Larsen Tuesday visited a West Beirut apartment block that Syrian intelligence agents evacuated in recent weeks .
Mr. Roed-Larsen also voiced support for the Lebanese opposition 's demand that parliamentary elections go forward on time by May 31 .
On Sunday , Syria pledged to remove all of its troops and intelligence personnel from Lebanon by April 30 .
Today , witnesses reported more Syrian troops were dismantling their posts , and at least 20 trucks were seen transporting troops and equipment towards Syria .
The Washington-area 's planning commission has given preliminary approval to a memorial for victims of communism .
The National Planning Commission on Thursday approved the design , which includes a bronze statue of the " Goddess of Democracy " , similar to one erected by Chinese students in Beijings 's Tiananmen Square in 1989 .
Plans are to build the memorial in Northwest Washington near the Capitol .
The Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation have pushed for the project for more than a decade , arguing that the nation 's capital has memorials to many wars but not to the Cold War .
The chairman of the foundation says donors have given about 70 percent of the $ 600,000 needed to build the memorial .
He expects construction to begin in early 2006 .
The foundation has worked to honor the more than 100 million people who were killed or tortured under communist regimes .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko says withdrawing his country 's troops from Iraq is a top priority .
Mr. Yuschenko stressed the importance of coordinating the withdrawal with Ukraine 's coalition partners and withdrawing the troops without suffering any losses .
The Interfax news agency quotes him as saying Thursday the military has completed its mission , and now it is time for the diplomats and instructors to do their job .
Defense Minister Anatoly Hrytsenko said Thursday 700 of Ukraine 's more than 1,600 troops in Iraq could be withdrawn by April .
Ukraine 's foreign minister , Boris Tarasyuk , said last week that instructors , businessmen and diplomats will replace the peacekeepers .
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out of the waves , and suggested that they contract an alliance , saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends , since the one was the king of beasts on the earth , and the other was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean .
The Dolphin gladly consented to this request .
Not long afterwards the Lion had a combat with a wild bull , and called on the Dolphin to help him .
The Dolphin , though quite willing to give him assistance , was unable to do so , as he could not by any means reach the land .
The Lion abused him as a traitor .
The Dolphin replied , " Nay , my friend , blame not me , but Nature , which , while giving me the sovereignty of the sea , has quite denied me the power of living upon the land . "
Uruguay 's new president has restored diplomatic ties with Cuba .
The move came Tuesday , shortly after Tabare Vazquez was sworn into office in Montevideo .
Diplomatic relations between the two nations were broken in 2002 after Mr. Vazquez 's predecessor , Jorge Batlle , criticized Cuba over its human rights record .
Uruguay 's 65-year-old president is a cancer specialist and former mayor of Montevideo .
Cuban leader Fidel Castro canceled his plans to attend the inauguration for health reasons .
Among those attending the inauguration were the presidents of Bolivia , Chile , Paraguay and Peru as well as Spain 's Crown Prince Felipe .
The U.S. delegation was led by Labor Secretary Elaine Chao .
U.S. State Department spokesman Adam Ereli Tuesday offered congratuatlions to the New President and said the United States looks forward to working with him .
Afghan officials say the U.S. military has handed over six Afghan villagers who were detained during a raid early Tuesday at a compound where troops discovered bomb-making materials .
The raid near Bagram Air Base and the subsequent arrests sparked a violent protest by several hundred locals who demanded their release .
They said U.S. troops arrested the villagers without consulting local authorities .
U.S. soldiers fired warning shots outside the air base after some protesters threw stones at military vehicles and tried to push down the base 's outer gate .
No casualties were reported .
The U.S. military said those arrested were suspected of planning attacks against U.S.-led forces .
This latest incident at Bagram came amid an upsurge in violence ahead of September 's parliamentary elections in Afghanistan .
Doctors treating prominent U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy say his apparent seizure Tuesday was caused by fatigue .
Kennedy , who has brain cancer , collapsed during an inauguration luncheon in honor of President Barack Obama at the Capitol building .
He was taken to a nearby hospital , where he underwent tests .
Doctors say the 76-year-old liberal icon is awake , talking with friends , and feeling well .
He will remain in the hospital overnight for observation .
Mr. Obama told dignitaries at the inaugural lunch that he was praying for Kennedy , who he called a warrior for civil rights .
Kennedy underwent surgery for a malignant brain tumor last year , after being diagnosed in May .
He has represented the state of Massachusetts in the Senate since 1962 and is the only surviving brother of the late President John Kennedy .
A Nigerian oil workers ' union says it has suspended a nationwide strike aimed at forcing the government to lower the price of diesel .
Officials from Nigeria 's National Union of Petroleum and Gas Workers Monday said they called off the strike after the government agreed to address their demands .
Union officials say they are giving the government two weeks to come up with a plan to lower diesel prices , which have more than doubled in recent weeks .
Long lines formed at gas stations across the country after the strike began Friday , as drivers feared the strike could disrupt supplies .
Nigeria is Africa 's biggest crude exporter .
But attacks on oil pipelines and the kidnapping of foreign workers have significantly cut Nigeria 's output and contributed to record high oil prices around the world .
Pope John Paul II has denounced using hostages as bargaining pieces and called for respect of human life .
The pontiff made the comments in French Saturday as he accepted a political courage award from a French Catholic television station and French political magazine .
He told the audience at the Vatican that his thoughts go out to journalists , who he described as artisans of peace and liberty , and face danger in conflict zones .
He said there is no justification for kidnappers using a human life to bargain for demands .
His comments come as officials still seek word on two French journalists who have been missing in Iraq since August .
Militants who claimed to have abducted the pair have called for France to repeal its headscarf ban in state schools .
Nobel Peace Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei began his career four decades ago as a diplomat in his native Egypt .
After receiving a bachelor 's degree in law at the University of Cairo , he joined the foreign ministry and was posted to the United Nations office in Geneva .
In 1974 , he earned a doctorate in International Law at New York University in the United States , where he also taught for several years .
Mr. ElBaradei , 63 , joined the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency in 1984 and rose quickly through the organization , becoming its director in 1997 .
In recent years , Mr. ElBaradei 's work has taken him to such political hot spots as North Korea , Libya , Iran and Iraq .
Crowds are gathering in the U.S. city of New Orleans Tuesday to celebrate Mardi Gras , which literally means " Fat Tuesday " .
Eleven parades will be taking place in the city Tuesday , and street parties will continue until midnight .
Mardi Gras , or Carnival as it is known elsewhere , is a joyful time celebrated in many predominately Roman Catholic countries .
It precedes Lent , the somber Christian observance leading up to Easter .
City officials say the crowd is smaller than last year , but still party-goers are pouring into New Orleans ' famous French Quarter .
Many of them are in costume , wearing purple , gold and green beads , feather boas and masks .
Lavish Mardi Gras parades were also staged in New Orleans Tuesday evening , one of them led by singer Harry Connick Jr .
A panel headed by British Prime Minister Tony Blair is calling on wealthy nations to spend $ 25 billion a year more to help reverse poverty in Africa .
In a report released Friday , in London and Addis Ababa , Ethiopia , the Africa Commission calls on rich nations to end trade barriers and agricultural subsidies and cancel all debt for poor African countries .
The report also calls on African governments to commit to transparency and to ratify the U.N. Covenant on Corruption .
The panel urges developed nations to monitor corruption and reject illicit funds deposited in their banks by corrupt officials from African nations .
Mr. Blair says there is " no excuse , no defense , no justification " for the plight of millions in Africa today .
The International Atomic Energy Agency has decided to use its half of the $ 1 million Nobel Peace Prize award to improve cancer treatment and nutrition in the developing world .
The 35-member board of the U.N. nuclear agency agreed Friday to create a fund for fellowships and training to improve cancer management and childhood nutrition in these nations .
In October , the Norwegian Nobel committee presented the agency and its director , Mohamed ElBaradei , with the prestigious prize .
The award was given in recognition of their efforts to use nuclear energy in safe , peaceful ways and prevent it from being used for military purposes .
Mr. ElBaradei plans to use his share of the prize money to assist orphanages in his native Egypt .
Shi'ite and Kurdish political leaders in Iraq say the new government could be formed within the next week , as marathon negotiations on its makeup continue .
Jawad al-Maliky of the Shi'ite-dominated United Iraqi Alliance told reporters Friday the National Assembly will likely meet again next Thursday and vote on the proposed president , prime minster and cabinet .
But some other politicians have given a slightly longer time frame , saying the parliament will not reconvene until next Saturday .
The new interim assembly was sworn in Wednesday , but the government was not named because Shi'ite and Kurdish politicians have not been able to compromise on several significant issues .
Some Iraqis have expressed frustration over the prolonged talks , after millions defied insurgents and risked attack to vote in the January 30th election .
Japanese authorities have confirmed that a bird flu outbreak in the country 's south was caused by the deadly H5N1 virus .
Authorities said Saturday officials are culling tens of thousands of birds on the affected poultry farm in Miyazaki prefecture .
The culling began Friday , after preliminary tests showed the chickens were infected with an H5 strain of the bird flu virus .
Earlier this month in the same area , Japan confirmed its first outbreak of H5N1 in three years .
No human infections have been reported .
Bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since its emergence in 2003 .
Belgian officials have tightened security in the country after the arrest of 14 suspects accused of planning to free an imprisoned member of al-Qaida .
The suspects were detained early Friday in a police raid .
Officials say they planned to break Nizar Trabelsi out of prison using weapons and explosives .
Authorities say they are not aware of any other actions the group had planned .
But they say they are taking precautions during the busy holiday season and have tightened security on the metro , railway stations , airports and shopping districts .
The extra security measures will remain in place at least until after New Year 's Day .
The U.S. embassy today issued a warning to American citizens of a heightened risk of terrorist attack in Brussels .
Trabelsi is serving a 10-year prison term , for planning to attack a military base in Belgium where U.S. soldiers are stationed .
He was arrested in September 2001 .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has condemned a recent incursion of Ugandan rebels into the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) .
In a statement Wednesday , Mr. Annan called for all governments in the region to use established processes to resolve the situation and boost efforts to end the activities of illegal armed groups .
He reiterated that the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of Congo violates the U.N. charter and recent mutual commitments .
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has threatened to send troops into Congo to disarm Ugandan rebels if Congo 's army and U.N. peacekeepers failed to do so .
At least 300 Ugandan rebels from the Lord 's Resistance Army crossed into Congo last month seeking political asylum .
The U.N. Security Council Tuesday expressed concern about the foreign armed groups that remain in the DRC , and welcomed a DRC plan to disarm Ugandan rebels .
The Iranian government has lifted its ban on the Cable News Network , which was imposed for misquoting President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad because of a translation error .
Officials say Mr. Ahmadinejad asked the cultural ministry to lift the ban late Monday , after CNN apologized for the mistake .
Hours earlier , Iran barred CNN journalists from the country for misquoting the president as speaking of " nuclear weapons " when he actually spoke of " nuclear technology " during a recent news conference .
CNN says the Farsi word for " technology " was mistakenly translated into " weapons . "
The U.S.-based network does not have a permanent correspondent in Iran .
But reporters have occasionally been allowed to enter the country for brief assignments .
South Korean news reports say North Korea is preparing to test fire more short-range missiles , following this week 's reported launch of two missiles .
According to the reports , intelligence sources believe the North has deployed 10 missiles on Chodo , a small island navy base off the peninsula 's western coast .
The missiles include land-to-ship and ship-to-ship missiles .
Pyongyang has banned all ships from traveling near Chodo until October 15 .
North Korea reportedly fired two missiles from Chodo on Monday as part of a military drill .
But the firings occur at a time of increased tensions between the two Korean rivals , and speculation about the health of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il.
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency says the North used an aging Russian-made aircraft to fire the two short-range missiles earlier this week , according to a source with knowledge of North Korean military affairs .
Officials say Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas plan to meet in two weeks for their first face to face talks since Mr. Abbas ' election earlier this month .
The meeting will coincide with a planned visit to the region by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
News of the talks came Saturday , as Israeli and Palestinians security officials met to discuss the security situation .
The Israelis and Palestinians have recently taken steps to try to revive the peace process .
Israel stopped offensive operations in the Gaza Strip and the Palestinians deployed thousands of police in the territory to stop militants from firing rockets on Israelis .
Mr. Abbas is also trying to get Israel and Palestinian militants to agree to a ceasefire .
Ukraine 's outgoing president , Leonid Kuchma , has fired three government officials , including one who reportedly backs opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko .
President Kuchma made the staff changes Friday .
Earlier this week , London 's Financial Times newspaper quoted one of those dismissed , presidential aide Vasil Baziv , as saying state officials called on Mr. Kuchma to use force to quell mass opposition demonstrations in Kiev .
The aide also is reported to have said that nearly all of the country 's civil servants believe that Mr. Yushchenko is already the new president of Ukraine .
Mr. Yushchenko is locked in a tight presidential race with Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
The two will face-off in a court-ordered re-vote on December 26 .
The new vote is to replace November 's flawed balloting .
President Kuchma also fired Agrarian Policy Minister Viktor Slauta and Kharkiv regional administration head Yevhen Kushnaryov .
Arab foreign ministers meeting in Cairo have agreed to support a U.S. proposal for indirect peace talks between Palestinians and Israelis .
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat told reporters Wednesday that members of the Arab League will back the talks for a period of four months .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , who is attending the Cairo meeting , has said he would abide by the Arab League 's decision .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also welcomed the decision .
The announcement follows a U.S. offer to mediate discussions between the two sides in an effort to revive the stalled peace process .
On Tuesday , a U.S. State Department spokesman , P.J. Crowley , said Washington believes Israel and the Palestinians are " getting closer " to starting a dialogue .
Talks broke down over a year ago .
One of the biggest disputes is Israel 's continued settlement activity in territory that Palestinians claim for a future state .
Preliminary Palestinian election results indicate President Mahmoud Abbas ' ruling Fatah movement has won more than half the votes cast in Thursday 's West Bank municipal elections .
Election officials gave varying results Friday , but all showed a clear Fatah victory .
The militant group Hamas , which was expected to have a strong showing , garnered just over 20 percent of the votes .
Election turnout was strong , with over 80 percent of eligible voters choosing local councils in 104 West Bank towns and villages .
Hamas downplayed its poor showing , saying many of its candidates were arrested in a week of Israeli raids and airstrikes preceding the vote .
Friday , Israeli troops killed two militants from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades during a raid for wanted Palestinians in Balata refugee camp , in Nablus .
Israeli troops also killed a 13-year-old boy during an incident at Askar camp .
A diplomat close to a U.N. investigation of Iran 's nuclear program says Pakistan has agreed to hand over used centrifuge components to the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency .
Inspectors hope tests will prove whether traces of enriched uranium found in Iran came from the Pakistani equipment , as Tehran has argued , rather than from material produced at the Iranian site .
Each batch of enriched uranium has a unique " fingerprint . "
Islamabad acknowledged for the first time last week that Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan gave equipment to Iran .
It has previously admitted that his group sold technology and blueprints to North Korea , Libya and Iran .
Iran insists it intends to use enriched uranium only in power stations , but Washington argues that Iran is making fuel for atomic warheads .
The Afghan government says it is not concerned about the recently launched clandestine Taleban radio station that is broadcasting anti-U.S. and anti-government propaganda .
A presidential spokesman says since the Afghan people suffered enough under the ousted Taleban regime , the propaganda is not expected to have an impact .
He also said he does not believe the Taleban remnants can continue such activities for long because the government intends to bring them to justice sooner rather than later .
A U.S. military spokeswoman in Kabul says it is up to the Afghan government how it wants to deal with the broadcasts .
But she said the area targeted by the broadcasts will definitely be under U.S. military surveillance .
Nepal 's army has deployed more helicopters and armed escorts along highways Sunday in an effort to break a Maoist blockade .
Traffic was light again on the second day of the nationwide blockade .
The Maoists are protesting King Gyanendra 's decision to dismiss the government , impose a state of emergency and suspend civil liberties , as well as putting the media under military control .
The rebels say they will continue until the monarch reverses his actions , which have prompted protests from many countries .
The king dismissed the government for failing to hold parliamentary elections and stop the communist insurgency .
The blockade began on the ninth anniversary of the rebels ' violent uprising against the monarchy , during which more than 11,000 people have been killed .
Witnesses in Burma have reported two explosions in the country 's main city , Rangoon .
They say Burmese security forces sealed off a park and a bus station hit by the explosions , which happened Tuesday night about an hour apart .
The witnesses say police brought in bomb-sniffing dogs and ordered onlookers to disperse .
Burma 's military rulers made no comment on the explosions and there were no reports of serious casualties .
Burma has seen several small bombings in recent years .
The military government has blamed them on its political opponents or ethnic rebel groups seeking autonomy .
The groups deny carrying out such attacks .
Burma has been under near-continuous military rule since 1962 .
Heads of state from French-speaking nations are gathering in the west African nation of Burkina Faso for a two-day summit to discuss the crisis in Ivory Coast .
Leaders of some world hotspots : Sudan , Haiti , Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo - top the guest list .
However , Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo is not expected to attend .
French President Jacques Chirac is expected to press delegates to renew a call for peace in Ivory Coast , after the government raided rebel bases this month , shattering an 18-month truce .
The raids killed nine members of a French peacekeeping force , which responded by destroying Ivorian warplanes .
The United Nations High Commission for Refugees will be on an eight day mission to Uganda and Tanzania starting Monday
A U.N. statement says Antonio Guterres will oversee the start of a new program that would help refugees from Burundi return to their country for the first time since 1972 .
The commissioner 's office says some 218,000 Burundians were forced out of their homeland by violence that year , and now he would like to get as many home as possible .
In a deal reached by Burundi , Tanzania and the U.N. refugee agency , 172,000 of the refugees will be allowed to stay in Tanzania and become citizens .
The other 46,000 plan to return home to Burundi .
Afghan officials say at least 32 people have died in a head-on collision between two buses in southern Afghanistan .
At least 35 others were injured .
Police said the crash occurred Monday on the main road linking the capital Kabul and the southern city of Kandahar .
The Reuters news agency reports the crash occurred at a high speed about an hour before sundown .
In other news , NATO reports that a soldier with its International Security Assistance Force mission was killed and at least four others wounded while on patrol in southern Afghanistan on Monday .
Al-Qaida in Iraq says it will put on trial two employees of the Moroccan embassy in Baghdad that it kidnapped last month .
In an unverifiable Internet posting , the group led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi said Tuesday an Islamic court would determine the men 's fate .
The Moroccan government has confirmed that two of its employees disappeared October 20 while driving from Jordan to Baghdad .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says it released 500 detainees from Abu Ghraib prison Tuesday , ahead of this week 's Eid al-Fitr holiday , which marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
None of those released was guilty of violent crimes .
And the U.S. military reported the death of another service member .
The soldier , killed Monday , was the 93rd American killed in Iraq last month , making it the second deadliest month this year for American forces in Iraq .
The U.S. Army began work Thursday on a long process to destroy nearly 950,000 liters of deadly VX nerve gas agent that has been stored in the midestern U.S. state of Indiana .
Army contractors drained two of 1,600 hardened steel containers at the Newport Chemical Depot and moved the nerve agent into a holding tank .
Friday , the VX will be pumped into a chemical reactor where it will be mixed with water and sodium hydroxide .
The mixture will be heated for several days to determine when the chemical has been neutralized .
The entire process will take more than two years to complete .
Authorities want to ship the neutralized chemical to a New Jersey treatment plant before it is dumped into the Delaware River .
Experts say a single drop of VX on the skin can kill a person in less than 12 seconds .
A top U.S. official has called on Burma 's military government to free pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners .
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill said Aung San Suu Kyi 's continued house arrest poses a real problem for Burma being able to rejoin the international community .
A Nobel laureate , Aung San Suu Kyi has spent most of the last 17 years under some form of detention .
Her latest term of house arrest is up for review on May 27 .
Aung San Suu Kyi 's National League for Democracy won parliamentary elections in 1990 .
But the military junta did not allow it to take power .
Last week the United States said it is renewing sanctions on Burma for at least another year , saying the military government is becoming more brutal .
The United Nations estimates there are at least 1,100 political prisoners in Burma .
Indian officials say at least 32 people have been killed by a blaze in a southern India firecracker warehouse .
Police say two people have been arrested , including the owner of the warehouse .
Ten other people were reported injured in the fire late Friday on the eve of the Diwali holiday , also known as the festival of lights .
The deadly fire ignited in a warehouse in the village of Pallipat , 90 kilometers from the port city of Chennai .
Among the victims were people buying firecrackers for the holiday .
Diwali celebrations are spread over several days and involve wearing new clothes , sharing sweets and snacks , as well as lighting many lamps , candles and firecrackers .
Rescue workers have retrieved three more bodies from the wreckage of a passenger train that derailed Saturday in southern India , bringing the death toll to at least 113 people .
The train plunged into a rain-swollen river in Andhra Pradesh where flash floods had washed away a portion of track .
Military and other rescue personnel used hacksaws and other machinery to dismantle the partially submerged coaches and rescued at least 100 injured passengers .
Railway safety officials have begun an investigation into the accident .
State-run Indian Railways transports more than 13 million passengers daily .
Each year , some 300 train accidents take place across the country , most are blamed on lax safety standards .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean , but larger than the Indian Ocean , Southern Ocean , and Arctic Ocean ) .
The Kiel Canal ( Germany ) , Oresund ( Denmark-Sweden ) , Bosporus ( Turkey ) , Strait of Gibraltar ( Morocco-Spain ) , and the Saint Lawrence Seaway ( Canada-US ) are important strategic access waterways .
The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth world ocean , the Southern Ocean , removed the portion of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude .
Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world 's most densely populated and least developed countries .
The economy is predominately agricultural with about 80 % of the population living in rural areas .
Agriculture , which has benefited from fertilizer subsidies since 2006 , accounts for more than one-third of GDP and 90 % of export revenues .
The performance of the tobacco sector is key to short-term growth as tobacco accounts for more than half of exports .
The economy depends on substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF , the World Bank , and individual donor nations .
In 2006 , Malawi was approved for relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) program .
In December 2007 , the US granted Malawi eligibility status to receive financial support within the Millennium Challenge Corporation ( MCC ) initiative .
The government faces many challenges including developing a market economy , improving educational facilities , facing up to environmental problems , dealing with the rapidly growing problem of HIV / AIDS , and satisfying foreign donors that fiscal discipline is being tightened .
Since 2005 President MUTHARIKA'S government has exhibited improved financial discipline under the guidance of Finance Minister Goodall GONDWE and signed a three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility worth $ 56 million with the IMF .
Improved relations with the IMF lead other international donors to resume aid as well .
The government has announced infrastructure projects that could yield improvements , such as a new oil pipeline , for better fuel access , and the potential for a waterway link through Mozambican rivers to the ocean , for better transportation options .
Since 2009 , however , Malawi has experienced some setbacks , including a general shortage of foreign exchange , which has damaged its ability to pay for imports , and fuel shortages that hinder transportation and productivity .
Investment fell 23 % in 2009 , and continued to decline in 2010 .
The government has failed to address barriers to investment such as unreliable power , water shortages , poor telecommunications infrastructure , and the high costs of services .
Governments , officials and activists worldwide are commemorating International Human Rights Day Friday .
Today marks the anniversary of the U.N. General Assembly 's adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 .
The General Assembly will commemorate Human Rights Day by holding a plenary session on human rights education .
The session also marks the end of the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education , which began in 1995 .
The world body also plans to hold panel discussions on human rights education in schools , as well as a human rights year in review .
Iran is warning the Group of Eight industrialized nations against making any decisions on its nuclear program without first consulting Tehran .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says because Iran is not attending the group 's summit this month , a decision made there could negate progress toward resolving the standoff over Iran 's nuclear program .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator , Ali Larijani , meets this week with European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana to discuss an international offer of incentives for Iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
The five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council plus Germany offered the incentives package .
They want Iran to respond before the Group of Eight summit on July 15 .
Iran has said it will not respond until late August .
The U.S. and many of its European allies believe Iran is planning to build nuclear weapons .
Iran denies the charge .
China 's official news agency says the death toll from Tropical Storm Bilis has risen to 518 .
Xinhua says Guangdong province reported an additional 36 deaths Saturday .
On Friday , the official death toll doubled from previous counts .
The Xinhua report did not say how the newly reported deaths occurred .
Rains from the tropical storm caused massive flooding and triggered landslides in several provinces .
Hardest hit was Hunan , where the storm is blamed for the deaths of 346 people .
Bilis hit China 's southeastern coast July 14 , after first striking the Philippines , where it left 28 dead .
One person was killed in Taiwan .
Palestinian sources say two police officers have been killed and several others wounded in an explosion in the northern Gaza Strip that destroyed a building used by Palestinian security forces .
A Palestinian Interior Ministry spokesman accused Israel in the incident at the Jabaliya refugee camp .
But the Israeli army said it was not involved .
Israel has recently stepped up air strikes and artillery shelling against militant targets in northern Gaza , in response to ongoing rocket fire from Gaza militants targeting southern Israel .
A passenger plane flying from Dubai to India hit an air pocket Sunday over India , plunging 4,600 meters , injuring more than a dozen people .
The plane dropped from a height of about approximately 7,620 meters before the pilot could bring the aircraft under control .
Aviation officials say some of the injured passengers were not wearing seat belts when the plane fell .
The aircraft carried 361 passengers and 14 crew members .
The Emirates Boeing 777 landed safely at its destination , the southern Indian city of Kochi , where doctors examined the passengers .
An air pocket is a downward air current that causes an aircraft to lose altitude abruptly .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has announced a $ 20 million fund to support small- and medium-sized businesses in earthquake-ravaged Haiti .
Mr. Clinton make the announcement Thursday in Haiti , along with Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim and Canadian businessman Frank Giustra , who each plan to donate half the seed money for the fund .
In a statement , Mr. Clinton said the fund recognizes the important role small-and medium-sized enterprises play in helping to build a self-sustainable economy in Haiti .
The announcement came shortly before the inaugural board meeting of the Interim Haiti Reconstruction Commission , which is being chaired by Mr. Clinton and Haitian Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive .
The commission is overseeing assistance to the Caribbean nation .
The powerful January 12 earthquake killed at least 217,000 people and left one million homeless .
Many of the homeless are still living in tent cities .
Mr. Clinton is the U.N. special envoy to Haiti .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has assured President Bush that recent political developments in Ukraine will in no way affect his country 's hopes to eventually join NATO and the European Union .
In a statement , Saturday , the Ukrainian presidency said the two men had spoken by telephone .
The statement quoted Mr. Yushchenko as telling Mr. Bush his recent actions were aimed at consolidating democracy and making Ukraine 's government more efficient .
Thursday , Mr. Yushchenko dismissed Prime Minister Yulija Tymoshenko , one of the key figures behind the " Orange Revolution , " the popular movement that brought him to power early this year .
The Ukrainian president also dismissed the entire cabinet amid reports of government infighting and allegations of official fraud .
He named senior regional official Yuri Yekhanurov acting prime minister .
Ms. Tymoshenko says she and her supporters plan to run their own candidates in next year 's parliamentary elections .
Lawyers for former Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky say they will appeal his fraud and tax evasion conviction to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg , France .
Thursday , a Moscow court rejected Khodorkovsky 's appeal of his conviction , but supporters of the former head of the oil firm Yukos say authorities rushed through the process to prevent him from running in a December parliamentary byelection .
In a related development Friday , the Moscow prosecutor 's office said it has asked that three of Khodorkovsky 's lawyers be disbarred .
A spokeswoman said the three should have represented him in his appeal as well as in his defense .
Another of his lawyers , Robert Amsterdam of Canada , said Friday Moscow authorities have revoked his visa and told him to leave the country immediately .
Russian authorities have not confirmed his statement .
Shoppers gave Madonna 's new fashion venture mixed reviews March 22 , on the occasion of its worldwide rollout .
The Material Girl 's " M By Madonna " line of clothing and accessories is being marketed by the low-priced Swedish retailer Hennes & Mauritz AB ( H&M ) .
Shoppers in New York City quickly snapped up items such as belts and small purses , but were reportedly surprised at the generally conservative approach to clothing design .
An H & M sales associate said retail action has been equally divided between sales and returns .
Madonna has often shocked contemporary audiences through such risque fashion choices as conical bras and crucifixes .
Stockholm-based H & M has more than 1,300 stores in 24 countries .
Pakistan 's new government has moved to lift harsh restrictions on the media put in place during November 's state of emergency .
Information Minister Sherry Rehman introduced legislation Friday that would clear the way for live media broadcasts .
The measure would also prevent officials at the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority from shutting down news channels , seizing equipment , or fining and imprisoning journalists .
Rehman said the new freedoms would place a " heavy responsibility " on journalists and other members of the media .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf first moved to curb the media when he declared a state of emergency on November 3 .
He lifted the state of emergency just over a month later but left restrictions on the media in place .
Authorities in Iraq say at least 14 people have been killed and 75 injured in a fire that swept through a hospital in the southern Iraqi city of Nasiriyah early Sunday .
The Italian news agency ( ANSA ) says Italian military personnel stationed in the area helped evacuate the facility .
The cause of the blaze has not been determined .
But authorities say they do not believe the fire resulted from insurgent attacks .
Meanwhile , eight Chinese workers taken hostage in Iraq earlier this month have turned up unharmed in Baghdad .
Reuters ( news agency ) says a new video shows the eight men being greeted by Chinese diplomatic officials at a mosque west of Baghdad .
In a video released Saturday , kidnappers said they released the captives after Beijing promised to discourage its citizens from traveling to Iraq .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Iran has so far shown no interest in a proposed European deal over its nuclear program .
Ms. Rice says Iran has given no indication that it will accept the offer of trade benefits in exchange for an end to the Tehran government 's nuclear ambitions .
She added that the world is coming to a united position that Iran must not be able to produce a nuclear weapon .
She spoke in Washington ahead of talks with President Bush .
Earlier Thursday , White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Mr. Bush is looking at how the United States can best support the European effort and make sure it gets Iran to abandon its nuclear ambition .
The United States says Iran is secretly trying to develop a nuclear weapon , a charge Iran denies .
Russia says it will not pay a higher rent to Ukraine for basing its Black Sea fleet on Ukraine 's Crimean peninsula .
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin says the annual rent for the naval base is not subject to change , because it was fixed by agreement with Ukraine in 1997 .
Under the deal , Russia pays $ 93 million a year to use the base .
Ukraine wants to increase that figure significantly to reflect current market prices .
Karasin met with Ukrainian officials in Kiev Tuesday to try to resolve the dispute .
Both sides said they would continue discussing the issue .
They also agreed to conduct an inventory of lighthouses and other Black Sea facilities that Ukraine claims as its own .
Scattered over more than three-quarters of a million square kilometers of ocean , the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory of Australia in 1969 .
They are uninhabited except for a small meteorological staff on the Willis Islets .
Automated weather stations , beacons , and a lighthouse occupy many other islands and reefs .
Founding president and liberation struggle icon Jomo KENYATTA led Kenya from independence in 1963 until his death in 1978 , when President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a constitutional succession .
The country was a de~facto one-party state from 1969 until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National Union ( KANU ) made itself the sole legal party in Kenya .
MOI acceded to internal and external pressure for political liberalization in late 1991 .
The ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge KANU from power in elections in 1992 and 1997 , which were marred by violence and fraud , but were viewed as having generally reflected the will of the Kenyan people .
President MOI stepped down in December 2002 following fair and peaceful elections .
Mwai KIBAKI , running as the candidate of the multiethnic , united opposition group , the National Rainbow Coalition ( NARC ) , defeated KANU candidate Uhuru KENYATTA and assumed the presidency following a campaign centered on an anticorruption platform .
KIBAKI 's NARC coalition splintered in 2005 over a constitutional review process .
Government defectors joined with KANU to form a new opposition coalition , the Orange Democratic Movement , which defeated the government 's draft constitution in a popular referendum in November 2005 .
KIBAKI 's reelection in December 2007 brought charges of vote rigging from ODM candidate Raila ODINGA and unleashed two months of violence in which as many as 1,500 people died .
UN-sponsored talks in late February produced a powersharing accord bringing ODINGA into the government in the restored position of prime minister .
Kenya in August 2010 adopted a new constitution that eliminates the role of prime minister after the next presidential election .
Taleban militants have freed one German and four Afghans held hostage in Afghanistan since July in exchange for the release of several Taleban prisoners .
Jaghato district chief Mohammed Nahim in Wardak province says the hostage swap took place earlier Wednesday .
The official and the private Afghan news agency , Pajhwok , says the freed Taleban militants were related to the kidnappers .
The German , Rudolf Blechschmidt , was captured in Wardak province along with the Afghans and another German , who became ill while in captivity and was shot dead .
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier confirmed the release of the engineer , saying officials were happy and relieved .
Blechschmidt appeared in a video in August pleading for his freedom and saying his health was deteriorating .
Taleban kidnappers demanded Germany withdraw its troops serving with the NATO mission in Afghanistan .
The German government refused .
A former Russian prime minister and retired Russian general will travel to the war crimes tribunal at the Hague to speak in defense of former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic .
Retired Colonel General Leonid Ivashov will testify Friday and former Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov on Monday .
The general said Thursday the men believe the charges against Mr. Milosevic are far-fetched , and that claims he committed war crimes have been fabricated by those who launched the 1999 NATO bombing campaign over Kosovo .
General Ivashov said former prime minister and foreign minister Yevgeny Primakov also will speak on Mr. Milosevic 's behalf in late November .
The former Yugoslav leader faces more than 60 counts of war crimes stemming from the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s .
The NATO assault was launched to end Serb aggression against ethnic Albanians .
In February 2007 , the Iles Eparses became an integral part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands ( TAAF ) .
The Southern Lands are now divided into five administrative districts , two of which are archipelagos , Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen ; the third is a district composed of two volcanic islands , Ile Saint-Paul and Ile Amsterdam ; the fourth , Iles Eparses , consists of five scattered tropical islands around Madagascar .
They contain no permanent inhabitants and are visited only by researchers studying the native fauna , scientists at the various scientific stations , fishermen , and military personnel .
The fifth district is the Antarctic portion , which consists of " Adelie Land , " a thin slice of the Antarctic continent discovered and claimed by the French in 1840 .
Google users in China will no longer be automatically redirected to an unfiltered website in Hong Kong when they open the popular Internet search engine .
Instead , they will find a page with a link they can click on to go to the Hong Kong site for unfiltered searches .
Google will continue to offer music and other non-controversial services on the main China site .
The American Internet giant began redirecting users to Hong Kong in January to protest Chinese censorship and an attempt to hack into the e-mail accounts of human rights activists .
But a blog by Google 's chief legal officer David Drummond on Tuesday said China had warned the company its operating license would not be renewed if the practice continued .
The license expires on Wednesday .
U.S. Republicans say the country 's health care costs could be lowered by cutting down on lawsuits and allowing people to buy health insurance plans across state lines .
Giving the Republican Party 's weekly Saturday radio and Internet address , Illinois Congressman Mark Kirk said his party 's suggested reforms are " common sense . "
He said he regrets their health care reform bill was rejected .
Kirk said the Democrats ' plan is " a new massive spending program , " when the national debt already " tops $ 12 trillion . "
Last week , Democrats in the House of Representatives passed their plan .
It includes a government-run option for health insurance and extends coverage to an additional 36 million people .
The government estimates the new bill would cost about $ 1.2 trillion over 10 years .
The U.S. Senate has yet to pass health care legislation .
The United States is concerned about the outbreak of violence in eastern Uzbekistan .
A State Department spokesman in Washington , Richard Boucher , has called Friday on both the Uzbek government and the protesters to avoid violence and seek a peaceful way out of the crisis .
The European Union is blaming authorities in Tashkent for the violence .
A spokesman for the European Commission says the clashes in Andijan were a consequence of the government 's lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law , as well as its failure to ease poverty .
In Moscow , Russian authorities have blamed Uzbek protesters for the violence .
The head of the Duma State Committee for International Affairs , Konstantin Kosachev , warns that the Adijon uprising could trigger a wave of unrest across a wider area of Central Asia .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has agreed to meet a Kashmiri separatist leader to discuss the future of the disputed region .
Indian media say Mr. Singh invited Sajjad Lone , chairman of Kashmir 's People 's Conference , to talks in New Delhi on Saturday .
Mr. Singh has promised to meet with all separatist leaders from Indian-controlled Kashmir who have renounced violence .
The prime minister held his first talks with a Kashmiri group in September of last year .
On that occasion , he met with moderate members of the Hurriyat Conference , an umbrella organization of Kashmiri separatists .
India has been fighting an insurgency in Kashmir for more than 15 years , which has killed at least 44,000 people .
Kashmiri separatists have made various demands , ranging from independence to merging with neighboring Pakistan .
A U.S. health expert says the burden of responding to a possible bird flu pandemic reaching the United States will largely fall on local governments .
Michael Osterholm says the U.S. military will not be able to respond quickly if a pandemic spreads to all 50 U.S. states , leaving the effort up to state and city officials .
A plan drafted by the Bush administration to help the country deal with a possible bird flu outbreak says nearly two million people could die , in a worst-case scenario .
The plan says hospitals would be overwhelmed with patients , which could number more than eight million .
Burmese officials say they plan to release 5,000 prisoners to mark the 60th anniversary of the country 's independence on Tuesday .
Burma 's military government issued the announcement on state-radio Sunday .
Since November , officials have freed some 20,000 prisoners , including some who had been illegally jailed by the former National Intelligence Bureau .
The government has dismantled the organization led by disgraced Prime Minister Khin Nyunt .
A U.S. newspaper says the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has maintained a secret prison for valuable al-Qaida detainees at the U.S. detention center in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The Washington Post Friday quotes military officials and intelligence officers as saying the existence of the prison has never been made public before .
The Postsays it is unclear whether the facility is still in operation .
But , it cites intelligence sources as saying the prison has housed detainees from Pakistan , West Africa , Yemen and other countries .
The newspaper says most international terrorism suspects in U.S. custody are held by the U.S. military - not the CIA .
Those held by the military are guaranteed access to the International Committee of the Red Cross .
But the Post says the CIA detainees are held under separate rules and far greater secrecy .
Officials at the CIA had no immediate comment .
Ten of Egypt 's opposition groups have joined forces against President Hosni Mubarak 's ruling party in parliamentary elections set for November .
The new alliance , the National Front for Change , includes groups across the political spectrum including liberals , leftists , Islamists and the Kifaya or " Enough " protest movement .
The outlawed Muslim Brotherhood says it will coordinate fully with the coalition but will field candidates as independents rather than on the unified list .
Reuters news agency says talks are under way to bring the opposition Ghad tomorrow party into the new coalition .
Ghad 's leader , Ayman Nour , is facing a forgery trial after running second to President Mubarak in September 's presidential voting .
The International Olympic Committee has voted to eliminate baseball and softball from the 2012 Summer Games in London .
The sports were the only two of 28 that failed to win a majority of votes in a ballot of members at an IOC meeting Friday in Singapore .
The last time a sport was eliminated from the Olympics was in 1936 , when water polo was removed .
The committee will now consider replacing baseball and softball with two sports from a waiting list .
Up for consideration are karate , golf , squash , rugby and roller sports .
Meanwhile , the IOC announced that equestrian events for the 2008 Beijing Games will be held in Hong Kong .
Organizers in Beijing had pushed for the move , saying a number of equine diseases are prevalent in the Chinese capital .
Taiwan has unveiled two new surveillance aircraft purchased from the United States , designed to reinforce its defenses against rival China .
Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian showed off the new E2-K planes during a public ceremony Saturday at an air force base in the island 's southern Pingtung region .
Officials say the new planes will expand the range of surveillance radar and can also guide fighter planes to intercept incoming aircraft .
The new planes are part of effort by President Chen to balance Taiwan 's military strength with China 's .
But opposition lawmakers argue he is entering the island in an expensive arms race it can not win .
Taiwan split from China amid a civil war in 1949 .
China considers the island part of its territory .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say air strikes have killed at least 12 militants allegedly involved in sneaking foreign fighters from Pakistan into Afghanistan .
The coalition said in a statement Tuesday the overnight strikes hit a pair of bunkers in eastern Khost province .
The operation targeted insurgents linked to Taliban militant leader Siraj Haqqani , who is accused of carrying out many attacks in Afghanistan .
The exact number of militant casualties is still not clear .
Meanwhile , at a main border checkpoint in eastern Afghanistan , officials say a male suicide bomber disguised himself as a woman and attacked the Torkham crossing .
Authorities say the burqa-clad bomber blew himself up at the women 's crossing point , killing a police officer and a child .
They say the bombing also wounded at least 10 people .
Torkham is one of the main border crossings between Pakistan and Afghanistan .
A top Russian official says authorities have thwarted two separate attempted break-ins at Russian nuclear weapons installations .
Colonel General Igor Valynkin , who heads the department responsible for nuclear weapons safety , says lone perpetrators tried to illegally enter the facilities in the western part of the country in 2002 and 2003 .
The official told journalists in Moscow Wednesday that the biggest potential threat to Russia 's nuclear facilities is from Chechen terrorists .
He says Russia is using U.S. and German funding to boost security at nuclear facilities .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he is close to arranging an initial meeting with Colombian rebels for talks on releasing scores of hostages .
Chavez says his efforts to mediate an exchange of hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , are going well and said he expects a meeting to take place in coming days .
Chavez made the comments Friday after meeting in Ballenas with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe .
The Venezuelan leader has offered to meet with representatives of the FARC to discuss a proposed swap of some 45 hostages in rebel custody .
They include soldiers , police officers , French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt and three Americans .
Last month , Colombia rejected an initial request by Venezuela to create a demilitarized zone for the meeting .
Colombia has one of the world 's highest kidnapping rates .
Nigeria 's main militant group says it has freed 19 Nigerian oil workers kidnapped by other gunmen nearly a month ago .
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta , or MEND , says in a statement that it released the hostages Sunday in Nigeria 's Rivers state .
MEND said it rescued the hostages in mid-September , a few days after they were abducted by local pirates .
The group said today it is still holding a Ukrainian and two British nationals captured with the other hostages .
It says they can not be released because of " security concerns . "
The oil-producing Niger Delta has been the scene of violent unrest during the last three years , much of it focused against the oil industry .
Militants say they want impoverished local residents to get more of the region 's oil wealth .
An Israeli newspaper says Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's health problems were far more serious than his doctors publicly acknowledged after he suffered a first stroke last month Doctors treating Mr. Sharon after the December 18 stroke said he had a small hole in his heart since birth .
He was scheduled to undergo a surgical procedure this month to repair the defect but suffered a massive second stroke the day before .
The Haaretz newspaper says its own investigation revealed that Mr. Sharon also suffered from a large aneurysm in the septum - a condition known to be a source of cerebral blood clots .
The report says he also suffered from other heart ailments .
The 77-year-old Israeli leader remains comatose in a Jerusalem hospital since suffering a massive brain hemorrhage on January 4 .
Russia and Venezuela have signed two energy cooperation pacts that promote closer ties between Russia 's state-run natural gas monopoly , Gazprom , and Venezuela 's state oil firm ( PDVSA ) .
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his Venezuelan counterpart , Hugo Chavez , attended the signing ceremony Friday in the Russian city of Orenburg .
Russian energy officials recently announced they will expand their investment in Venezuela 's oil industry .
Russia also says it will lend Venezuela $ 1 billion to buy military hardware .
President Chavez is a harsh critic of the United States .
His visit to Russia comes as relations between Moscow and Washington have soured in the wake of last month 's conflict between Russia and U.S. ally Georgia .
The Venezuelan leader was scheduled to hold talks with French leaders Friday as part of a trip that has so far taken him to Cuba , China and Russia .
Israel 's ruling Likud party is urging a parliamentary referendum on Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's controversial pullout plan from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank .
Likud 's Central Committee voted overwhelmingly Thursday to call for a non-binding referendum on the disengagement plan .
Party members who are against the withdrawal say they will join forces with far-right legislators later this month when the state budget comes up for a vote .
Failure to pass the budget would force snap elections and shelve the Gaza plan .
Thursday 's vote follows a meeting Wednesday between Vice Prime Minister and Labor Party leader Shimon Peres and Palestinian Cabinet Minister Mohammed Dahlan .
Mr. Peres said one of the topics he discussed was a possible handover of businesses held by Jewish settlers in Gaza to Palestinians , when Israel pulls out of the territory .
In Israel , a key Labor Party lawmaker has said she will defect from the left-wing party to join Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's new centrist party .
Tuesday 's announcement from Dalia Itzik has further fueled speculation that her close Labor ally , Shimon Peres , will also join forces with Prime Minister Sharon 's new Kadima party .
Mr. Peres is expected to announce his decision on Wednesday .
Mr. Peres recently lost his party leadership post to Amir Peretz .
Mr. Peretz withdrew Labor from Mr. Sharon 's Likud-led coalition , forcing early elections scheduled for March .
Mr. Sharon quit Likud last week because he faced a revolt from right-wing deputies who opposed his decision to withdraw Israel from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Peres supported Mr. Sharon 's disengagement plan .
President Bush is scheduled to make another visit to the U.S. Gulf Coast region Tuesday to get an update on recovery efforts following Hurricane Katrina .
Mr. Bush is to meet business and community leaders in storm hit Gulfport , Mississippi before traveling to New Orleans , Louisiana .
There , he is to visit a business trying to recover from Katrina and get an on-the-ground briefing about Tropical Storm Rita .
Forecasters are warning this latest storm could move into the Gulf of Mexico and possibly hit New Orleans later this week .
Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco has urged residents in the state 's coastal regions to prepare for evacuation .
And New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has suspended the scheduled return of New Orleans citizens .
Later this week , President Bush is expected to visit several cities in Texas , Arkansas and Alabama that have taken in people left homeless by Katrina .
Former U.S. Defense Secretary William Perry has called on the Bush administration to follow suggestions made by the Iraq Study Group on the best way to move forward in Iraq .
In the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday , Perry said the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq failed to get support from Iraq 's regional neighbors and should not have disbanded the Iraqi army - leaving hundreds of thousands of young , armed men with nothing to do .
Perry was defense secretary under former President Bill Clinton .
He echoed the Iraq Study Group 's call for a change in mission .
He said the United States should free up and re-set its ground forces , accelerate the training of the Iraqi army and police force , and set a goal of having all rapid-reaction forces out of Iraq by 2008 .
The Iraq Study Group is a bipartisan panel commissioned by President Bush .
It released its findings earlier this month .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United States has made mistakes in Iraq , but it was not a mistake to oust Saddam Hussein or to push for democracy in the Middle East .
In an interview Saturday with the British Broadcasting Company , Rice said " the birth of democracy is sometimes difficult . "
Earlier she and British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw conferred with Muslim community leaders in Straw 's home city of Blackburn .
Rice also visited the nearby city of Liverpool .
The U.S. top diplomat is in Britain for two days at Straw 's invitation following his visit to Rice 's hometown last year .
Hundreds of anti-war protesters have followed Rice throughout her stay .
Bangladesh fire officials say a five-story building has collapsed in the capital of Dhaka , killing at least 20 people .
Authorities said the building toppled late Tuesday , flattening surrounding homes .
At least 25 people were injured when the building fell .
Police say it was poorly constructed .
Rescue teams are continuing to search the rubble for bodies and survivors .
Officials fear the death count could rise as several people are reported missing .
Officials say many of the victims were sleeping in the surrounding homes -- poorly constructed shanties with tin roofs -- when the building collapsed .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has asked the Russian people to forgive the suffering Germany inflicted on them and others during World War II The German leader said no other country was required to pay as high a cost in the victory against Hitler 's Germany as the former Soviet Union .
His comments came in an article in Sunday 's edition of the Russian newspaper .
He noted the loss of more than 27 million lives and called the indescribable destruction in the former Soviet Union " frightening results of World War II " .
Mr. Schroeder said the reconciliation between between Germany and its eastern neighbors , despite the horrors of world war and the later Cold War , is one of the miracles of European history .
The article appeared on the eve of ceremonies in Moscow marking the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe .
Iraqi security officials say unidentified gunmen have shot and killed the imam of a Sunni mosque and three other people in Baghdad .
Authorities say the attackers gunned down the Sunni cleric near his home in the western part of the city Wednesday .
Investigators say his guards were also shot .
North of Baghdad , gunmen killed an off-duty policeman and a civilian in central Mosul .
A woman who was nearby was wounded in the attack .
Also Wednesday , a roadside bomb wounded at least one person in the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk .
Insurgents in Iraq Tuesday released a video tape that shows a U.S. citizen held hostage and saying his life is in danger .
On the video , a man identifying himself as Roy Hallams said he is not seeking help from President Bush , but wants Arab leaders , especially Libyan leader Muammar Gadhafi , to help secure his release .
The U.S. Embassy in Iraq said it had no immediate information on the man or the authenticity of the video .
Meanwhile , eight Chinese laborers who were held hostage by militants in Iraq for five days last week are on their way home .
The group flew out of Baghdad earlier Tuesday , accompanied by several Chinese diplomats .
Insurgents said they released the men after Beijing promised to discourage its citizens from traveling to Iraq .
Two Chinese nationals have died after their van was involved in an accident with an Olympic bus on Wednesday in Beijing .
The Olympic bus was carrying two Croatian rowers , their coach , and members of the Canadian and Australian delegations .
The rowers suffered minor injuries .
Two other passengers on the van were also injured .
A spokesman for the Beijing Organizing Committee said the van was at fault in the accident .
Both vehicles were going to the site of the Olympic rowing events .
The Croatian rowers competed in their double skulls semifinal as scheduled but missed out on the finals with a fourth place finish .
Israeli troops have killed three suspected Palestinian militants in the West Bank .
Witnesses say Israeli forces entered the town of Nablus Thursday and opened fire on a building where militants were believed to be hiding .
Israel says its troops were searching for wanted militants , and shot the three men as they tried to flee .
Hours later , militants in the Gaza Strip fired a rocket into an Israeli military base , injuring five soldiers .
Israeli military officials say troops responded with artillery fire at fields used by militants to launch rockets at Israel .
Palestinian medical officials say a Palestinian man was killed in the strike .
Separately , an Israeli court Thursday sentenced an Israeli woman to three years in prison after she pleaded guilty to collaborating with Palestinian militants .
A HART , hard pressed in the chase , hid himself beneath the large leaves of a Vine .
The huntsmen , in their haste , overshot the place of his concealment .
Supposing all danger to have passed , the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine .
One of the huntsmen , attracted by the rustling of the leaves , looked back , and seeing the Hart , shot an arrow from his bow and struck it .
The Hart , at the point of death , groaned :
" I am rightly served , for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me . "
Britain 's Home Secretary Charles Clarke has expressed confidence in the way London 's police commissioner and the police force have handled the controversy over the killing of an innocent man they wrongly suspected of being a terrorist .
Mr. Clarke told British Radio he is very happy with the way Commissioner Ian Blair and the police force are handling the inquiry into the July 22 incident in which officers mistakenly shot and killed Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes .
He urged people not to pass judgment on the officers until an independent commission concludes its investigation .
Earlier , police confirmed they had reviewed their policy of using deadly force against suspected terrorists , but said they are making only minor adjustments .
Friday , a spokesman for the family of Mr. de Menezes accused Commissioner Blair of trying to stop an official probe into the shooting and again called for his resignation .
Jackson Browne has become the newest inductee in the Songwriters Hall Of Fame .
The 58-year-old singer / songwriter - who three years ago earned a slot in the Rock and Roll Hall Of Fame - joins Don Black , Michael Masser , Irving Burgie , Bobby Weinstein , and Teddy Randazzo in the Class of 2007 .
Previous inductees include Bob Dylan , Elton John , and Paul Simon .
Selected by a nominating committee , eligible songwriters need to have been active for 20 years , and to have compiled an extensive catalog of hits .
This year 's induction ceremony takes place June 7 in New York City .
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it .
The Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life , saying , " Pray , master , permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to you in recompense for your mercy to me . "
The Fowler replied , " I shall now with less scruple take your life , because you are willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and relations . "
Britain 's former Northern Ireland Secretary , Mo Mowlam , who helped secure the province 's 1998 Good Friday peace accord , has died at the age of 55 .
A family spokesman says Ms. Mowlam died Friday morning at a hospice south of London in Canterbury .
Friends say radiotherapy treatments Ms. Mowlam underwent for a brain tumor had affected her balance .
She recently fell , hit her head and never regained consciousness .
Ms. Mowlam , known for her lively and direct style , was elected to parliament in 1987 and became Northern Ireland Secretary in 1997 .
She withdrew from politics in 2001 .
Both British Prime Minister Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern paid tribute to Ms. Mowlam for her energetic efforts on behalf of peace in Northern Ireland .
The Good Friday peace accord halted decades of sectarian violence in the British province .
From the past 10 years about 90 % of Ford trucks are still on the road , the other 10 % made it home .
The Islamic Militant Group Hamas has claimed victory in Wednesday 's Palestinian legislative elections .
The claim has yet to be independently confirmed by the Palestinian electoral commission which is expected to issue official results later Thursday .
The Hamas victory claim comes from Ismail Haniyeh a senior Hamas leader in the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Haniyeh says Hamas activists who observed the vote counting say Hamas has won more than 70 seats in the 132-seat legislature .
Palestinian electoral officials have not confirmed the results , but an unnamed official from the Palestinian Authority says the results so far show Hamas winning .
Official preliminary results are expected to be released later Thursday .
Israel , the United States and the European Union say they will not deal with any Palestinian government that includes Hamas unless the group disarms and agrees to recognize Israel , something Hamas officials say they will not do .
Five Americans who were detained and deported by China earlier this week for holding a pro-Tibetan independence demonstration on the base of Mount Everest say they feared for their lives while in Chinese custody .
The five , including a Tibetan-American , arrived Friday in Nepal 's capital , Kathmandu .
The activists told reporters there Saturday they were psychologically intimidated while in custody .
Chinese authorities have not responded to the comments .
The activists were detained Wednesday after unfurling banners at Mount Everest , calling for Tibetan independence and criticizing the 2008 Beijing Olympics .
Beijing officials want to take the Olympic torch up Mount Everest , the world 's tallest mountain , which has one side in Tibet .
Chinese troops occupied Tibet in the 1950s .
Beijing continues to rule the region with a heavy hand .
A closely-watched measure of future U.S. economic activity rose in November after five months of declining readings .
The index of leading economic indicators was up two tenths of a percent ( at a reading of 115.2 ) .
The index is assembled by a business research group called the Conference Board in New York .
These experts examine factors like manufacturing , interest rates , consumer expectations , and stock prices that are thought to give hints about economic performance three to six months in the future .
Pakistani officials say armed tribesmen have killed more than 40 foreign militants in the latest fighting along Pakistan 's western border with Afghanistan .
The officials say many Uzbeks were among those killed or captured Wednesday in Pakistan 's South Waziristan region .
Local residents say more than 1,000 heavily-armed tribesmen have joined the offensive against the foreign fighters .
They say tribal elders called the men to battle Tuesday by beating traditional war drums in the main town of Wana .
Fighting between Pakistani tribesmen and foreign fighters erupted last month after militants tried to kill a pro-government tribal leader .
The tribesmen had previously given refuge to the foreign militants , many of whom fled a U.S.-led offensive in Afghanistan in 2001 .
Pakistan 's government says the new tribal offensive vindicates its strategy of relying on tribesmen to combat foreign militants , rather than the army .
The Venezuelan information ministry has dismissed criticism by the Organization of American States of proposed media legislation being debated in the Venezuelan Congress .
An information ministry spokesman Wednesday said the OAS , which said the proposal may restrict freedom of expression and political dissent , should stop meddling in Venezuela 's domestic political affairs .
The proposed law bans vulgar language , depictions of alcohol and drug consumption , gambling , sex and violence during the daylight hours .
It allows the government to shut down stations that show violence , and to impose 18-day jail sentences for broadcasting false information .
The ministry said the bill is in rigorous compliance with press freedoms guaranteed under the constitution and international treaties .
The head of Iran 's civil aviation authority says 29 people were killed and several others injured in a plane crash in the northeastern city of Mashhad .
Speaking to Iranian state television , Nourollah Rezai Niaraki rejected earlier reports that as many 80 people died in the crash Friday .
He said the plane carrying 148 passengers skidded off the runway during landing and crashed , sparking a fire .
Television reports showed fire crews dousing the plane , as smoke rose from a hole in the center of the fuselage .
The Russian-made Tupolev airliner from Iran Airtour was arriving in Mashhad from the southern city of Bandar Abbas .
The incident is the latest crash involving Iran 's aging fleet of aircraft .
A military jet went down in January , killing 11 people .
And a cargo plane crashed into a Tehran building in December , killing 115 people .
The French parliament has approved an anti-terrorism law that includes increasing the use of video surveillance .
The new law permits increased video surveillance at mosques , department stores , subways and airports .
It also extends the detention period for terrorism suspects from four to up to six days .
Civil rights groups and other critics of the measure say it will erode basic civil liberties .
France has been on high alert since July , when Islamist suicide bombers killed more than 50 people in attacks on the London transport system .
Turkish authorities said they detained a man in Istanbul last week on suspicion of plotting to kill visiting U.S. President Barack Obama .
A Turkish official said Tuesday the man was deemed mentally disturbed and released shortly after he was taken into custody .
The arrest occurred Friday , two days before Mr. Obama even arrived in Turkey .
U.S. Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan said Mr. Obama was never in any immediate danger .
He added that the president 's security team is following up with Turkish authorities about the case , as is standard practice .
The White House does not comment about threats or the president 's security .
A Saudi newspaper , al-Watan , has reported details that have not been confirmed by officials .
It said a man of Syrian origin confessed to plotting to stab Mr. Obama .
The newspaper said the man was carrying an Al-Jazeera identity card .
A former minister in Iraq 's interim government says he is in talks with two Sunni insurgent groups , who are prepared to discuss ending their armed resistance to the U.S.-backed Iraqi government .
Ayham al-Sammarei tells VOA that he has been meeting with representatives from the Islamic Army in Iraq and the Mujaheddin Army , and trying to find a way for them to enter negotiations with the government .
He drew a distinction between these insurgent groups , which he said do not kill innocent people , and organizations like Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's al-Qaeda in Iraq .
Mr. al-Sammarei says the insurgent groups willing to consider negotiations want to defend themselves and want foreign forces to leave Iraq .
The insurgency in Iraq is believed to be made up largely of the country 's Sunni Arab minority .
The U.S. Army has dropped all criminal charges against an officer in connection with the beating deaths of two detainees in Afghanistan in 2002 .
An investigating officer has cleared Captain Christopher Beiring of dereliction of duty and making false statements .
Captain Beiring commanded a reserve military police unit stationed at a U.S. detention center in Bagram where the prisoners died .
He says his unit did not receive enough training from the Army to properly handle the detainees .
The investigating officer now says Captain Beiring was " sorely challenged at every step " but did the best job he could .
Fourteen servicemen , including military interrogators , have been charged in the case .
Captain Beiring was the only officer facing charges .
Three members of his unit and some interrogators have either been convicted or pleaded guilty to abuse , assault or other charges .
Rescuers working at a flooded coal mine in central China have recovered the bodies of 39 miners following an accident more than two weeks ago .
The official Xinhua news agency said Saturday recovery teams are still searching for three miners missing and presumed dead .
The miners have been trapped underground at the Sigou Coal Mine in Henan province since December 9 , when a nearby river overflowed its banks and water rushed into the shaft .
Xinhua says 10 mine officials have been detained and will face " stern punishment " for the accident .
China 's coal mines are the world 's deadliest , with more than 5,000 deaths reported every year in fires , floods and other disasters .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is in the Middle East to urge that Israeli and Palestinian leaders work together on Israel 's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Ms. Rice arrived in Israel Thursday , following an upsurge in Israeli-Palestinian violence .
She said both sides must resist efforts by terrorists to destroy what she called the " moment of hope " brought about by the Gaza withdrawal .
Ahead of her arrival , Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel is considering speeding up its Gaza Strip withdrawal plan , to avoid further protests by opponents of the pullout .
On the Palestinian side , Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia said Palestinians will celebrate " every single meter " of land abandoned by Israel .
But Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon stressed that he plans to keep large settlement blocs in the West Bank under Israeli control .
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day .
She often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of one , and at last , to gain her purpose , determined to give the Hen a double allowance of barley .
From that day the Hen became fat and sleek , and never once laid another egg .
The NATO-led force in Afghanistan says it has killed about 200 Taleban fighters in the first two days of a major military operation in southern Afghanistan .
Canada confirms that four of its soldiers in the NATO-led force have been killed in the operation , dubbed Medusa , which started early Saturday .
Its aim is to flush out insurgents from the Panjwayi district of Kandahar province .
The NATO-led force says Afghan police captured more than 80 suspected Taleban fighters and a further 180 were seen fleeing the area .
A British reconnaissance plane that was flying in support of the operation crashed Saturday , killing all 14 British military personnel on board .
British officials say the crash was due to a technical problem , not enemy fire .
Venezuela 's vice president has defended North Korea 's nuclear missile tests , saying he sees a double standard in the West 's condemnation of the move .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel told reporters Thursday that North Korea is exercising the right of any country to conduct such tests .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , known for his criticism of Washington , had said that he may visit Pyongyang on his next Asian tour .
North Korea this week launched seven missiles , including a long-range Taepodong-2 believed to be able to reach the United States .
The tests have prompted condemnation from countries worldwide , including the U.S. , Russia , Australia , Japan , South Korea and China .
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization says climate change may hurt food production in tropical areas .
FAO Director-General Jacques Diouf told an audience in India Tuesday that crop yields will probably fall in the seasonally dry tropics as global average temperatures rise .
He said agriculture dependent on rain in semi-arid regions is particularly at risk .
He also said India might lose nearly one-fifth of its rain-fed cereal production .
Diouf said small temperature increases of one to three degrees Celsius could boost crop yields in most industrialized countries , which mostly have colder climates , but that higher temperatures would hurt food production at lower altitudes .
Diouf called for a concentrated scientific effort to help adapt crops to the likely future conditions .
As an example , he cited genetically modifying crops to be more tolerant of drought , extreme temperatures , soil acidity and salinity .
Family and friends of international aid worker Margaret Hassan held a memorial service at London 's Westminster Cathedral Saturday .
The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster , Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor , presided over the funeral mass .
Unknown militants kidnapped Mrs. Hassan , the director of the Baghdad office of Care International , in October .
A video released to the Arabic news channel Al-Jazeera in November showed the murder of a western woman , believed to be Mrs. Hassan .
Her body has never been recovered .
But family members and British officials say they believe she is dead .
Mrs. Hassan was born in Ireland , but lived in Iraq for 30 years and was married to an Iraqi .
Thailand 's military government has selected the head of the country 's Constitution Drafting Council in what is seen as a first step toward restoring democracy after last year 's military coup .
Following his election to the council Monday , political science professor Noranit Setabutr said a new draft constitution would be completed within 180 days .
He said the new constitution must be acceptable to the Thai public and bring about democracy .
Members of Thailand 's military overthrew the government of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra last September .
They accused him of exploiting the old constitution to amass more personal power than his office afforded him .
The coup leaders have promised to hold a general election under a new constitution within a year .
Mr. Thaksin is living outside the country while he is being investigated for corruption and abuse of power at home .
The World Trade Organization has authorized seven countries to levy multi-million dollar sanctions on U.S. imports .
A spokesman in Geneva Friday said the European Union , India , Japan , South Korea , Brazil , Mexico and Canada can begin imposing tariffs in 2005 .
The sanctions are in response to a U.S. law known as the Byrd Amendment that the WTO ruled illegal in August .
The law levies fines on products exported to the United States below market prices , and then , turns around and gives the money to the injured U.S. companies .
The European Union says it hopes Washington will comply with WTO guidelines soon to avoid making use of the authorized sanctions .
A U.S. official on Wednesday said the Bush Administration was working with Congress to make the law meet WTO criteria .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called on the kidnappers of a German woman taken hostage in Iraq to release her immediately .
Ms. Merkel told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper the government is doing all it can to rescue Susanne Osthoff and her Iraqi driver , who disappeared nine days ago , on November 25 .
The kidnappers said they would kill the woman if Germany does not end all support for the Iraqi government .
The magazines Der Spiegel and Focus reported that the ultimatum expired in the early hours of Friday .
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said on Saturday that Germany had not been able to establish contact with the kidnappers .
Afghan presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah says partial election results show blatant evidence of " state-engineered " vote fraud , such as polling districts in which every vote was cast for President Hamid Karzai .
Mr. Abdullah Saturday urged the international community to intervene , saying that if Afghanistan 's next leader is chosen through a fraudulent vote , it could fuel instability in the country .
Afghanistan 's election commission says it stands by the partial results it has released on its Web site .
Officials postponed the release of the next round of election results , which were due Saturday .
It is not clear if they made that decision based on a request from Mr. Abdullah .
The most recent figures , based on returns from 60 percent of the country 's polling stations show Mr. Karzai leading Mr. Abdullah with about 47 percent of the vote .
Candidates need at least 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff .
Authorities in Haiti have rescued two American children and a Haitian foster child who were kidnapped in Port-au-Prince late last week .
Police said the alleged kidnappers , dressed as policemen , snatched the children from their mother after she picked them up at school Friday .
The children were rescued the next day during a police raid on an apartment in the Delmas area of the capital city .
Authorities said they arrested seven suspects , including a former police officer .
The children 's parents , Christian missionaries from the U.S. state of Oklahoma , said while the children were missing they received a phone call asking for $ 350,000 in ransom .
The kidnappings were the latest in a string of such incidents .
Earlier this month , a U.S. grand jury indicted two Haitian men on charges of kidnapping a nine-year-old American girl in Port-au-Prince .
She was rescued after a week in captivity .
The lion dance is one of China 's most distinctive cultural arts and dates back thousands of years .
It is performed throughout the year at important occasions and is believed to bring happiness , longevity and good luck .
As Chinese people emigrated around the world , they carried their traditions with them .
VOA 's Susy Tekunan recently visited a martial arts school in Washington where the lion dance is an important part of the curriculum .
Jim Bertel narrates .
The trial in Kosovo of six ethnic Albanians suspected of war crimes has opened in the town of Gniljane , southeast of the capital Pristina .
U.N. police and NATO-led peacekeepers arrested former fighter with the Kosovo Liberation Army , Selim Krasniqi , and several of his associates last year in Prizren .
Five of the accused appeared in court and one is being tried in absentia .
The defendants face charges of murder and other crimes against fellow ethnic Albanians during the conflict in Kosovo in the late 1990s .
The proceedings got underway about a week after gunmen shot and killed a witness in the case .
At the time of his arrest , Mr. Krasniqi was a commander of the Kosovo Protection Corps , a post-war civil defense group that deals with emergencies in Kosovo .
The death toll from southern Asia 's tsunami rose to around 170,000 Monday as Sri Lanka added more than 7,000 victims to its tally .
The December 26 tsunami and underwater earthquake left 38,000 people dead on the island nation - the second highest casualty rate after Indonesia , where nearly 115,000 are confirmed dead .
Meanwhile , Indonesian and United Nations officials say they have no information regarding a possible terrorist attack on foreign aid workers in Indonesia 's devastated Aceh province .
Denmark 's Foreign Ministry Monday said " imminent " terrorist attacks were planned on relief workers in the region , but gave no details .
Muslim separatists in Indonesia 's Aceh region have been fighting for independence for more than three decades .
They agreed to a temporary ceasefire shortly after the tsunami disaster .
A U.S. Congressman is calling for a review of U.S. policy toward Cuban refugees after 15 Cubans were repatriated Monday .
Lincoln Diaz-Balart , a Republican House member from Florida , says he is asking the White House to review the United States ' " wet foot , dry foot " policy toward illegal Cuban immigrants .
The policy allows Cuban refugees who reach U.S. soil to stay in the United States , but those intercepted at sea are sent back home .
Diaz-Balart told the Miami Herald newspaper that the policy should be eliminated .
And if not that , he said , every Cuban migrant picked up at sea should at least have legal representation .
Monday , the Coast Guard repatriated 15 Cubans found standing on an old bridge piling between islands of the Florida Keys .
The government ruled the bridge , which is no longer in use , did not count as dry land .
Ethiopians vote Sunday in a second round of elections for local government positions , despite an opposition boycott and criticism from a prominent international human rights group .
The first round of voting was last Sunday .
Opposition leaders claim that most of their candidates were disqualified from running or intimidated into dropping out .
The ruling EPRDF party has denied those allegations , saying the electoral board registered every candidate who had the proper credentials .
The rights group Human Rights Watch agrees with the opposition 's view , calling the elections " a rubber stamp " for the ruling party 's domination of power .
Approximately four million seats in parliament , city councils and neighborhood councils are at stake in the elections .
Ethiopia has 26 million registered voters .
Top-ranked Roger Federer of Switzerland and second-ranked Andy Roddick of the United States will meet in the final of the Kooyong Classic exhibition tennis tournament in Melbourne .
It could be a possible preview of the Australian Open title match .
The year 's first grand slam event begins Monday , also in Melbourne .
Federer advanced in this round-robin event by beating Tim Henman of Britain , 6-4 , 6-2 , in 61 minutes on Friday .
Roddick had advanced to the final on Thursday after compatriot Andre Agassi retired from their match in the first set with an injured hip .
Agassi plans to make an unscheduled appearance against Britain 's Tim Henman following the Federer-Roddick final Saturday .
Agassi wants to test the hip to see if he 'll be fit for next week 's Australian Open , an event he 's won four times .
The Israeli government has decided to allow 8,000 Ethiopians who claim Jewish descent to enter the country .
Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , in remarks to his Cabinet Sunday , spoke of a " humanitarian crisis " and a " moral commitment " to help members of a group known as the Falash Mura .
They are Ethiopians who say they were forced to convert to Christianity .
Mr. Netanyahu said the Falash Mura will be brought to Israel in stages over the next three years .
They will then need to convert before being granted Israeli citizenship .
Some 100,000 Ethiopian Jews now live in Israel .
They came to the country during the 1980s and 1990s under the Law of Return , which provides Israeli citizenship to all Jews .
Iraqi officials say bombs in Baghdad have wounded 15 people .
Authorities say a roadside bomb in central Baghdad 's Allawi district wounded six .
Another roadside bomb wounded four people in the Iraqi capital 's western Iskan district .
Officials say a third bomb wounded three people in the southwestern Jihad district , and a fourth in western Baghdad 's Harithiya district wounded two .
The violence comes just two days after Iraqi police said masked gunmen killed 14 people during a brazen daytime robbery at jewelry stores in the capital .
The U.S. government says oil production in the Gulf of Mexico was nearly 80 percent below normal as of Saturday , five days after Hurricane Katrina tore through the region .
A report from the U.S. Minerals Management Service said Katrina had cut oil production in the Gulf by about 1.18 million barrels of oil per day .
It said more than 280 offshore oil-drilling rigs and platforms remained evacuated .
The figures represent a slight improvement from Friday , when oil production in the Gulf was nearly 90 percent below normal .
Katrina 's disruption to Gulf-area oil production and refineries has caused a spike in U.S. gasoline prices , and an increase in crude oil prices on world markets .
A new survey says companies in Russia and China are among the most likely to pay bribes to win business opportunities abroad .
The report was released Tuesday by a Berlin-based anti-corruption organization , Transparency International .
It ranks 22 of the most influential economies based on interviews with business executives from around the world .
Russian firms were rated most likely to engage in bribery , followed by Mexico , China and India .
Companies in Belgium and Canada were least likely to offer bribes .
The United States was ranked near the middle of the list - tied with Singapore and France .
The survey says companies looking for public works construction projects are most likely to try to gain influence with public officials .
Real estate and oil and gas companies are the next most serious offenders .
Transparency International says it hopes the list encourages governments and companies to increase anti-corruption measures .
Jubilant Palestinians and militant factions celebrating the Israeli pullout from the Gaza Strip are gathering in an abandoned Jewish settlement for a mass rally .
Palestinian factions were expected , at least temporarily , to set aside their internal rivalries and join in a unified show of support at Neve Dekalim for the Palestinian Authority and its president , Mahmoud Abbas .
However , leaders of three main militant factions -- Hamas , Islamic Jihad and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine -- warned Wednesday they will not submit to government plans to disarm their groups .
In other developments , the Palestinian Authority says it will close its side of the Gaza-Egyptian border this evening , to stop surging crowds of Palestinians from crossing into Egypt .
Egypt says it will seal its side as well , after clearing Gaza revelers from Egyptian territory .
U.S. Marines in Iraq say two leaders of a militant group linked to wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi have been arrested .
The U.S. military , which announced the arrests Saturday , said Marines had captured the two cell leaders during raids in the city of Ramadi earlier this month .
The two men are accused of executing 11 Iraqi National Guardsmen , as well as planting bombs and smuggling foreign militants into Iraq .
The arrests came as rescue workers in Baghdad uncovered seven more bodies from the rubble of a Christmas Eve suicide bombing in the city 's upscale Mansour district .
The attack left nine dead .
Meanwhile , police in Najaf say at least three civilians were killed in a car bomb attack .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , has marked the 20th anniversary of the Challengerspace shuttle tragedy that killed seven astronauts .
The ceremony was held Saturday at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral , Florida , where the Challenger was launched January 28 , 1986 .
The widow of the shuttle 's commander joined a top NASA official in laying a wreath at a memorial that bears the names of the seven astronauts and other fallen space explorers .
The Challenger exploded 73 seconds after taking off under clear blue skies in near freezing temperatures .
Those on board included Christa McAuliffe , who was to be the first school teacher in space .
The explosion , which was seen on live television and before an audience that included school children , was blamed on a failure of a seal in the shuttle 's solid rocket booster due to the cold weather .
New Caledonia has about 25 % of the world 's known nickel resources .
Only a small amount of the land is suitable for cultivation , and food accounts for about 20 % of imports .
In addition to nickel , substantial financial support from France - equal to more than 15 % of GDP - and tourism are keys to the health of the economy .
Substantial new investment in the nickel industry , combined with the recovery of global nickel prices , brightens the economic outlook for the next several years .
Diamonds , and the women who wear them , have inspired generations of jewelers and fashion houses .
And that is the theme of a new exhibition called Diamond Divas at the Antwerp World Diamond Center in Belgium .
Some 80 percent of the world 's rough diamonds are bought and sold in Antwerp .
The exhibition pulls together 76 pieces of diamond jewelry worn by the rich and famous , royalty and Hollywood stars .
Nina-Maria Potts reports .
Police in Lebanon have arrested a man under investigation by a U.N. commission probing the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Officials in Beirut say Mahmoud Abdel-Al , a member of the pro-Syrian Al-Ahbash Sunni Muslim Orthodox group , was detained early Saturday based on an arrest warrant issued by Lebanese prosecutors .
A U.N. investigative report issued earlier this week said the man telephoned pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud minutes before Mr. Hariri was killed .
A spokesman for Mr. Lahoud has strongly denied the president had been in contact with Mr. Abdel-Al .
Meanwhile , the son of Mr. Hariri , Saad Hariri , called for an international tribunal to punish those responsible for his father 's assassination .
In Damascus , Syrian officials dismissed the credibility of the U.N. report , which named senior Syrian security officials and their Lebanese allies as suspects in Mr. Hariri 's death .
British scientists say an underground volcano that erupted more than 2,000 years ago may be partly responsible for Antarctica 's receding ice sheet .
The scientists , writing Sunday in the journal Nature Geoscience , say the hidden volcano is still active , and its persistent heat may be contributing to a nearby glacier 's rapid melting .
The British team says the volcano erupted about 23 centuries ago , roughly in the year 325 B.C. , blowing a hole through hundreds of meters of ice and spewing a 12-kilometer-high plume of ash and steam .
Radar images of volcanic debris trapped beneath the Antarctic ice sheet helped the scientists locate the volcano in Antarctica 's Hudson Mountains and date the eruption .
Despite their discoveries , the British Antarctic experts say global warming and rising sea temperatures are still the biggest cause of the southern continent 's accelerating ice melt .
The Indus Valley civilization , one of the oldest in the world and dating back at least 5,000 years , spread over much of what is presently Pakistan .
During the second millennium B.C. , remnants of this culture fused with the migrating Indo-Aryan peoples .
The area underwent successive invasions in subsequent centuries from the Persians , Greeks , Scythians , Arabs ( who brought Islam ) , Afghans , and Turks .
The Mughal Empire flourished in the 16th and 17th centuries ; the British came to dominate the region in the 18th century .
The separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim state of Pakistan ( with West and East sections ) and largely Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved , and India and Pakistan fought two wars - in 1947 - 48 and 1965 - over the disputed Kashmir territory .
A third war between these countries in 1971 - in which India capitalized on Islamabad 's marginalization of Bengalis in Pakistani politics - resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh .
In response to Indian nuclear weapons testing , Pakistan conducted its own tests in 1998 .
India-Pakistan relations have been rocky since the November 2008 Mumbai attacks , but both countries are taking small steps to put relations back on track .
In February 2008 , Pakistan held parliamentary elections and in September 2008 , after the resignation of former President MUSHARRAF , elected Asif Ali ZARDARI to the presidency .
Pakistani government and military leaders are struggling to control domestic insurgents , many of whom are located in the tribal areas adjacent to the border with Afghanistan .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he believes Iran is cooperating sufficiently with the United Nations nuclear agency and U.N. sanctions will cause new problems .
Mr. Putin 's remarks were broadcast Sunday on American television , but the interview was conducted Friday .
The Russian leader said Iran 's president told him he wanted continued negotiations with Britain , France and Germany .
The three European countries , backed by the United States , have been trying to convince Iran to suspend its nuclear fuel enrichment program .
Russia is helping Iran build a new nuclear energy plant .
Authorities in France say they have arrested 13 Turkish Kurds on suspicion of helping to finance terrorism .
Police say the Kurds are suspected of involvement in a money laundering network that funds the militant Kurdistan Workers Party , also known by the initials PKK .
Turkey , the United States and the European Union classify the PKK as a terrorist organization .
Police say Monday 's arrests in the suburbs of the capital are part of an investigation that began last July when two Kurds were arrested in Paris trying to exchange 200,000 euros ( about $ 260,000 ) in cash into other currencies .
The PKK has been fighting Turkey for autonomy since 1984 .
More than 37,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
Monday 's arrests took place in the Paris suburbs of Yvelines , Hauts-de-Seine , Seine-Saint-Denis , and the Val d' Oise .
At least 27 wives of Israeli rabbis have signed a letter urging Jewish women to avoid dating Arab men , after dozens of rabbis signed a religious ruling that forbids renting homes to non-Jews .
The letter warns Jewish women that they will suffer if they date Arab men .
It also warns against working in places where Arabs are employed .
It was distributed Tuesday by the Jewish group , Lehava .
Earlier this month , dozens of Israeli rabbis signed the letter forbidding home rentals .
In their appeal , the clerics said " different lifestyles from Jews " could endanger lives .
The letter fueled charges of racism and was condemned by some lawmakers and human rights activists .
The letters could raise tensions between Israel 's Jews and its Arab minority at a time when international efforts are underway to revive direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians .
Pakistani police say a car bomb exploded in a parking lot of a bank in the northwestern city of Peshawar Saturday , wounding 12 people .
Authorities say the blast broke windows in the military-owned Askari bank and damaged several nearby businesses and vehicles .
Pakistan is a key ally of the United States in its campaign against terror .
In recent years , Peshawar and many other parts of the Islamic nation have been hit by scores of bomb attacks , most blamed on outlawed militant groups .
Bombings have also been frequent since an army operation in July that evicted militants from the radical Red Mosque in Islamabad .
Tamil Tiger rebels in Sri Lanka say they have halted an offensive on a government-held town in the eastern part of the country , and are pulling back to their former positions .
The fighting , in the eastern Muslim town of Muttur in Trincomalee province , was described as the worst since a cease-fire was agreed to more than four years ago .
Thousands of civilians fled clashes between soldiers and the rebels .
At least five people were killed by artillery fire as they tried to find a safe haven .
Norwegian peace envoy Jon Hanssen-Bauer met with Nordic cease-fire monitors Friday ahead of a meeting with government leaders .
He plans to travel north to meet rebel leaders soon .
High-powered U.S. lobbyist Jack Abramoff has pleaded guilty to fraud and tax evasion charges , clearing the way for him to cooperate with a federal corruption probe that could implicate several top members of Congress .
Abramoff is implicated in two separate investigations .
He is accused of defrauding two lenders in Florida in a deal to buy a cruise line , and he is being investigated in Washington for offering trips and other gifts to lawmakers , including former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay .
As part of his plea-bargain , he is expected to cooperate with federal investigators , meaning he could provide names of U.S. congressmen with whom he had illegal dealings .
The Associated Press reports the federal probe is focusing on as many as 20 lawmakers and aides .
A number of lawmakers have tried to cut ties with Abramoff in recent weeks by returning his campaign contributions .
China says archaeologists have unearthed a 1,700-year-old complex of tombs in eastern China 's Zheijiang Province .
China 's official Xinhua news agency says the tombs were first discovered by a forklift operator at a construction site near the port city of Ningbo .
The report says inscriptions in the tombs indicate they were built in 256-AD , and are the best-preserved ancient tombs ever discovered in the region .
Xinhua says there are figures of fish , beasts , dragons and phoenixes are etched in the walls .
Other objects discovered at the site include porcelain vessels , copper money and bronze mirrors .
Authorities say gunmen have abducted a British oil worker from a drilling rig off the coast of Nigeria .
A spokesman for the U.S.-based operator , Transocean , said the attackers Saturday boarded the " Trident Eight " rig and seized one of the workers .
The spokesman said the other 23 people on the rig were left unharmed .
Such kidnappings are common in the region , where criminal gangs are active , and where militants have demanded that the government give more of the region 's oil wealth to impoverished locals .
Nearly 200 foreign workers have been abducted over the past year in the region .
Most have been released unharmed , often after a ransom was paid .
The attacks have forced the shutdown of oil facilities , crippling Nigeria 's oil industry .
Avril Lavigne and her husband have bought a home in the upscale Los Angeles neighborhood of Bel-Air .
The Los Angeles Times reports the 22-year-old pop-rock singer and her husband , Derek Whibley of the Canadian rock band Sum-41 , paid about $ 9.5 million for their new home .
Boasting eight bedrooms and 10 and one-half bathrooms , the three-story house also has an elevator , sauna , and garage space for 10 cars .
Avril Lavigne , whose worldwide record sales top 26 million , was last year ranked the seventh most powerful Canadian in Hollywood by Canadian Business Magazine .
Her third album , The Best Damn Thing , appears April 17 in the United States .
President Bush will meet Monday with the Iraq Study Group , a bipartisan panel named by congress to make recommendations about U.S. policy in Iraq .
The Iraq Study Group is co-chaired by former secretary of state James Baker and former Democratic congressman Lee Hamilton .
A White House spokesman said the group is not yet ready to present its final report to the president .
The meeting follows statements from senior Democrats , whose party won control of Congress last week , who said their priority will be a change of course in Iraq .
Senator Carl Levin called Sunday in a broadcast interview for a phased withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq , and party chairman Howard Dean said Americans have made it clear they do not want the U.S. to stay in Iraq forever .
But Mr. Dean acknowledged his party will need to work with the president on Iraq .
American actors Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are donating $ 2 million to a wildlife sanctuary in Namibia , where they spent Christmas with their children .
The donation to the Naankuse Lodge and Wildlife Sanctuary was made through the couple 's Jolie-Pitt foundation in the name of their daughter , Shiloh , who was born in Namibia .
In a statement , Jolie said the couple wants their daughter to be " very involved " and to grow up with an understanding of the country of her birth .
Jolie said the owners of the sanctuary are old friends , who have impressed her with their " hard work and dedication " to the conservation of Namibia 's land and wildlife .
Jolie and Pitt spent the Christmas holiday with their six children at the lodge , which looks after injured animals , including baboons and leopards .
Senegal relies heavily on donor assistance .
The country 's key export industries are phosphate mining , fertilizer production , and commercial fishing .
The country is also working on iron ore and oil exploration projects .
In January 1994 , Senegal undertook a bold and ambitious economic reform program with the support of the international donor community .
Government price controls and subsidies have been steadily dismantled .
After seeing its economy contract by 2.1 % in 1993 , Senegal made an important turnaround , thanks to the reform program , with real growth in GDP averaging over 5 % annually during 1995 - 2007 .
Annual inflation had been pushed down to the single digits .
The country was adversely affected by the global economic downturn in 2009 and GDP growth fell below 2 % .
As a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union ( WAEMU ) , Senegal is working toward greater regional integration with a unified external tariff and a more stable monetary policy .
High unemployment , however , continues to prompt illegal migrants to flee Senegal in search of better job opportunities in Europe .
Under the IMF 's Highly Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) debt relief program , Senegal benefited from eradication of two-thirds of its bilateral , multilateral , and private-sector debt .
In 2007 , Senegal and the IMF agreed to a new , non-disbursing , Policy Support Initiative program which was completed in 2010 .
Senegal received its first disbursement from the $ 540 million Millennium Challenge Account compact it signed in September 2009 for infrastructure and agriculture development .
In 2010 , the Senegalese people protested against frequent power cuts .
The government pledged to expand capacity by 2012 and to promote renewable energy but until Senegal has more capacity , more protests are likely and economic activity will be hindered .
During the year , bakers protested government price controls on bread .
Foreign investment in Senegal is constrained by Senegal 's business environment , which has slipped in recent years , and by perceptions of corruption .
Prior to the global economic crisis , Costa Rica enjoyed stable economic growth .
The economy contracted 0.7 % in 2009 , but resumed growth at more than 3 % in 2010 .
While the traditional agricultural exports of bananas , coffee , sugar , and beef are still the backbone of commodity export trade , a variety of industrial and specialized agricultural products have broadened export trade in recent years .
High value added goods and services , including microchips , have further bolstered exports .
Tourism continues to bring in foreign exchange , as Costa Rica 's impressive biodiversity makes it a key destination for ecotourism .
Foreign investors remain attracted by the country 's political stability and relatively high education levels , as well as the fiscal incentives offered in the free-trade zones ; and Costa Rica has attracted one of the highest levels of foreign direct investment per capita in Latin America .
However , many business impediments , such as high levels of bureaucracy , difficulty of enforcing contracts , and weak investor protection , remain .
Poverty has remained around 15-20 % for nearly 20 years , and the strong social safety net that had been put into place by the government has eroded due to increased financial constraints on government expenditures .
Unlike the rest of Central America , Costa Rica is not highly dependent on remittances as they only represent about 2 % of GDP .
Immigration from Nicaragua has increasingly become a concern for the government .
The estimated 300,000 - 500,000 Nicaraguans in Costa Rica legally and illegally are an important source of - mostly unskilled - labor , but also place heavy demands on the social welfare system .
The US-Central American-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement ( CAFTA-DR ) entered into force on 1 January 2009 , after significant delays within the Costa Rican legislature .
CAFTA-DR will likely lead to increased foreign direct investment in key sectors of the economy , including the insurance and telecommunications sectors recently opened to private investors .
President CHINCHILLA is likely to push for fiscal reform in the coming year , seeking to boost revenue , possibly through revised tax legislation , to fund an increase in security services and education .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has rejected a European Union request that his country move towards recognizing Cyprus before next week 's EU summit .
Turkish officials announced the development in Brussels following talks Friday between the Prime Minister and EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso .
The two leaders spoke one week before a scheduled EU summit , at which European leaders are expected to approve membership negotiations with Turkey and to set a date for the talks .
EU officials say that Turkey should recognize Cyprus , an EU member state .
Ankara currently has diplomatic ties only with the Turkish-dominated part of the divided island .
Also , Friday , Turkey again expressed concern at reports that the European Union wants to toughen entry requirements for Ankara , in the face of resistance of some states to Turkish EU membership .
Japan and the United States have signed an agreement to encourage cooperation on developing a missile defense system .
Japanese Defense Minister Yoshinori Ono signed a memorandum of understanding Friday in Tokyo with U.S. Ambassador to Japan Howard Baker .
Under the agreement , Japan and the United States will exchange information on research , deployment and operations of a missile shield .
The agreement comes one week after Japan adopted new defense policy guidelines that would allow the joint development of a missile defense system with the United States .
The five-year defense outline allows the sale of missile defense components to the United States for production of a missile shield .
Japan says other arms export cases will be considered on a case-by-case basis .
Chinese officials say a chemical factory has illegally discharged waste water into a river in southern China , affecting the drinking supply of about 40,000 people .
The official Xinhua news agency says an eight kilometer stretch of the Sancha River in Guangdong province has been tainted by the chemical discharge .
It did not specify the type of chemical , but said large quantities of dead fish and poisoned livestock have been reported .
Xinhua said the local government has ordered waterworks companies and residents to avoid using the river for its water supply , particularly in the town of Changqi .
The name of the chemical company responsible for the spill was not available .
Radical Iraqi Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr says his recent call for " open war " is only against U.S. forces , not the Iraqi government .
In a statement Friday , Sadr urged his Mahdi Army militia to stop the bloodshed against fellow Iraqis .
Militias loyal to Sadr have been battling coalition and Iraqi forces in Baghdad 's Sadr City district since late March .
More than 300 people have been killed in those clashes .
Meanwhile , the U.N. secretary-general 's special representative for children and armed conflict concluded a five-day visit to Iraq Friday .
She told reporters the trip convinced her that Iraq 's children are silent victims of the ongoing violence .
Radhika Coomaraswamy also noted that Iraqi children are being recruited as suicide bombers by various militias and insurgent groups in Iraq .
Earlier Friday , the U.S. military said it detained more than 12 suspected terrorists , during operations targeting al-Qaida in Iraq forces .
An Arabic-language television channel has broadcast a video of Pakistan 's ambassador to Afghanistan , in which he says he has been kidnapped by Taliban militants .
The video of Tariq Azizuddin aired Saturday on Al-Arabiya television .
Azizuddin was surrounded by armed gunmen as he made his first public comments since disappearing in February .
He said he and his driver and bodyguard are being held in comfortable conditions , although he said he suffers from high blood pressure and heart pain .
He said the three were kidnapped while driving through Pakistan 's Khyber tribal district on the way to the Afghan capital , Kabul .
Azizuddin urged the Pakistani government and Pakistan 's envoys in China and Iran to comply with the demands of his captors .
The ambassador did not say what those demands were .
President Bush is to discuss the situation in Iraq Wednesday , during a speech to National Guard troops in the western state of Idaho .
Mr. Bush is expected to talk about efforts to combat the insurgency , and progress being made on the drafting of a new Iraqi constitution .
He will also meet with relatives of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan .
On Tuesday , Mr. Bush again rejected calls for the immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq , and said that doing so is " advocating a policy that would weaken the United States . "
He made the comment in response to a reporter 's question about Cindy Sheehan , the woman who lost a son in Iraq and led a protest near the president 's Texas ranch demanding to see him .
A new public opinions poll finds Japanese are strongly opposed to extending their country 's humanitarian mission to Iraq .
The poll published by the Mainichi newspaper Monday showed three out of four Japanese ( 77 percent ) are against the extension while only 18 percent support it .
The survey also found that Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's approval rating has climbed to 56 percent , a gain of five points , since shortly before general elections last month .
The gain came despite recent reports that the prime minister intends to extend Japan 's Iraqi mission .
The Mongols gained fame in the 13th century when under Chinggis KHAAN they established a huge Eurasian empire through conquest .
After his death the empire was divided into several powerful Mongol states , but these broke apart in the 14th century .
The Mongols eventually retired to their original steppe homelands and in the late 17th century came under Chinese rule .
Mongolia won its independence in 1921 with Soviet backing and a Communist regime was installed in 1924 .
The modern country of Mongolia , however , represents only part of the Mongols ' historical homeland ; more ethnic Mongolians live in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in the People 's Republic of China than in Mongolia .
Following a peaceful democratic revolution , the ex-Communist Mongolian People 's Revolutionary Party ( MPRP ) won elections in 1990 and 1992 , but was defeated by the Democratic Union Coalition ( DUC ) in the 1996 parliamentary election .
The MPRP won an overwhelming majority in the 2000 parliamentary election , but the party lost seats in the 2004 election and shared power with democratic coalition parties from 2004 - 08 .
The MPRP regained a solid majority in the 2008 parliamentary elections but nevertheless formed a coalition government with the Democratic Party .
In 2010 the MPRP voted to retake the name of the Mongolian People 's Party ( MPP ) , a name it used in the early 1920s .
The prime minister and most cabinet members are MPP members .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder Monday repeated his call to end the European Union 's ban on arms sales to China .
As Mr. Schroeder visited Beijing , Chinese officials signed agreements to buy $ 1.3 billion worth of Airbus jetliners and hundreds of millions of dollars worth of other German-made goods , including locomotives .
Mr. Schroeder met Monday with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
The German chancellor opposes the European Union 's ban on weapons sales to China , imposed after the bloody 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing .
His stand has been criticized by opponents in Germany , and the European Parliament renewed the sanctions last month .
Mr. Schroeder travels to Tokyo Wednesday for talks with top Japanese officials .
Lebanon 's government has banned public demonstrations on the eve of an opposition rally building on the public outcry over the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Opposition leaders say they will ignore the ban and hold a peaceful sit-in Monday .
The opposition called the protest and a one-day strike to coincide with a special session of parliament that is to consider a no-confidence motion against the Beirut government .
Lebanon 's opposition blames the government and its backer Syria for the car bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and 14 others two weeks ago .
Both Damascus and Beirut have denied involvement .
Meanwhile , top U.S. envoy David Satterfield is in Beirut to press U.S. demands that Syria withdraw all of its estimated 14,000 troops in Lebanon .
U.S. prosecutors have convicted five leaders of a now-defunct Muslim charity of channeling some $ 12 million to the Palestinian militant group Hamas .
A federal court in the southwestern city of Dallas , Texas Monday found the men guilty of 108 separate charges .
They were former leaders of the Holy Land Foundation , which organizers said collected money for poverty-stricken Palestinians affected by the conflict with Israel .
The group was the largest Muslim-run charity in the United States before it was shut down by the U.S. government in the wake of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
This was the second attempt at a trial .
The first ended in October 2007 after the judge declared a mistrial .
The defendants in the case denied sending money to Hamas and said the charges were politically motivated .
The United States declared Hamas a terrorist organization in 1995 , making contributions to it illegal .
Iraq 's parliament has extended a state of emergency in the country for a month , giving security forces greater powers to subdue violence .
Parliament approved the extension Tuesday while meeting for the first time after a recess lasting several months .
The vote came as Iraq 's president said Iraqi forces will be ready to take over the country 's security by the end of next year and predicted that British troops will be able to leave Iraq at that time .
Jalal Talabani spoke after meeting in Baghdad Tuesday with British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett .
And the U.S. military said three U.S. service members were killed Monday in Iraq 's troubled western province of Al Anbar .
Their deaths bring to at least 10 the number of coalition troops killed in recent days .
I was signing the receipt for my credit card purchase when the clerk noticed I had never signed my name on the back of the credit card .
She informed me that she could not complete the transaction unless the card was signed .
When I asked why , she explained that it was necessary to compare the signature I had just signed on the receipt .
So I signed the credit card in front of her .
She carefully compared the signature to the one I had just signed on the receipt .
As luck would have it , they matched .
The leader of the Church of England says the British Broadcasting Corporation should air an appeal for humanitarian aid for civilians in the Gaza Strip .
The Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , Sunday made his comments as more than 50 British lawmakers announced a petition urging the BBC to run the appeal .
The UK 's national broadcaster says it rejected the appeal because it did not want to harm its image as an impartial news source .
The BBC also questioned whether the aid will reach those who need it .
The organization seeking to advertise its appeal , the Disasters Emergency Committee , is a grouping of 13 aid agencies that aid people in crisis .
The group says it is not political , and that it is seeking funds to help innocent people affected by the conflict in Gaza .
The National Basketball Association is considering a league-wide standard for physical exams following the death of Atlanta Hawks center Jason Collier .
The 28-year-old Collier died on Saturday after he had difficulty breathing at home .
His agent , Richard Howell said Collier may have had an enlarged heart .
Individual team doctors from each of the NBA 's 30 franchises currently conduct physical exams for their players before training camp .
Some teams use echocardiograms to detect heart problems .
But the test is not mandatory .
A number of NBA players have had heart-related problems .
New York Knicks forward Eddy Curry missed the final 13 games of last season and the playoffs with an irregular heartbeat .
Minnesota guard Fred Hoiberg will miss this season after open heart surgery in June .
Israel says it will not hand over control of any more West Bank towns to Palestinian security forces , because it says the Palestinian Authority is not disarming militants .
Wednesday 's decision by the Israeli security cabinet comes despite a recent Israeli truce pledge to transfer control of five West Bank towns to Palestinian police .
In return for that pledge , the Palestinians agreed at a February peace summit to end attacks on Israeli targets .
Since then , Israel has transferred control of Jericho and Tulkarem .
Talks were under way to complete the handover of three more towns when Israeli radio reported today 's cabinet decision .
Earlier , the Palestinian Authority said again it does not intend to disarm militants in the occupied territories .
But Palestinian security chief Rashid Abu Shbak said militants must still honor their February pledge to abide by the ongoing ceasefire .
South Korea 's foreign ministry says a South Korean fishing boat has been seized by pirates off the coast of Somalia .
The ministry says eight armed assailants in two motor boats captured the vessel Tuesday .
All 25 crew members have been taken hostage .
Eight South Koreans , nine Indonesians , five Vietnamese and three Chinese were on board .
They have been confirmed safe .
The ministry says Dutch and U.S. naval vessels tried to intervene , but gave up after the ship entered Somali waters .
The ship was taken to a port in northeastern Somalia .
South Korea has set up a special task force to respond to the incident .
The International Maritime Bureau says the number of piracy incidents off Somalia jumped to 35 last year , up from just two in 2004 .
A statement from the U.S. National Hurricane Center says reconnaissance aircraft tracking the storm reported one of the lowest pressure measurements ever recorded .
Lower pressure is one indicator of a more intense hurricane .
Forecasters say Wilma is 270 kilometers south of Grand Cayman and continues moving northwest at about 13 kilometers per hour .
Hurricane watches and a tropical storm warnings remain in effect for the Cayman islands and points west .
Officials say early projections show Wilma is likely to enter the Gulf of Mexico between the Yucatan Peninsula and Cuba before heading towards the southwestern Florida coast later this week .
France has placed its former ambassador to the United Nations under investigation for alleged involvement in the Iraqi oil-for-food program scandal .
Jean-Bernard Merimee appeared in a Paris court Wednesday to hear accusations of corruption .
He was freed on bail .
French judicial officials say Mr. Merimee is suspected of receiving illegal payments from oil sales by former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein 's regime .
He is one of 10 French officials and business leaders suspected of corruption in the program that allowed Iraq to sell a limited amount of oil to buy food and medicine .
U.N. sanctions barred Iraq from regular oil sales .
Mr. Merimee was French Ambassador to the U.N. from 1991 until 1995 and was later an advisor to Secretary General Kofi Annan .
Thai officials say the country plans to install the first tsunami warning system in the Indian Ocean this month , nearly two years after a series of massive waves killed some 250,000 people around the region .
Thailand 's National Disaster Warning Center and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are to install the first offshore devices on November 28 .
A network of sensors and buoys called the Deep Sea Tsunami Detection Equipment-2 will be installed about 1,100 kilometers off Thailand 's Andaman coast near the Nicobar Islands .
The head of Thailand 's disaster center , Smith Thammararoj , said Thursday that the system could save billions of lives .
About 5,300 people died in Thailand when the tsunami struck in December 2004 .
Eleven countries were affected by the killer waves .
U.S. housing construction plunged to the second-lowest level on record in March , possible evidence that the troubled housing sector has not yet hit bottom .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department says construction of new homes fell 10.8 percent last month .
If building continued at that pace for a whole year , only 510,000 homes would go up across the nation .
A Labor Department report says the number of Americans getting long-term unemployment aid hit yet another record-high , just above six million last week .
But the job market 's problems may be easing , as the number of people signing up for first time jobless aid declined by 53,000 to a total of 610,000 .
Pakistani police say Taliban militants have killed two Afghan nationals for allegedly acting as spies for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
Police say they found the bullet-ridden bodies of two brothers Sunday in a village located in Pakistan 's lawless tribal region of North Waziristan .
Police say a note found with the bodies said the two men were spies from the neighboring Afghan province of Khost .
U.S.-led forces toppled the hard-line Taliban regime in Afghanistan in 2001 .
Many militants fled to Pakistan after the attack and continue to stage attacks across the border .
The U.S. has responded to the Taliban 's threats with occasional missile strikes in Pakistan 's tribal areas , which has prompted outcries from Pakistani citizens .
Nepalese police detained 41 Tibetans Sunday for illegal entry into the country .
The group was detained at the Thankot police checkpoint outside Kathmandu , after traveling from Bhairahawa , about 280 kilometers southwest of the capital .
A government official said all of them were handed over to the immigration department in Kathmandu Sunday afternoon .
More than 2,500 Tibetan refugees enter Nepal illegally annually in an attempt to reach India , where the Dalai Lama 's government in exile is based .
The Court of Arbitration for Sport has upheld the two-year doping ban given to German cyclist Danilo Hondo , after he twice tested positive for a stimulant ( carphedon ) at the Tour of Murcia in Spain last March .
Hondo appealed the ban which was handed down last June by the Swiss Olympic Association .
But the Lausanne-based arbitration court rejected Hondo 's appeal to have the ban annulled , saying the lab results clearly established the presence of the stimulant in the German cyclist 's urine .
The Court ruled that the usual two-year suspension provided for the International Cycling Union and World Anti-Doping Code should be imposed .
The 31-year-old Hondo was fired by the Swiss team Gerolsteiner last year , but has denied knowingly taking the stimulant .
Indonesia 's Mount Merapi erupted with renewed force Wednesday , prompting evacuations of residents from emergency shelters to locations even further from the volcano .
Indonesian government volcanologist Surano said Wednesday 's eruption was three times more powerful than Merapi 's first blast on October 26 .
The volcano sent hot ash and rocks five kilometers into the sky , forcing authorities to widen the evacuation zone around the mountain from 10 kilometers to 15 kilometers .
The new eruption happened as Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono visited emergency shelters housing 70,000 evacuees from earlier eruptions .
Surano said shelters within the expanded danger zone will be moved further away .
It may be weeks before the evacuees can return to their homes .
Mount Merapi 's eruptions have killed at least 38 people , most from burns and suffocation .
There was no immediate word of any casualties from Wednesday 's blast .
Officials have warned opposition activists not to hold demonstrations
Pope Benedict says he is upset that a speech he gave this week offended Muslims .
The pope said Saturday he is very sorry that his comments were interpreted as offensive to Islam .
Benedict has received widespread criticism from Muslim leaders for his remarks Tuesday linking Islam with violence .
In a speech to academics in Germany , Benedict quoted a 14th century Byzantine emperor as saying the Prophet Muhammad brought " only evil and inhuman things , " such as holy war .
Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said today the pope should not " take lightly " the spread of outrage that has been created .
An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman says the pope 's comments were a " great mistake . "
Muslim leaders elsewhere , including Pakistan , Iraq and Turkey , have also denounced the pope 's comments .
The Vatican says Pope Benedict respects Islam and did not intend to offend anyone .
Colombia 's government has agreed to temporarily release a jailed Marxist rebel leader in an effort to spur peace talks aimed at ending four decades of violence .
Officials said Wednesday that Francisco Galan , of the National Liberation Army would be freed for three months to allow him to negotiate with civil society leaders about launching talks with the government .
Earlier , officials blamed rebels from a larger Marxist group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia for bombing electrical towers in the southwest .
A similar attack Monday cut power to two million people in the area .
Meanwhile , the nation 's Supreme Court has approved the extradition request for paramilitary leader Diego Murillo to face drug charges in the United States .
The request now goes to President Alvaro Uribe for his approval or rejection .
Major League Baseball 's 30 teams and its players ' association have announced that they will donate $ 1 million to help victims of last month 's Indian Ocean tsunami .
Commissioner Bud Selig said the horrific tsunami that devastated South Asia took an enormous toll that he called " incomprehensible " to those who watched the devastation on television .
Players ' union head Donald Fehr said his organization hopes the contribution will help those trying to rebuild their lives .
In addition the New York Yankees team , which has the highest payroll in baseball , will donate $ 1 million from the proceeds of its season opener against the World Series Champion Boston Red Sox April 3 .
Russia 's space agency says it has set a new date for launching a European probe to explore Venus after technical problems postponed the liftoff earlier this month .
Officials said Monday the Soyuz rocket carrying the Venus Express satellite will blast off Wednesday , November 9 from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan .
The October 26 launch was canceled due to problems with a booster rocket on the Soyuz spacecraft .
The European Space Agency 's Venus Express probe will study the planet 's atmosphere for more than a year .
The flight to Earth 's nearest neighbor is expected to take five months .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud is holding talks with parliamentary deputies to form a new government , following last week 's resignation of Prime Minister Omar Karameh 's cabinet in the face of growing anti-Syria protests .
Mr. Lahoud began consultations Wednesday , while Syrian troops continued to redeploy in eastern Lebanon , in the first stage of a withdrawal from the country .
On Tuesday , Lebanon 's ambassador to the United States , Imad Moustapha , said the troop pullout would be complete long before May , when Lebanon holds its parliamentary elections .
President Bush has demanded that Syria get all of its troops and intelligence personnel out of Lebanon before the vote .
Also on Tuesday , hundreds of thousands of demonstrators packed the streets of Beirut to show support for Syria .
The protest , called by the Syrian-backed Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah , dwarfed recent anti-Syrian demonstrations .
Witnesses in the Gaza Strip say gunmen have fired on the vehicle carrying the director of the United Nations refugee mission in Gaza .
The sources say 11 bullets hit the armored car of John Ging , the Gaza director of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency .
No one was hurt in the attack .
The Associated Press quotes Ging as saying the gunmen tried to force open the car , and that the attackers continued firing as his driver sped away .
He is quoted as describing the incident as a " shocking development . "
On Monday in Gaza , Palestinian gunmen abducted BBC reporter Alan Johnston .
He has not been heard from since .
There has been a series of kidnappings of foreigners in the Gaza Strip over the past year , with most of the hostages released within hours .
China says a wild goose found in northwestern Qinghai province has tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The Agriculture Ministry announced Monday that tests on Saturday confirmed the goose died of avian influenza .
Officials say Qinghai agricultural authorities have sterilized the area where the dead bird was found .
The bird flu virus killed more than one thousand geese in Qinghai province last year .
The region is located along a major Asian migratory route for birds .
Researchers believe wild birds from the region may have carried bird flu along migratory paths to Europe .
Iran has accused the British military of equipping and helping the bombers who killed eight people in southern Iran Tuesday .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says he has information showing the bombers interacted with British soldiers based in Iraq .
Britain denies the charges and any involvement in the twin bombings in Ahvaz .
Last year , at least 12 people were killed in Ahvaz in a series of bombings that Iran blamed on Iranian Arab extremists with ties to foreign governments .
In October , an editorial in Iran 's Kayhan International newspaper alleged that British agents were involved in the bombings .
Britain also denied involvement in those attacks .
It has accused Tehran of backing insurgents fighting British forces in southeastern Iraq .
Home sales in the United States dropped between April and March , evidence that the housing market 's problems are not over .
Friday 's report from a business group , The National Association of Realtors , says sales of previously-owned homes fell one percent in March .
That pushed the sales of houses , condominiums , and apartments down to an annual rate of just under 4.9 million units .
The same report says the median sales price for a home fell eight percent from the same period last year .
Sales of previously-owned homes are the largest part of the housing market .
Sales of newly-constructed homes will be reported next week .
Problems in the housing market are one key reason for the current economic slowdown in the United States .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has criticized the outcry about the case of an Iranian woman sentenced to die by stoning .
The United States , European Union and international human rights groups have all urged Tehran to stay the execution of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani .
But Ahmadinejad said Thursday the criticism is unfair because the U.S. has sentenced women to death without similar backlash .
He also said the case is still under investigation .
Ashtiani is a 43-year-old mother of two who was first convicted in 2006 for having an " illicit relationship " with two men after the death of her husband the year before .
She was sentenced at the time to 99 lashes .
Later that year , she was also convicted of adultery and sentenced to be stoned , even though she retracted a confession that she says was made under duress .
Moscow has demanded that the United States extradite Leonid Nevzlin , a key executive of Russia 's embattled oil firm Yukos .
The Russian Embassy in Washington submitted the extradition request on Tuesday to the U.S. Department of State and accused Mr. Nevzlin of ordering a series of killings .
The State Department has not yet responded .
Mr. Nevzlin , who has been living in exile in Israel , visited Washington this week to address the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe .
The address covered how the controversial Yukos case was affecting politics and investments in Russia .
The former chief of Yukos , Mikhail Khodorkovsky , was recently sentenced to nine years in prison on tax evasion and fraud charges .
Critics have argued that the case was retaliation for the businessman 's support of the political opposition .
Kremlin officials insisted that they are cracking down on corporate crime .
The Iraqi government has expressed outrage at the publication of more images of U.S. soldiers abusing Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib prison more than two years ago .
Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari 's office condemned the abuse depicted in the images first broadcast by Australian television this week .
And Iraq 's Human Rights Minister Zuhair al-Chalabi told Reuters news agency he believes U.S. forces should hand over their Iraqi detainees to the Iraqi government .
Iraqis have reacted angrily to the images , which show male detainees naked , hanging upside-down from a bed and with various red marks on their bodies .
When images of the abuse were first published in 2004 , they sparked widespread protests .
The U.S. Defense Department says it is concerned that the latest release of the pictures could spark more violence .
It says the abuse incidents at Abu Ghraib have been investigated , and that more than 25 service members have been disciplined because of it .
Afghan officials and residents say civilians are among the dead and wounded following U.S. coalition airstrikes in southern Afghanistan .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says Thursday 's strikes in a remote area of Baghran district in Helmand province targeted two Taleban commanders .
A statement said there were no civilians in the area .
It also said the fate of the commanders was not known .
A provincial police chief , Mohammad Hussein Andiwal , says there were heavy casualties during the strikes but did not know exactly how many Taleban militants and Afghan civilians were killed .
Residents in Baghran district say as many as 200 civilians died .
Hundreds of civilians have been killed during NATO and U.S. military operations against insurgents .
Angry Afghans have protested and President Hamid Karzai has called the situation unacceptable .
Mr. Karzai is scheduled to meet with President Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat north of Washington on Sunday and Monday .
The chief prosecutor in the trial of ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein has detailed government documents surrounding the deadly crackdown on an Iraqi village .
In the paperwork is a document prosecutors said was signed by Saddam approving the execution of 148 Shi'ite Muslim villagers in Dujail .
That item was presented Tuesday .
After Wednesday 's session , the trial was adjourned until March 12 .
Saddam and seven co-defendants are on trial for the killing of more than 140 villagers in Dujail .
The deaths were part of a crackdown following an assassination attempt against Saddam in Dujail .
The defendants face hanging if convicted .
Pro-Moscow officials in Chechnya say federal forces have killed a separatist leader believed to have been involved in a number of terrorist attacks .
Authorities say Rizvan Chitigov was killed Wednesday in a special operation in Chechnya 's Shali district .
The Itar-Tass news agency says in 2001 he had considered producing poisonous substances to use against federal forces .
The agency quotes pro-Moscow Chechen President Alu Alkhanov saying the slain leader was a hard-line field commander with a long record of killing law enforcement and government officials .
Russian troops have been battling separatists in Chechnya for most of the past decade .
Police in western India say at least 30 have been killed and scores of others feared trapped under collapsed buildings as mudslides triggered by monsoon rains continue to lash the region .
Officials in Maharashtra state say worst hit is the area south of the state capital , Mumbai , also known as Bombay , where more than 100 people are feared buried under flattened mud houses .
Authorities have called the army to assist thousands of people stranded by flood and mudslides .
In Bombay , India 's financial and entertainment capital , many low-lying areas are flooded .
Weather forecasters say heavy rains and winds will continue for at least through Wednesday .
India 's monsoon rains , which usually last from June through September , claim hundreds of lives every year .
An Italian reporter held hostage by the Taleban in Afghanistan has appeared speaking in a video received by a non-governmental relief agency .
The Italian aid group , Emergency , said in a statement the videotape of kidnapped journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was received Wednesday .
In it , Mastrogiacomo says " Today is March 12 , it is 8 a.m. in Afghanistan . "
He says he is in good physical conditions and also appeals to the Italian government to work for his release .
Taleban militants captured the reporter last week in Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province .
The Taleban says he has confessed to being a spy , but his newspaper has denied the charge .
The Italian government has said they believed the journalist is alive and has said it is taking steps to gain his freedom .
Russian prosecutors say they have carried out searches of companies tied to the former Yukos oil empire , on suspicion of possible embezzlement and money laundering by the firm 's employees .
In a statement Wednesday , the prosecutor general 's office said that some Yukos employees , whom it did not name , may have sent company funds to so-called " front " companies abroad .
That announcement comes five months after a Moscow court sentenced former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky to nine years in prison on fraud and tax evasion charges .
Critics of President Vladimir Putin call the Khodorkovsky prosecution and imprisonment retaliation for the oil tycoon 's support of Russia 's political opposition , a charge Kremlin authorities deny .
A court recently rejected Mr. Khodorkovsky 's appeal , but reduced his prison term by one year .
Indonesia 's top bird flu official says the country hopes to cut human cases from the virus to zero by the end of 2007 .
Speaking with reporters Friday , Bayu Krisnamurthi said Indonesia does not want to see any new human cases of the H5N1 strain of bird flu by the end of next year .
Indonesia plans to boost public awareness of the disease and restructure its poultry industry to reach its goal .
International aid will nearly double next year , increasing to $ 65 million .
Indonesia has the world 's highest death toll from bird flu - 57 .
The latest bird flu victim died on November 28 .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 , with most of the deaths in Asia .
A Tibet advocacy group has organized an international protest against the Internet search engine Google after the company accepted government restrictions on use of its service in China .
Students For a Free Tibet said Tuesday that thousands of Tibetans around the world have stopped using the Google service .
They say they have sent 45-thousand electronic protest messages to Google executives as well .
The group also organized a demonstration in the northern Indian city of Dharmsala , the headquarters of the exiled Tibetan government .
The group is condemning Google 's move to obey Beijing 's restrictions on free speech , saying it will prohibit access to information about Tibet and other sensitive political issues .
Google executives have defended the decision , acknowledging the restrictions are inconsistent with the company 's policy , but saying they are a worthwhile sacrifice to reach more users .
India and the United States have signed an agreement to help each other investigate organized crime -- including terrorism , drug trafficking and economic offenses .
A statement by India 's interior ( Home ) ministry says the agreement is aimed at helping each other by exchanging evidence and transferring suspects so they can testify in court cases .
The pact will also make it easier for authorities in one country to issue search warrants and orders to seize assets on behalf of officials in the other nation .
It was signed by India 's Home Secretary V. K. Duggal and U.S. Ambassador David Mulford , who said the pact will enhance mutual cooperation to combat " criminal activities , drug trafficking and scourge of terrorism . "
Mr. Duggal said India is the 16th country to sign such a treaty with the United States .
The others include Britain , Canada , France , Russia and Switzerland .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels say the group 's chief negotiator , Anton Balasingham , will lead their delegation in the upcoming peace talks with the government in Geneva , Switzerland .
The Sri Lankan government has named Health Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva to head its delegation in the two days of talks set to begin February 22 .
Norwegian peace-broker Erik Solheim announced the date Monday after meeting in London with Balasingham .
The talks will be aimed at salvaging a Norway-brokered truce that went into effect in February 2002 .
Although subsequent peace talks broke down one year later , the truce more or less held until recently .
But renewed violence has put that truce in jeopardy .
Since December , more than 150 Sri Lankans have been killed .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says he is confident that a European Commission report due this week will recommend moving forward on his country 's application for admission to the European Union .
Mr. Erdogan told a German television interviewer Sunday that Turkey will settle for nothing less than full EU membership , and he rejected suggestions by some EU politicians that Turkey lacks European values .
But the bloc 's expansion commissioner , Guenter Verheugen , has told Germany 's Bild am Sonntag newspaper that the recommendations to EU leaders , due out Wednesday , will be more critical than is widely expected of Turkey 's level of compliance with EU human rights standards .
The EU leaders are to consider that report when they vote in December whether to move forward with membership talks .
Mr. Erdogan is in Berlin to meet with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder .
Iran says it is willing to return to nuclear negotiations with the European Union , but also says it will not suspend nuclear fuel processing .
Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman Reza Asefi told a news conference in Tehran Sunday the Iranian government is ready to continue unconditional talks .
He said he was hopeful the two sides could reach an agreement and avoid a referral to the U.N. Security Council .
Britain , France and Germany have said they want Iran to halt uranium processing at its Isfahan plant , which Tehran resumed in August .
Otherwise , they said they will back U.S. efforts to refer Iran to the Security Council where it could eventually face sanctions .
The United States say Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program will only be used to generate electricity .
Security forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas 's Fatah faction have arrested more than 50 rival Hamas activists in the occupied West Bank .
Among those arrested by Mr. Abbas 's forces Monday in the city of Nablus were several prominent local leaders and university professors .
Authorities have not immediately given a reason for the arrests .
Tensions are running high between the rival Palestinian factions since a bombing in the Gaza Strip last Friday killed five Hamas members and a young girl .
Hamas accused Fatah of carrying out the attack , and has detained at least 160 Fatah supporters in Gaza .
Fatah has denied involvement , blaming the blast on Hamas infighting .
The two Palestinian factions have been at odds since Hamas routed Fatah forces in a civil war last year and seized control of Gaza .
A Spanish judge has ordered four Algerians held on charges of running a support network for an Islamic extremist group tied to al-Qaida and released seven others on bail while the investigation continues .
The 11 were arrested last week on suspicion of membership in a cell linked to the Algerian-based Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat .
Meanwhile , French police say they have detained six suspected Islamic extremists on charges of providing logistical support to radical networks .
Authorities say the suspects drew attention to themselves by possessing assets far above their earnings .
But officials say the six were not suspected of planning any attacks .
Police in Britain also announced the arrest north of London of a man suspected of purchasing weapons for use in terrorism .
In Denmark , authorities have released two of seven people arrested last month on suspicion of planning an attack in Europe .
Hundreds of Cambodians have joined an unusual wedding ceremony for two pythons whom they hope will bring good luck to their villages .
In Monday 's ceremony , villagers in southern Cambodia 's Kandal province wedded a female python named Chamrouen and a male python named Kroung Pich and placed them in the same cage .
The new couple also received a blessing from Buddhist monks .
Many Cambodians subscribe to animism - the belief that spirits can inhabit living creatures and inanimate objects .
The owner of the female python says villagers performed the ceremony on the recommendation of fortune tellers , who said the snakes belong together and keeping them apart could bring bad luck .
Neth Vy said he had raised Chamrouen in his family home since 1994 after finding the then-tiny python while fishing .
People in a neighboring village caught the male python last month .
A group of about 150 Guatemalan refugees has returned home , more than two decades after fleeing the civil war then tearing up their country .
The group arrived in Guatemala from Bolivia Sunday .
Most had fled to neighboring Honduras in 1981 .
United Nations officials later sent them to Bolivia for their safety .
About 200,000 people died in Guatemala 's civil war from 1960 to 1996 .
Tens of thousands were displaced by the fighting .
The Guatemalan government had long discussed helping refugees return home , but it did not take action until Bolivian President Evo Morales expressed support for the repatriation in 2005 .
The European Union has formally taken over peacekeeping duties in Bosnia-Herzegovina from NATO .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and NATO head Jaap de Hoop Scheffer oversaw the transfer of power ceremony Thursday at Sarajevo 's Camp Butmir .
NATO agreed earlier this year to turn over peacekeeping to the EU , citing what it called the improved security situation in Bosnia .
The new EU force , EUFOR , consists of about 7,000 soldiers .
NATO it is not completely withdrawing from Bosnia .
It will maintain a headquarters there to focus on fighting terrorism , gathering intelligence and arresting war crimes suspects .
NATO sent 60,000 peacekeepers to Bosnia in 1995 to enforce the Dayton Peace Accords that ended fighting among Bosnia 's ethnic Serbs , Muslims and Croats .
The top international mediator in Bosnia-Herzegovina has warned the prime minister of the country 's Serb Republic , Milorad Dodik , against statements that question the country 's sovereignty and territorial integrity .
High Representative Miroslav Lajcak said the international community stands united in its determination not to tolerate any attempts to undermine the 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement that halted the Bosnian conflict .
He said that under the agreement , Bosnia is made up of two entities - the Serb Republic and Muslim-Croat Federation .
The mediator noted that in advance of last year 's elections , Mr. Dodik signed a pledge to honor the provisions of the accord .
The Bosnian Serb prime minister recently has questioned Bosnia 's constitutional structure and raised the issue of the Serb Republic 's possible secession from the country .
Iraqi police say 11 people have been killed in suicide bomb attacks targeting an officer in an Iraqi special forces unit in Samara , north of Baghdad .
The officer escaped injury .
In the first attack , a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the home of the officer , killing and wounding people in the street , but not harming anyone in the house .
Shortly afterward , two people identified as insurgents tried to set a bomb outside the same house .
They were killed by their bomb .
Earlier , in an attack overnight , eight policemen were killed when insurgents struck a police station near the city of Ramadi , the capital of Anbar province .
Police and other members of Iraq 's security forces are frequently targeted by insurgents , who regard the security personnel as collaborators with U.S. troops .
Many Muslims around the world are celebrating the first day of Eid al-Fitr , a festival marking the end of a month-long fast .
In Saudi Arabia Sunday , thousands gathered in Mecca for special early morning prayers marking the end of Ramadan .
Jordan 's King Abdullah joined a prayer service in the Red Sea port of Aqaba .
And Islamic faithful joined services in Egypt and Iraq .
In Washington , President Barack Obama released a statement greeting Muslims on the occasion , calling it a time to celebrate and remember those less fortunate .
The start of the three-day Eid holiday varies in Muslim communities and countries , depending on the sighting of the new crescent moon .
During the holiday , Muslims visit friends and neighbors , exchange gifts and enjoy lunchtime feasts .
It breaks the month-long fast of Ramadan , when Muslims abstain from eating , drinking , smoking and sexual relations from sunrise to sundown .
Somalia 's Islamists have extended their influence in the lawless country by setting up an Islamic court in a central region .
The Supreme Islamic Council of Somalia , SICS , which controls the capital , Mogadishu , says it is opening a sharia court in the central town Adaado .
Islamic officials say the area 's residents had invited them to impose sharia law .
The leader of the SICS , Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys , arrived in Adaado Monday to meet with the town 's elders .
Islamic leaders have been trying to widen their control from southern to central Somalia after ousting secular warlords from Mogadishu in June .
Somalia 's largely powerless transitional government , based in Baidoa , suffered another blow Tuesday , when four more ministers resigned , joining 18 officials who quit last week .
They say they resigned because the government of Prime Minister Mohammed Ali Gedi has failed to restore stability to Somalia .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has emphatically restated his refusal to hold a national referendum on his Gaza withdrawal plan , telling his Likud party that referendum calls are a stalling tactic by opponents of the plan .
In a brief address Thursday , Mr. Sharon noted widespread Israeli public support for the plan to withdraw troops and settlers from Gaza and four small West Bank enclaves later this year .
He accused opponents of the pull-out of trying to hide their opposition behind the referendum calls .
Tuesday , Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom broke ranks with Mr. Sharon , saying he will lead a referendum push .
Polls show at least two-thirds of Israelis favor the pullout , but there is strong opposition from settlers and their supporters .
Mr. Sharon says pull-out opponents have threatened lawmakers , army officers and security officials to gain their support for a referendum .
Officials in Afghanistan say two NATO soldiers have been wounded in a bomb attack in the north of the country .
The roadside blast hit a convoy of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force Thursday in Baghlan province , 160 kilometers north of Kabul .
Local officials say two Dutch soldiers were wounded .
Taleban fighters have been involved in clashes with U.S. and Afghan government troops in the south and east of the country .
Officials say some anti-government militants operate in the north , but attacks there are rare .
South Korea 's Agriculture Ministry confirmed Saturday that a new outbreak of bird flu there is the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain of the virus .
Officials say test results showed chickens at a farm in Cheonan , 90 kilometers south of the capital , Seoul , were infected with the disease .
South Korea will slaughter more than 270,000 poultry near the farm to try to keep the virus from spreading further .
The outbreak is South Korea 's fifth since November .
Bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 .
Health Ministry officials in Indonesia and Egypt also announced new human fatalities from bird flu today .
Indonesian officials say a 19-year-old woman from West Java died Friday from the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
In Egypt , a 27-year-old woman infected with bird flu died on Friday at a hospital in Cairo .
Pakistan briefly blocked two independent news channels Saturday , as they covered the standoff between militants and soldiers at army headquarters in Islamabad
The Geo and SAMA channels , were taken off the air for a short period of time .
The stations showed a message from Pakistan 's media regulatory body saying it is temporarily suspending transmission of " independent news TV channels " until further notice .
Both stations have been critical of the government in the past .
A Malaysian court has awarded former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim $ 1.2 million in libel damages from an author who wrote a book accusing him of sexual misconduct and treason .
Mr. Anwar 's suit targeted Khalid Jafri , writer of 50 Reasons why Anwar Can not be Prime Minister , which was published three months before Mr. Anwar was fired in September 1998 and subsequently convicted of corruption and sodomy charges .
Mr. Anwar served six years in prison before the sodomy conviction was overturned .
He had completed the corruption sentence .
The high court Thursday ordered Mr. Khalid to pay damages for making a " vicious and venomous public attack " against Mr. Anwar .
Mr. Anwar told reporters the judgment shows that he has been completely vindicated .
He has repeatedly denied all of Mr. Khalid 's accusations .
Iraqi officials say twin car bombs exploded outside the northern city of Mosul Monday , killing a prison official and one civilian .
Police say the bombs wounded at least 16 others when they detonated at a residential compound for security guards working at Badoosh prison .
The prison holds convicted insurgents , al-Qaida militants and other criminals from across Iraq .
Meanwhile in Baghdad , two car bombs killed at least one person and wounded seven others , including four police officers .
Insurgents have increasingly targeted Iraqi police and government employees in recent months .
The latest violence comes shortly after the chief of staff of Iraq 's armed forces ( Babaker Zibari ) told VOA ( Persian News Network ) that unlike in the past , al-Qaida members and other terrorists now have no permanent bases in Iraq .
Cuba has condemned the execution of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein , calling it an " illegal act " in a country that has been " driven into internal conflict . "
The statement by Cuba 's Ministry of Foreign Relations appeared Monday in the newspaper , Granma , the government 's official publication .
The statement says Cuba has a moral obligation to speak out against , what it calls , the " assassination " of Saddam by an " occupying power , " referring to the United States .
The statement says Cuba has not itself abolished the death penalty because of the " brutal war " imposed on it by the U.S.
The United States had held Saddam since capturing him in December 2003 , but released him to the Iraqi government for hanging on Saturday .
The White House says President Bush will meet Thursday in Washington with Salva Kiir , a vice president in the national Sudanese government and the president of semi-autonomous southern Sudan .
A statement Tuesday said the two leaders will discuss implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war in 2005 .
The agreement has appeared increasingly shaky , especially since former southern rebels withdrew their ministers from the national government in Khartoum last month .
The Sudan People 's Liberation Movement has accused Khartoum of blocking implementation of the peace deal .
The former rebels are demanding withdrawal of northern troops and more control over the oil-producing Abiya region .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mr. Kiir will also discuss efforts to bring peace to Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
Peace talks in Libya last month made little progress as the chief Darfur rebel groups refused to attend .
The U.S. House of Representatives has approved a $ 516 billion budget measure that funds American troops in Afghanistan and all federal agencies except the Pentagon .
The measure passed late Monday includes $ 31 billion for the troops in Afghanistan , but does not include funding for military operations in Iraq .
The Senate is expected to add $ 40 billion for operations in Iraq when it debates the spending package Tuesday .
In a speech Monday , President Bush said he was pleased to report that good progress was being made toward coming up with a " fiscally sound budget . "
He has called for a bill that funds the troops in Iraq without including demands for a withdrawal .
The House bill reversed domestic spending cuts sought by President Bush in areas including medical research grants , student aid , law enforcement and heating subsidies .
A top Indian official says a stalemate in the peace process with Pakistan will end only after Islamabad clamps down on terror groups operating from its territory .
Junior Minister for External Affairs , Anand Sharma , told the Indian media Sunday talks can only take place when Pakistan realizes the need to take firm action .
India called off a two day meeting between top diplomats from both countries following the train bombings in Mumbai ( formerly known as Bombay ) on July 11 , which killed nearly 200 people .
Indian investigators arrested eight suspects .
They say at least one of those arrested is believed to be a leader of the Pakistan-based Kashmiri militant group known as Lashkar-e-Toiba , which officials suspect was involved in the attacks .
Lashkar has denied any involvement
South Korea and Bolivia are nearing an agreement to develop a coveted lithium resource in the South American country .
South Korean media quoted unnamed government officials Tuesday saying the countries are working on the final draft of a deal to be signed when Bolivian President Evo Morales visits Seoul this month .
It was not clear whether the agreement would entitle South Korea to extract the lithium .
Bolivia holds roughly half of the world 's lithium reserves in the Salar de Uyuni lake area .
Japan , China , France and Brazil also have expressed an interest in developing the resource .
Lithium is used in rechargeable batteries for laptop computers , mobile phones and electric cars .
Police in Israel have arrested the captain of a cargo ship that collided with a Japanese fishing boat in the Pacific last month , an accident that killed seven Japanese crew members .
The Israeli captain and other crew members were detained for questioning Sunday when their ship , the Zim Asia , docked in the northern Israeli port city of Haifa .
Police say the captain and others could face charges of " causing accidental death " as well as for failing to help the crew of the capsized boat .
Only one of the Japanese fishermen aboard the Shinsei Maru No. 3 survived the collision on September 28 .
The captain of the Zim Asia , Moshe Ben-David , has previously said he was unaware of any collision , but the Zim shipping company has apologized for the incident and offered compensatiion to the victims .
Residents of Somalia 's capital Mogadishu say clashes between rival militias Saturday killed at least 10 people and wounded at least 40 others .
Witnesses say civilians including women and children were among the casualties .
The fighting was sparked by a territorial dispute between gunmen loyal to Mogadishu 's Islamic courts and fighters allied with local warlords .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew former President Mohamed Siad Barre .
The country 's interim government , set up in 2004 , has been hampered by disputes between the president and parliament speaker and their allies .
The interim parliament is scheduled to hold its first meeting on Somali soil next Sunday after previous meetings in Kenya .
The United States contacted the United Nations Security Council after North Korea test launched the missiles .
In a statement , U.N. Ambassador John Bolton said Tuesday he is urgently consulting with other members of the 15-nation body .
Officials say that so far an emergency meeting of the security council has not been requested .
The council is expected to take up the issue on Wednesday at its regular consultations .
Polish Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz says he is ordering an investigation into reports that the CIA had run secret prisons for suspected terrorists in Poland .
Mr. Marcinkiewicz told Polish television , TVN 24 , the matter must finally be closed because it could prove dangerous for Poland .
Polish authorities have repeatedly denied reports that Poland was the main European center for detaining such suspects .
Meanwhile , Germany 's Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier denied suggestions that his country 's security officers played any role in the detention of a German citizen by CIA agents .
Mr. Stainmeier told the newspaper Bild such reports are irresponsible .
He was referring to the case of Khaled el-Masri , who was mistakenly abducted by American agents in Macedonia in 2003 and held for five months in Afghanistan .
Egyptian police say they have seized 500 kilograms of explosives in the central Sinai Peninsula .
Authorities say the explosives were bound for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip .
The police say they found the explosives under plastic sheeting in the desert .
Over the past two years , Islamic extremists have carried out several terror attacks on southern Sinai beach resorts .
Israel claims that weapons and explosives are being smuggled from Egypt into the Gaza Strip .
The Israeli military has said it found underground tunnels between Egypt and the Gaza Strip that were used by weapons smugglers .
Israel and Palestinian factions in the Gaza Strip agreed on a ceasefire over one week ago .
China says it has pledged $ 1 million to help Iraq hold elections in January .
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue says Beijing made the pledge this week during a conference on Iraq 's political future in the Egyptian resort of Sharm El-Sheikh .
The spokeswoman said China has actively taken part in efforts to rebuild and promote peace in Iraq and will also provide training for diplomats and for professionals in the business management and energy sectors .
Earlier this year , China wrote off parts of Iraq 's debts and pledged $ 25 million in reconstruction aid .
Doctors in the United States are testing a possible breakthrough treatment for brain cancer .
Scorpion venom has been administered to dozens of patients at four hospitals after researchers found that the agent selectively attached to tumor cells while sparing normal cells .
Steve Mort reports for VOA on one clinical trial-taking place at a Florida hospital .
Philippine police have rescued two hostages and arrested 10 members of a kidnap gang in a Manila suburb .
Operatives from the National Anti-Kidnapping Task Force raided the kidnappers ' hideout in Las Pinas city , south of Manila , Sunday .
They rescued 26-year-old Jeffrey Cruz and his girlfriend 20-year-old Katrina Schoof , who were abducted four days ago near the upscale Ayala Alabang shopping district .
The kidnappers had demanded a ransom of nearly $ 550,000 .
Last year , President Gloria Arroyo ordered a massive crackdown on kidnap gangs , leading to the arrests or killing of several gang leaders .
The government says a rash of kidnappings in Manila targeting businessmen has scared off potential investors .
Officials in Baghdad say five suspects arrested in the kidnapping and murder of British aid worker Margaret Hassan have admitted involvement in her death .
An Iraqi police spokesman says the men , along with several others , were detained after two early morning raids Sunday in a town south of Baghdad .
He said during the first raid , American and Iraqi troops found several articles believed to be related to the 59-year-old aid worker abducted last October .
Although her body has not been found , a video released to an Arabic news channel , al-Jazeera , showed the murder of a western woman believed to be Mrs. Hassan .
The station refused to air the entire tape for what it called humanitarian reasons .
Married to an Iraqi man , the former director of the Baghdad office of CARE International spent 30 years caring for Iraq 's poorest citizens .
Afghan officials say an Afghan security officer opened fire on U.S. troops while conducting a joint operation with them , killing two and wounding two others .
A spokesman for the governor of Wardak province said the shooting occurred late Friday while Afghan and U.S. forces were on patrol together in Wardak .
It is unclear what motivated the shooting .
A statement from NATO-led forces in Afghanistan said two U.S. soldiers died from injuries sustained in a " hostile attack " Friday , but declined to give further details .
NATO says two other U.S. troops died Friday in a bomb attack in southern Afghanistan .
Another died of wounds sustained in a bomb attack in eastern Afghanistan .
U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan have recently been facing stiffer Taliban resistance .
2009 is the deadliest year for foreign forces since the conflict began nearly eight years ago .
First settled by the French in the early 17th century , the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of France 's once vast North American possessions .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has ordered the immediate release of Mario Cerkez , a former Bosnian Croat commander convicted of atrocities against Muslim civilians in 1993 .
The tribunal 's appeals chamber said Thursday that a revision of Cerkez ' sentence is necessary , but added it will give the reasons for its release order on December 17 .
Analysts told the French news agency , AFP , the release order could mean that the tribunal has decided to reduce Cerkez ' sentence from 15 years to time already served .
In 2001 , the tribunal convicted Cerkez and another defendant , Dario Kordic , of leading a campaign of ethnic cleansing that virtually emptied parts of central Bosnia-Herzegovina of its Muslim population .
Both men pleaded not guilty and appealed their convictions .
Mr. Cerkez surrendered to the tribunal in 1997 .
The Gambia has sparse natural resource deposits and a limited agricultural base , and relies in part on remittances from workers overseas and tourist receipts .
About three-quarters of the population depends on the agricultural sector for its livelihood .
Small-scale manufacturing activity features the processing of peanuts , fish , and hides .
The Gambia 's natural beauty and proximity to Europe has made it one of the larger markets for tourism in West Africa , boosted by government and private sector investments in eco-tourism and upscale facilities .
In the past few years , The Gambia 's re-export trade - traditionally a major segment of economic activity - has declined , but its banking sector has grown rapidly .
Unemployment and underemployment rates remain high ; economic progress depends on sustained bilateral and multilateral aid , on responsible government economic management , and on continued technical assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors .
The quality of fiscal management , however , is weak .
The government has promised to raise civil service wages over the next two years and the deficit is projected to worsen .
Pakistani intelligence officials say a missile fired by an unmanned aircraft has killed at least 12 people in northwest Pakistan .
All such attacks by drone aircraft are believed to be carried out by U.S. forces .
Saturday 's missile strike , aimed at a compound in the village of Issori in North Waziristan , is the first known to have taken place since the start of monsoon floods that have battered much of the country .
During President Barack Obama 's administration there has been an increase in such remote-controlled air strikes against suspected al-Qaida and Taliban hideouts near Pakistan 's border with Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's government has protested against the attacks as a violation of its sovereignty .
China says it is sharply increasing government spending on AIDS prevention in an effort to limit the spread of ( HIV ) the virus that causes the disease .
The China Daily reports the annual budget for AIDS prevention programs will rise to 185-million dollars over the next two years - nearly twice the $ 99 million spent this year on anti-AIDS campaigns .
Beijing 's spending on AIDS prevention has increased dramatically since 2001 , when $ 12 million was budgeted for such efforts .
Wednesday 's announcement says China intends to drastically reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS , aiming for a maximum 1.5 million infections by 2010 .
Beijing says 840,000 Chinese are currently HIV-positive , but some experts believe that sharply understates the true extent of infection ( in the world 's most populous country ) .
The World Health Organization estimates the AIDS virus could spread to up to 10 million Chinese during the next five years .
In Hiroshima , Japan , tens of thousands of people gathered Saturday to reflect on the explosion exactly 60 years before of an atom bomb in the sky above the city .
The city observed a moment of silence at 8:15 in the morning local time , when the world 's first atomic bomb attack occurred on August 6 , 1945 .
In a speech at Hiroshima 's Peace Memorial Park , the city 's mayor called for all nations possessing nuclear weapons to abandon their arsenals .
The atomic bomb , dropped on Hiroshima by a U.S. bomber during World War II , killed more than 140,000 people .
Three days later , another atom bomb killed more than 80,000 in Nagasaki , Japan .
Japan surrendered on August 15 , 1945 , ending World War II .
At least 15 leftist rebels have been killed in clashes with Colombian troops .
Colombian officials said Sunday most of those killed were members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) .
The fighting came two days after FARC forces attacked two towns , killing three police officers and a girl .
For more than 40 years , Colombia has been mired in a civil war involving the 12,000 strong FARC and a smaller rebel group , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
The Voice of America is calling on the Ethiopian government to immediately restore accreditation to VOA reporters covering this week 's election-related protests .
Director David Jackson Friday called the action unwarranted and urged Ethiopian authorities to allow reporters to continue bringing uncensored news to VOA audiences in Africa and around the world .
The three VOA reporters , and two German radio reporters , were covering this week 's demonstrations in Ethiopia 's capital , Addis Ababa , where police opened fire on protesters , killing at least 26 people .
Hundreds of others , including opposition leaders , have been arrested .
Meanwhile , Ethiopia 's rival parties signed a deal Friday to end the clashes , which also includes an agreement on how to probe claims of electoral fraud .
Initial results indicate the ruling party won a majority , but opposition groups say the vote was rigged and declared victory .
Costa Rican President Abel Pacheco has criticized a proposal by U.S. lawmakers to build a wall between the United States and Mexico to halt illegal immigration .
President Pacheco told a Mexico City news conference Tuesday that he questioned the effectiveness of such a wall and suggested U.S. resources could be better used .
The Costan Rican president had been meeting with foreign ministers from several other Central American nations this week to discuss regional immigration issues .
The group issued a statement expressing concern over draft legislation in the U.S. Congress that includes punishing illegal immigrants .
Last month , the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure calling for the construction of security fencing along the southern U.S. border with Mexico in an effort to curb illegal border-crossing .
The measure must still be considered by the U.S. Senate .
Pope John Paul saw Asia - with its tens of thousands of annual conversions to the Catholic church - as fertile ground for evangelization .
He once referred to the continent as " a church that is still being born . "
The pope made at least a dozen trips to Asian nations during his 26-year papacy .
He twice visited the Philippines - home to two-thirds of Asia 's Catholics and the only predominantly Roman Catholic nation in Asia .
His 1995 trip drew an estimated three-million people .
He also visited South Korea , Indonesia , Thailand , Japan and Singapore , among other countries .
Among the Asian nations that Pope John Paul had hoped to travel to and never did were Vietnam , Cambodia , Laos , and Mongolia .
Church officials say he never ruled out a visit to North Korea .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has met Iranian leaders in Tehran to discuss regional tensions and bilateral trade .
Mr. Erdogan had separate meetings Sunday with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Vice President Parviz Davoodi .
Iranian state media say Mr. Erdogan raised Iraq 's security situation during the talks .
Iran and Turkey share borders with Iraq and are concerned about sectarian violence in the country .
The Turkish prime minister also said he would discuss boosting trade with Iran .
He is accompanied on the visit by Turkish oil and gas officials .
Relations between Iran and Turkey have not always been smooth .
Turkey has good relations with the United States and Israel , two countries viewed as hostile by Iran 's government .
Iran says it has arrested several Iranian journalists , charging that their work was aimed at fueling ethnic divisions within the country .
Iran 's intelligence ministry announced the arrests but has not named the journalists who were detained .
A ministry statement says the journalists admitted they were receiving significant sums of U.S. dollars from abroad to publish articles aimed at partitioning Iran .
The ministry did not say where the money was coming from .
Iran 's largest ethnic minorities include Kurds , Arabs , Azeris and Baluchis .
Human rights groups have criticized Iran for suppressing the rights of its ethnic minorities .
Last week , Iranian state media said Revolutionary Guard forces killed 17 rebels during a battle in the northwestern province of West Azerbaijan .
In February , rebels in the southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchistan bombed a bus carrying members of the Revolutionary Guard , killing eleven .
Iranian state media said a Sunni Muslim group named Jundollah claimed responsibility for that bombing .
Iran is mostly Shi'ite .
Tens of thousands of people in St. Peter 's Square stood in tearful silence after the death of Pope John Paul II was announced .
Vatican officials told the pilgrims that a Mass for the pope will be held in the square Sunday morning .
Pilgrims cried , held rosaries and candles , and prayed after the announcement of the pontiff 's death .
The bells of the churches of Rome tolled after the announcement .
A service of hymns , Bible readings and prayers followed .
Someone in the crowd waved a large Polish flag .
Some pilgrims had spent the night Friday in the square , located beneath the pope 's apartment window at the Vatican .
Many had kept up a continuous vigil for the pontiff .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz is in Rwanda Thursday , for the third stop in his four-nation African tour .
Mr. Wolfowitz visited the memorial to the some 800,000 victims of Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
He said it is clear the tragedy could have been prevented and said he regrets the international community did n't do more .
Mr. Wolfowitz is also scheduled to meet with President Paul Kagame .
He will also tour World Bank funded projects in the country .
Mr. Wolfowitz is on his first trip to Africa since he became head of the Washington-based World Bank on June 1 .
He ended a two-day tour of Burkina Faso Wednesday , and visited Nigeria earlier this week .
He wraps up his African tour Friday in South Africa .
Turkish officials say soldiers have killed 10 Kurdish guerrillas in a clash in a remote area of southeast Turkey .
Local authorities said Sunday that soldiers pursued militants from the Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) during a four-day operation in Sirnak province , and were involved in a firefight after the rebels failed to surrender .
Officials say the soldiers also confiscated weapons and explosives during the operation .
The clash coincided with a bomb attack at a resort in western Turkey which killed five people .
Officials blame Saturday 's bombing on the PKK , but the separatist group denies any involvement in the attack .
The PKK took up arms against the Turkish state in 1984 with the aim of establishing an ethnic homeland in southeast Turkey .
More than 30,000 people have died in the conflict .
President Bush has returned to Washington after wrapping up a tour of South Asia that took him to Afghanistan , India and Pakistan .
The final leg of the trip was in Islamabad , where Mr. Bush held talks Saturday with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf on a range of topics , including the war on terrorism and democratic reforms in Pakistan .
Mr. Bush praised the Pakistani leader 's commitment to fighting terror but warned that more work was needed to defeat al-Qaida .
Earlier in India , the U.S. president and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced a landmark agreement to provide U.S. support for India 's civilian nuclear projects .
Mr. Bush 's trip began with a surprise visit to Afghanistan Wednesday , where he expressed the United States ' commitment to rebuilding the country .
The president 's trip sparked protests in several Indian and Pakistani cities .
Offshore banking , manufacturing , and tourism are key sectors of the economy .
The government offers low taxes and other incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions to locate on the island ; this has paid off in expanding employment opportunities in high-income industries .
As a result , agriculture and fishing , once the mainstays of the economy , have declined in their contributions to GDP .
The Isle of Man also attracts online gambling sites and the film industry .
Trade is mostly with the UK .
The Isle of Man enjoys free access to EU markets .
Economic activity is limited to servicing meteorological and geophysical research stations , military bases , and French and other fishing fleets .
The fish catches landed on Iles Kerguelen by foreign ships are exported to France and Reunion .
Nigeria has approved the deployment of 2,000 peacekeeping troops to Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
A defense spokesman , Brigadier General Ganiyu Adewale , says the first 700 soldiers will leave for Darfur on Friday .
They will boost an African Union force monitoring a shaky cease-fire in the region .
The A.U. force now consists of more than 2,000 soldiers and hundreds of civilian police officers .
Nigerian troops already are part of the force .
Officials hope to increase the size of the force to 12,000 by next year .
The conflict in Darfur pits rebels against government backed-militias .
The violence has left tens of thousands of people dead and more than two million displaced .
Serbia 's foreign minister says his country will not follow Russia 's example in recognizing the breakaway Georgian territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia .
Vuk Jeremic told a Vienna newspaper Die PresseWednesday that recognizing such independence would not be in line with Serbian policy .
Jeremic reaffirmed Serbian gratitude for Moscow 's opposition to independence for Kosovo , the breakaway Serbian province that declared independence earlier this year .
But he emphasized that Serbia is " not a part of a Russian policy " and must act in accordance with its own best interests .
Serbia insists that the declaration of independence adopted by Kosovo 's Albanian leaders in February is illegal .
The United States and 46 other countries have recognized Kosovo independence .
Serbia , backed by veto-wielding U.N. Security Council member Russia , insists on maintaining sovereignty over the area .
On Tuesday , Serbia 's president asked the United Nations ' main judicial unit , the International Court of Justice , to weigh in on the legality of Kosovo 's declaration of independence .
President Boris Tadic , addressing the U.N. General Assembly , also said the move may create precedents for other breakaway regions .
Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has announced a new initiative for training Muslim clergy and boosting the study of moderate Islam in British colleges and universities .
Mr. Blair announced the government plan Monday at an Islamic conference in London .
He said he feared extremists could drown out what he called the " true voice " of Islam .
The nearly $ 2 million initiative follows a government report that found Islamic studies in Britain focus broadly on conditions in the Middle East , while often failing to reflect the realities of Muslim life in Britain .
Mr. Blair also stressed that his decisions to back U.S.-led military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq had nothing to do with religion .
He said the religious faith of both countries was no more relevant to those decisions than to the decision his government took in the 1990s to support ethnic Albanian Muslims in Serbia 's embattled Kosovo province .
One of the 33 Chilean miners trapped for 40 days has become a new father , but he will have to wait weeks before he can hold his daughter .
Ariel Ticona 's wife gave birth to their daughter , Esperanza – Spanish for Hope , on Tuesday at a hospital in Copiapo , near the mine .
Drilling to free Ticona and the 32 other men has been temporarily halted due to a broken drill head , but authorities say it will not significantly delay the rescue effort .
Emergency workers made contact with them on August 22 .
Authorities say a rescue could take until the end of the year .
The miners have been receiving food , medicine , letters , cigarettes and other items through a chute to the chamber where they are located .
The miners have been underground since August 5 , when they were trapped by a cave-in .
Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy , which held sway in both France and England .
The islands were the only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II .
Guernsey is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK or of the European Union .
However , the UK Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation .
The International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) has rescinded its suspension of Iraq , allowing the Middle Eastern nation to compete at the Beijing Games .
IOC officials said Tuesday that they are lifting Iraq 's ban because the government has pledged to ensure the independence of its national Olympic committee .
The decision follows last-minute talks between Iraqi officials and the IOC in Lausanne , Switzerland .
A deadline to submit competitors ' names for athletics events expires on Wednesday .
Iraq is expected to send two athletes to Beijing .
Five others lost their chance to go when the final date to select competitors for archery , judo , rowing and weightlifting passed last week .
Iraq has won only one bronze medal since its first appearance at the Summer Olympics in 1948 .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has wrapped up a week-long European trip by meeting with Spanish business leaders in efforts to expand trade and economic ties .
Spain 's King Juan Carlos joined Mr. Hu in inaugurating the first Spanish-Chinese business convention bringing together business representatives from both countries .
Monday , Mr. Hu and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero signed an agreement making Spain a privileged partner in economic and political dealings with China .
Spain and China also reached an extradition accord .
But Spain , in accordance with European Union policy , will not send back suspects who could face the death penalty in China .
Spain was the last stop on Mr. Hu 's European tour , which included Germany and Britain .
Demonstrators protesting Chinese policies on human rights and Tibet followed Mr. Hu throughout his trip .
A top U.S. business lobby group says the recently signed India-U.S. nuclear deal could open up $ 100 billion in business ventures for Americans in the Indian energy sector .
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce 's senior vice president of international affairs , Dan Christman , made the remark .
He said the agreement would also spur energy-starved India 's economic reforms and open markets to U.S. investment in key areas from information technology and telecommunications to pharmaceuticals and insurance .
The deal was clinched last week during President Bush 's visit to New Delhi , but it still requires U.S. congressional approval .
The chamber represents more than three million American businesses and organizations , and it says it would make a " massive grassroots effort " to win congressional approval of the agreement .
A MAN finding a frozen Viper put it into his bosom .
" The coldness of the human heart , " he said , with a grin , " will keep the creature in his present condition until I can reach home and revive him on the coals . "
But the pleasures of hope so fired his heart that the Viper thawed , and sliding to the ground thanked the Man civilly for his hospitality and glided away .
Israeli police say they have detained three Hamas lawmakers in Jerusalem .
Police say the Hamas minister for Jerusalem affairs , Khaled Abu Arafa , was detained Monday along with Mohammed Abu Teir and Ahmed Abu Atoun .
They were questioned on suspicion of organizing a rally on Jerusalem 's Al Aqsa mosque compound to raise money for the Hamas organization .
The three men have denied the charge .
Israel bans all Palestinian political activity in east Jerusalem .
The Al Aqsa mosque compound houses the third-holiest site in Islam , but also marks Judaism 's most sacred spot - the ruins of biblical Jewish temples .
Israel considers Hamas a terrorist organization .
Hamas is sworn to Israel 's destruction .
A Chinese state-run oil company is offering to buy U.S.-based Unocal Oil for $ 18.5 billion in cash , more than a rival offer by U.S.-based Chevron Corporation .
The deal would more than double the oil and gas output of China National Offshore Oil Company and increase its reserves by more than 80 percent .
The company says such a sale would not hurt U.S. markets .
Chevron says it stands behind its merger agreement with Unocal , which has been approved by the Federal Trade Commission .
Chevron warned that a merger with a Chinese firm would be subject to extensive U.S. government regulatory review .
A competing company would also have to pay Chevron a $ 500-million fee if it broke up the Unocal-Chevron deal .
Pakistani troops shut down three FM radio stations Friday after the stations aired a speech by a pro-Taliban cleric .
The military said it confiscated a large quantity of illegal arms , ammunition , audio cassettes , and what it described as " provocative literature . "
At least seven suspected militants who worked at the stations were arrested .
The raids took place in Pakistan 's Swat Valley , a restive resort area in Pakistan 's northwest .
On Thursday , the stations had broadcast a recording of a fiery speech by Maulana Fazlullah , a radical Muslim cleric who has tried to enforce Taliban-style Islam in Swat .
Pakistan 's security forces have been battling Fazlullah 's supporters since last year .
Israel launched a series of air strikes on the Gaza Strip Sunday , killing seven Palestinian militants .
Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev says the strikes were in retaliation for a Hamas attack Saturday on an Israeli cargo crossing at the Gaza border .
Hamas militants in Gaza drove two cars packed with explosives into the border crossing , killing four of the militants and wounding 13 Israeli soldiers .
Israeli military officials say the attack may have been part of a larger plot to kidnap Israeli soldiers .
Hamas claimed responsibility for the bombing and promised to stage more attacks to break Israel 's blockade on the Gaza Strip .
Hamas has controlled Gaza for nearly a year .
Israel says its blockade is pressuring militants in the Palestinian territory to end daily rocket fire on Israeli towns across the border .
President Bush signed a new anti-genetic discrimination bill on May 22 .
He says the act protects Americans against misuse of their genetic information by employers and insurance companies .
The U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation earlier this month with a near unanimous vote .
Later , the Senate unanimously approved it .
VOA 's Deborah Block reports .
The Perth-based firm Barrett Communications reportedly has sold about 50 radio sets to the Burmese government International monitors say sophisticated radios sold by an Australian firm are being used by Burma 's military despite an Australian embargo against military sales to the east Asian nation .
Australian media reported Tuesday that the Perth-based firm Barrett Communications has sold about 50 radio sets to the Burmese government .
Company officials confirmed the sale , but said they were commercially-available , civilian radios and not intended for military use .
The radios have an advanced feature that prevents transmissions from being monitored .
Australian Senator Scott Ludlam issued a statement Tuesday condemning the sale of the radios and called for a freeze on all future sales .
In his statement , Ludlam said international monitors that watch Burma say the radios have been used in recent months by the Burmese army as they have waged brutal wars against ethnic minorities and pro-democracy forces .
Egypt 's Health Ministry says a 26-year-old woman has died from bird flu , the third death from the disease in less than one week .
In a statement , the ministry said the woman , from Menoufia province in the Nile Delta , was admitted to a hospital on Saturday and died Monday .
A Health Ministry official said the victim was exposed to poultry infected with bird flu .
The woman was the 18th bird flu fatality in Egypt and the country 's 43nd human infection since the virus appeared there in February 2006 .
Egypt 's location on major bird migration routes and the widespread practice of keeping domestic fowl near living quarters have helped make it the hardest-hit country outside of Asia .
Officials from top oil-producing nations have promised to try to cut soaring oil prices when they meet in Vienna on Wednesday .
Leaders from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said Tuesday they are likely to agree to raise daily output by a 500,000 barrels .
But some analysts say the increase will do little to cut prices , currently around the $ 55 mark .
Meantime , Saudi Arabia 's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi called on developed nations to build more oil refineries to help satisfy their growing needs for gasoline .
U.S. President Barack Obama says building a strong middle class is key to helping the country heal its economy .
In his weekly address Saturday , Mr. Obama said the upcoming Labor Day holiday is a chance to reaffirm a commitment to American workers .
The president touted some of his administration 's initiatives , including tax cuts for working families and investment in construction projects that he says will create jobs .
His address followed a new report showing the U.S. unemployment rate rose last month to 9.6 percent , although private employers added about 67,000 jobs .
In the weekly Republican Party address , U.S. Representative Geoff Davis called for greater scrutiny of federal rules and regulations he said are a burden to small business owners .
Davis has introduced legislation that would have Congress vote on rules proposed by federal agencies if the regulations are expected to have an economic impact greater than $ 100 million .
Tempers flared in the Iraqi parliament when Shi'ite lawmakers tried to force debate on designating autonomous regions in the country .
The Shi'ite lawmakers tried to discuss their proposal during a stormy session Thursday .
But they were cut off by the speaker of parliament , Mahmoud al-Mashhadani , who said he had not seen the proposal .
The Shi'ites , who dominate parliament , want to establish an autonomous region in southern Iraq , modeled after the Kurdish north .
Sunni Arabs , who fear the proposal could split the country , are concentrated in the resource-poor central and western Iraq .
Northern and southern Iraq are rich in oil .
Iraq 's constitution , which was approved last year , enshrines federalism and allows for the creation of autonomous regions .
The nation 's official measurer does some really cool stuff One giant room on the NIST campus is filled with exotic milling , machining , and other industrial equipment .
Here , specialists make instruments for NIST researchers , who in turn test everything from bullets to football helmets .
They invent things , too .
NIST scientists developed a device that turns computer documents and electronic messages into Braille for the sight-impaired .
These days , NIST is especially hard at work on nanotechnology , cybersecurity , and efforts to create a nationwide " smart " electric grid .
The agency that standardized fire hoses and once re-measured and corrected the exact length of a meter has a brand-new complex that is testing and measuring matter as small as an atom .
Martina Hingis , the former world-number-one tennis star , is making her long-awaited return to competition at Australia 's Hardcourt Championships next month .
The 25-year-old Swiss player is ending her three-year retirement by entering the tournament , which begins on New Year 's Day .
Hingis left the professional tennis circuit in 2002 after suffering a series of injuries .
She said Tuesday , she 's very excited to be making her comeback in Australia , where she has always felt at home .
The Australian Gold Coast tournament will help Hingis prepare for next month 's Australian Open , which she has won three times before .
The Swiss champion has won 40 singles titles and 36 doubles events in her career .
Organizers of the Dakar Rally have cancelled the 12th stage in the motorcycle section so riders can mourn the death of Italian Fabrizio Meoni .
Cars and trucks are still competing in the leg , which runs from Kiffa , Mauritania to Bamako , Mali .
The motorcyclists will be flown to Bamako .
Meoni won the Dakar motorcycle title in 2001 and 2002 .
Before he died Tuesday , the Italian rider was in second place overall behind French rider Cyril Despres .
Meoni , known as the Lion of the Desert , was killed in a crash one day after Spain 's Jose Manuel Perez died from severe injuries sustained in a crash during last Thursday 's seventh stage .
The KTM Motorcycle team is urging its riders to withdraw from the rally , but has left that decision to the individual riders .
The 8956-kilometer rally ends in Dakar , Senegal on Sunday .
The U.N. Human Rights Commission has adopted a resolution condemning human rights abuses in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
The resolution , passed by consensus Thursday without a formal vote , blames both pro-government Arab militia and rebels in Darfur for the violations .
The Associated Press reports the measure specifically condemns the violence against civilians , sexual violence against women and girls , and the destruction of villages .
It was approved after the European Union withdrew a more strongly worded document that would have condemned the Sudanese government for its role in the violence .
Khartoum is accused of backing Arab militia fighting rebels in Darfur .
The United Nations estimates the conflict has left 180,000 dead and more than two million others displaced .
Venezuelan police have shot to death a second person linked to the killing of a top government prosecutor .
Authorities say the suspect was killed Thursday , in a gunfight at a motel in western Venezuela .
Authorities also say they found explosives in his car .
Both the man and a lawyer killed in a gunfight with police on Tuesday were suspected in the November 18 murder of prosecutor Danilo Anderson .
He was killed when explosions ripped through his car as he drove through the Venezuelan capital .
Mr. Anderson had been overseeing a case against hundreds of opposition politicians , businessmen and former military officers involved in a 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
Chinese state media say a court in Tibet has imprisoned 17 people for terms of three years to life for their roles in deadly riots and violence in the region last month .
The official Xinhua news agency did not give any other details on the Lhasa court ruling in a brief dispatch Tuesday .
Tibet 's Indian-based government-in-exile says more than 150 people died in a crackdown by Chinese forces on anti-government protesters and rioters .
China blames Tibetan rioters for the deaths of at least 20 people .
China has ruled Tibet for nearly 60 years .
The Communist Party says it freed Tibetans from what it calls " the dark ages " of feudal serfdom .
But refugees accuse Chinese authorities of discrimination and of trying to dilute Tibetan culture .
Iraqi police say a roadside bomb exploded Thursday near a convoy carrying Abed Theyab , the country 's higher education minister .
Theyab escaped unhurt .
Officials say the blast occurred in central Baghdad .
At least two civilians were wounded in the attack .
Another roadside bomb blast in central Baghdad today killed an Iraqi security official .
Violence in Iraq has fallen sharply in recent months , but roadside bomb attacks are still a daily occurrence , often targeting soldiers , police and government officials .
Insurgents in Iraq have released a videotape of eight Chinese men allegedly being held as hostages .
In the video , aired by al-Jazeera television Tuesday , the insurgents threaten to kill the hostages unless China " clarifies its role in Iraq " within 48 hours .
The abductors say the captured men worked for a Chinese company helping to build American facilities in Iraq .
Meanwhile , a Vatican spokesman says kidnappers have freed the archbishop Basile Georges Casmoussa of the Syrian Catholic Church in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul .
The spokesman said no ransom was paid for the release of the cleric , who was kidnapped Monday .
A report in Wednesday 's Washington Post newspaper says the CIA has been holding and interrogating some of its most important al Qaida terror suspects at a secret Soviet-era compound in Eastern Europe .
The Post says the facility is part of a secret detention system set up by the intelligence agency in the aftermath of September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
It says the facilities , referred to as " black sites " in classified government documents , have also been located in such countries as Thailand and Afghanistan .
The newspaper says it learned of the secret prison system from U.S. and foreign officials familiar with the arrangements .
The CIA routinely refuses to comment on such issues .
There has been a global shift in dietary habits towards calorie rich foods , as well as a universal decrease in exercise .
By and large , the world 's population is getting fat .
Losing that weight is not as easy as it is to put on .
But VOA 's Melinda Smith has more on a recent study that uses a simple tool to help those who need to lose weight .
The U.S. Peace Corps has evacuated 16 volunteers and suspended operations in the Caribbean island nation of Haiti amid escalating violence and security concerns .
The withdrawal of the Peace Corps team comes three weeks after the U.S. Department of State issued a travel warning that ordered all non-emergency personnel and U.S. Embassy families to leave Haiti immediately .
The State Department warns of spontaneous violent confrontations between armed groups and an absence of an effective police force in much of Haiti .
Two U.N. peacekeepers from Peru were wounded Thursday when their armored patrol vehicle was attacked by armed gunmen .
More than 700 people , including 40 police officers , have been killed in Haiti since September .
Swedish filmmaker Ingmar Bergman was buried Saturday on his home island in the Baltic Sea .
Family members and close friends , including actresses Live Ullman and Bibi Andersson , attended the private funeral on Faro Island .
Bergman made more than 50 films and is considered one of the most influential directors of the 20th century .
His films , including " Wild Strawberries , " " Cries and Whispers " and " Scenes from a Marriage " explored human relationships , mortality and madness and were tinged with melancholy , anger , and humor .
" The Seventh Seal " includes one of cinema 's most iconic images - a medieval knight playing chess with a person representing Death while the plague rages around them .
Bergman died on July 30 at the age of 89 .
Romanian President Traian Basescu says authorities are working at home and abroad to free three Romanian journalists who were apparently kidnapped in Iraq .
Mr. Basescu 's comments Wednesday came two days after 32-year-old reporter Marie-Jeanne Ion , 30-year-old cameraman Sorin Dumitru Miscoci and 37-year-old reporter Ovidiu Ohanesian disappeared in Iraq .
Ms. Ion managed to send a quick telephone message to her newsroom saying she and the others were being kidnapped .
Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu says Romanian authorities have not received a ransom demand .
A MAN committed a murder , and was pursued by the relations of the man whom he murdered .
On his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid , climbed up a tree .
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree , and again being greatly alarmed , he threw himself into the river , where a crocodile caught him and ate him .
Thus the earth , the air , and the water alike refused shelter to a murderer .
A fuel shortage is gripping parts of the southeastern U.S. , after two hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico forced oil companies to shut down refineries for a time .
The shortage began earlier this month after Hurricanes Gustav and Ike forced oil refineries to halt production .
Weeks later , many refineries are still producing fuel at reduced levels .
The southeastern U.S. is being hit with higher fuel costs , long lines at filling stations and the widespread closure of gas stations .
Officials in the region say some motorists fear the shortage will continue and are stockpiling fuel .
Authorities say that is driving up demand , especially in the hard-hit states of Georgia , Tennessee and North Carolina .
Consumers have had to wait in line for hours at some gas stations .
Other service stations have put up " No Gas " signs and have placed plastic bags over fuel-pump nozzles .
President Bush has signed an executive order freezing the U.S. assets of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and nine other senior government officials in the former Soviet republic .
The move bars Americans and U.S. companies from doing business with any of the officials .
White House spokesman Tony Snow said in a statement Monday that the Lukashenko government is corrupt and responsible for human rights abuses as well as undermining Belarusian democracy .
President Bush told Congress when he announced his decision to freeze Belarusian assets that there is no place in Europe for such a regime .
The European Union froze Lukashenko assets last month and joined the United States in imposing a travel ban on Belarusian senior government officials .
President Lukashenko was elected to a third term in March in a vote the West calls a fraud .
Mr. Bush has called him Europe 's last dictator .
Winning the women 's European football championship has given Germany sole possession of first place in the latest FIFA world rankings for women .
Previously , the Germans shared the top spot with the United States , which is now second .
Germany defeated third-ranked Norway last Sunday in the European final , 3-1 .
Brazil is the fourth ranked women 's team and France is fifth .
Rounding out the latest top 10 are Sweden , South Korea , China , Denmark and Italy .
The chief of Peru 's prisons has resigned after newspaper allegations that he betrayed the identities of two undercover agents working for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration .
Benedicto Jimenez strongly denied the reports in Peru 's El~Commercio newspaper , but handed in his resignation anyway .
The newspaper alleged that Jimenez tipped off jailed drug trafficker Fernando Zevallos that he was under investigation by two agents working with U.S. drug officials .
Neither the Peruvian nor U.S. governments have commented .
Burma 's opposition National League for Democracy party is marking its 17th anniversary with another call for the release of its leader , Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners .
About 300 party supporters , along with foreign diplomats , UN officials , representatives of other political parties and the media attended a low-key ceremon Tuesday , at party headquarters in Rangoon .
During the ceremony , NLD members read a statement calling for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi , party vice chairman Tin Oo and all other political prisoners .
The NLD was founded in 1988 after widespread pro-democracy demonstrations were violently suppressed by the military .
The military government held a general election in 1990 , but refused to hand over power after a landslide victory by the NLD .
Afghan president Hamid Karzai has announced a program to recruit tribesmen in border areas to augment security forces doing battle with the Taleban .
Mr. Karzai said Sunday in a speech to tribal elders from eastern provinces that he does not want to form militias .
The purpose of recruiting civilians , he said , was to strengthen the districts against terrorist attack .
He said the additional forces would be under government command .
Meanwhile , officials in London said a British soldier was killed and two others seriously wounded in a firefight with suspected Taleban forces in Helmand province .
The U.S. military said a coalition soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in Ghazni province .
Also Sunday , unidentified gunmen killed four Afghan road workers in Kandahar .
Local officials said the men were also robbed of several thousand dollars .
Residents in the western U.S. state of Colorado are struggling to cope with their third huge snowstorm in as many weeks .
Forecasters say as much as 20 centimeters of snow is expected to fall on the city of Denver Saturday , while the state 's rural southeastern region could get five centimeters of snow on top of what already covers the ground .
The new storm is carrying winds up to 50 kilometers an hour , hampering efforts by the National Guard to airdrop hay bales to feed cattle stranded on snow-packed pastures .
The animals could die of starvation or dehydration if not fed .
The state has still not recovered from two consecutive snowstorms last month .
The first one stranded thousands of passengers traveling in and out of Denver 's airport just days before the Christmas holiday .
Pakistani police say gunmen have shot and killed a Pakistani intelligence official as he left a mosque following Friday prayers .
Police say the suspects shot the official Friday in Charsadda in northwestern Pakistan and fled in a car .
The motive for today 's killing was not immediately known .
It took place in a region where pro-Taliban militants are active .
This is the third Pakistani intelligence official to be killed in recent weeks .
Two were shot and killed late last month in the southern port city of Karachi .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has rejected U.S. charges that he and Cuban President Fidel Castro are destabilizing forces in Latin America .
Mr. Chavez said in his weekly radio and television show Sunday that U.S. imperialism is , in his words , " the greatest threat " facing the world .
Last week U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said that Venezuela and Cuba had negatively influenced events in Bolivia , where social uprisings have forced out two presidents in less than two years .
Mr. Chavez and Mr. Castro were shown side by side during the show .
Mr. Chavez had traveled to Cuba to attend the graduation Saturday of over 1,500 medical students who had studied for free on condition they would return to their communities to work .
Authorities in Indonesia say they have uncovered evidence that Islamic militants captured in a series of recent raids had planned to kill President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono .
National Police Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri told reporters in Jakarta Friday the militants planned to declare a Muslim state after killing Mr. Yudhoyono , state officials and foreign guests during an independence day celebration on August 17 .
Danuri said the militants also planned to seize several luxury hotels in Jakarta and Java island and kill foreigners , including Americans .
The hotel attacks would be similar to the November 2008 siege of hotels in Mumbai that killed 166 people .
The police chief says the plots were uncovered during a series of raids across Indonesia since February , when a terrorist training facility was discovered in the Sumatran island province of Aceh .
A Shi'ite militant group in Iraq has released a video of a man it apparently kidnapped , and who appears to be a U.S. contractor who disappeared last month .
The video posted on the Internet shows a man wearing a U.S. military uniform .
He is sitting in front of a flag inscribed with the name of the militant group - League of the Righteous .
On Friday , the U.S. Department of Defense said a 60-year-old American contractor Issa T .
Salomi had disappeared on January 23 , and that search efforts were under way .
The man in the video does not identify himself .
He reads the group 's demands , which include the release of Iraqi prisoners and the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq .
The group also calls for U.S. security contractors with the firm Blackwater to be brought to justice for crimes against Iraqis .
NASA scientists say they are " flabbergasted " to find that soil on Mars appears rich enough to grow such Earth-bound plants as asparagus .
U.S. space researchers revealed the results of their first " wet " chemical analysis of Martian dirt Thursday and said it is not as acidic as expected , appearing to have the requirements and nutrients to support life .
The sample was taken two weeks ago by the Mars Lander Phoenix , then heated to over 538 degrees Celsius .
At that point , the sample released water vapor .
The scientists said the the dirt is similar to that in a typical backyard .
As exciting as the scientists find the discovery , they point out that they can study only the chemistry of Mars , not whether anything has ever lived there .
Insurgents seeking to disrupt Iraq 's national elections later this month have killed another election official , bringing to at least seven the number of election workers killed in recent weeks .
Police say the election supervisor was shot as he left a Baghdad polling station Thursday .
Also Thursday , three officials from a leading Kurdish political party were killed in an ambush in Mosul , and a U.S. soldier was killed and three were wounded in a roadside bomb blast .
Earlier Friday , a minibus full of civilians collided with a U.S. tank north of Baghdad , killing six Iraqis and injuring eight .
And in a separate development , Iraqi and U.S. officials say 28 prisoners from the Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad escaped Thursday night while being transported to another facility .
None of them are suspected insurgents .
Country Singer Kenny Chesney was named the Entertainer of the Year and took the Album of the Year award at the Country Music Association 's Annual Awards ceremony in Nashville , Tennessee late Tuesday .
Singer Martina McBride was named Female Vocalist of the Year .
The Song of the Year and Single of the Year awards went to the song " Live like you Were Dying , " written by Tim Nichols and Craig Wiseman and peformed by Tim McGraw .
Gretchen Wilson was the winner of the Horizon Award for best new artist .
Her debut album Here For the Party sold three million copies this year .
Also during the nationally televised program , singer - songwriter Kris Kristofferson was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame .
Interpol says more than 5,000 people across Asia have been arrested in a coordinated crackdown on illegal gambling during the World Cup .
The Paris-based police organization said Friday that almost $ 10 million was seized during the raids on nearly 800 gambling dens in China , Malaysia , Singapore and Thailand .
Sites in Hong Kong and Macau also were raided .
Police targeted betting shops with links to organized crime .
Interpol said the raided shops had handled bets totaling more than $ 150 million .
The crackdown took place between June 11 and July 11 to coincide with the World Cup competition , which captured the attention of millions of sports fans around the world .
Interpol said illegal football ( soccer ) gambling is linked with corruption , money-laundering and prostitution .
It said the operation should have an impact on all of those activities .
A University of Washington biologist working with the World Conservation Society says penguin populations have been declining steadily in the southern regions of South America .
In a recently published study , Dee Boersma says life is not going to get any easier for the creatures , because they have to withstand both climate variation and human development .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
Indigenous demonstrators raise their arms during protest in La Paz
Officials in Bolivia say early presidential and congressional elections will be held on December 4 .
The election date was set after both houses of Bolivia 's Congress approved the plan to call early elections .
In addition , lawmakers also endorsed a measure to reform the constitution and a hold a referendum on regional autonomy .
Last month , farmers , miners and labor groups held huge protests demanding nationalization of Bolivia 's oil industry and new elections .
The protests led to the resignation of President Carlos Mesa .
Chief Justice Eduardo Rodriguez has been serving as interim president .
U.S. Senator and former Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry has visited American troops in Iraq while on a two-day fact-finding visit to the war-torn country .
Senator Kerry was often critical of the Bush administration 's Iraq policy during the U.S. presidential race .
He told reporters that he wants to see for himself whether Iraq is moving toward stability or deeper into chaos .
The senator arrived in Iraq Wednesday and spent time with soldiers from his home state of Massachusetts at Camp al-Tahreer in Baghdad .
He declined to compare the insurgency in Iraq with the one he faced in Vietnam as a Navy lieutenant 30 years ago .
He also made a stop in neighboring Jordan , where he met with King Abdullah .
The upper house of the U.S. Congress has approved $ 300 million to help victims of violence in west Sudan 's Darfur region and support peace talks between the Khartoum government and southern rebels .
The senate bill , passed Tuesday , also calls for sanctions on Sudan 's government and authorizes money for the deployment of more African peacekeepers in Darfur .
Earlier , a top U.N. official warned of impending chaos in the Darfur region - blaming both the Khartoum government and rebels for the worsening situation in the 22-month conflict .
Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Richard Lugar said the Darfur crisis shows the " importance of a long-term investment in Africa 's future . "
Burma 's military government has sentenced a senior opposition National League for Democracy figure to an additional 60-day prison term , just as he completed a seven-year sentence for alleged corruption .
The wife of opposition leader Than Nyein , Khin Aye , told VOA Monday the family had expected him to be released along with other political prisoners on Friday .
Last week , military rulers began releasing nearly 4,000 prisoners they said were wrongly detained by the recently disbanded National Intelligence Bureau .
Sources in Rangoon told VOA Monday that only a few hundred prisoners , including key opposition figure Min Ko Naing , have been released .
They say no detainees were released on Monday .
There are about 20 political prisoners held in Burmese jails , including three elderly members of parliament .
Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi and her top deputy , Tin Oo , remain under house arrest .
Pakistan says it will soon free 700 Indian fishermen and civilian prisoners , after President Pervez Musharraf ordered their release on humanitarian grounds .
A foreign office spokesman told reporters that the process of their release has already been initiated and they will be released soon .
General Musharraf last week recommended that 800 Indian fishermen should be freed after completing legal formalities .
He also ordered the release of nearly 150 civilians , including 31 Indian Sikhs held after crossing from Iran .
The military leader intervened after an appeal by visiting Indian communist leaders .
The move is one of a series of peace gestures between India and Pakistan .
The nuclear-armed rivals often arrest fishermen for straying into each other 's territorial waters or villagers who inadvertently cross land borders .
Human Rights Watch is calling on Hezbollah militants in Lebanon to immediately stop firing rockets into civilian areas in Israel , referring to the attacks as " war crimes . "
A statement issued Saturday by the New York-based organization says militants have launched 2,500 rockets into mostly civilian areas in northern Israel since July 12 .
The organization has also documented the Israeli military 's use of force that has killed hundreds of Lebanese civilians .
But it says crimes by one side in a conflict never justify crimes by another .
Human Rights Watch said Hezbollah militants claim that some of their attacks are aimed at military bases in Israel .
But the rights organization says most attacks appear to be directed at civilian areas such as hospitals , schools and businesses .
Roadside bombs , checkpoint attacks and gunbattles with militants in southern and eastern Afghanistan have killed at least 10 Afghan police officers and five NATO coalition soldiers .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb in the southern city of Kandahar killed a district police chief and two others riding with him in his vehicle on Tuesday .
The Interior Ministry says another roadside bomb Tuesday killed four police officers in Wardak province , just west of Kabul .
In Ghazni province , south of Kabul , local police say militants attacked a checkpoint , killing five officers .
Britain 's Defense Ministry says two British soldiers were shot dead Tuesday in separate incidents in southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province .
A third British soldier died from injuries suffered in combat days ago in Helmand province .
NATO says two other coalition soldiers died in a gunbattle in eastern Afghanistan Tuesday , but did not reveal the service members ' nationalities .
An influential Iranian cleric has called for the arrest of opposition leaders for their role in demonstrations following June 's controversial presidential election .
Hard-line cleric Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati told worshippers at Friday prayers in Tehran that those leaders incited post-election " riots " that resulted in the deaths of at least 30 people .
He did not mention anyone by name .
Jannati , who heads Iran 's powerful Guardian Council , said arresting those responsible is the " first thing " that must be done .
The opposition contends that the June 12 election was fraudulent .
Defeated presidential candidates Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi have called for new elections , sparking the ire of backers of re-elected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Rights groups say hundreds of activists have been detained since the post-election crisis , and that many are still in jail .
Police in Nepal Thursday detained at least 760 Tibetan exiles who were protesting outside the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu .
Witnesses say police scuffled with some protesters , many of whom were hauled away in police trucks .
Nepal is home to about 20,000 Tibetans who fled their homeland after a failed uprising against Chinese rule in 1959 .
Exiles have been staging near-daily protests since March , when Chinese forces brutally suppressed demonstrations in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa .
Activists have intensified anti-China protests recently , to coincide with the Olympic Games in Beijing .
On Friday , the night of the Olympics opening ceremony , Nepalese authorities detained some 1,300 protesters in Kathmandu .
Indian and Pakistani officials have met in Islamabad to discuss opening their disputed Kashmir border to help relief efforts for victims of the massive earthquake that killed some 55,000 people .
Foreign ministry officials from the two sides were to discuss allowing Kashmiris to cross the heavily militarized Line of Control , the cease-fire line that divides the Himalayan region that the South Asian rivals have fought two wars over .
Both governments have expressed a willingness to open the border but have failed to resolve differences on how to do it .
U.N. officials say opening the border could help the relief effort - which has been hampered by funding shortages .
Meanwhile , the U.S. Geological Survey says a 5.5 magnitude aftershock struck northern Pakistan early Saturday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
Iran 's civil aviation organization says it has asked the United States to resume direct flights between the two countries that were suspended more than 25 years ago .
Iranian civil aviation officials say they sent a letter to their U.S. counterparts on Wednesday .
They say President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad decided to propose the resumption in response to a request from Iranians living in the United States and Canada .
The request was made in September when Mr. Ahmadinejad attended a U.N. session in New York .
There was no immediate U.S. response .
Iranian airliners have been barred from the United States since Washington broke ties with Tehran , following the 1979 Islamic revolution .
The U.S. Agency for International Development ( USAID ) says it will donate nearly $ 840,000 to Catholic Relief Services to help alleviate Malawi 's severe food shortage .
The agency says the money will provide seeds and fertilizer that small farming households can use for planting in coming weeks .
In September , it promised $ 400,000 to the U.N. Children 's Fund to monitor the nutritional status of Malawi 's children .
The U.S government agency has already donated more than 50,000 metric tons of food to Malawi through the U.N. World Food Program .
Experts say poor rainfall across Malawi this year , combined with inadequate supplies of fertilizer , adversely affected the country 's staple corn ( maize ) crop .
In October , the government declared a national disaster and appealed for help .
Aid agencies say five million of Malawi 's 12 million people need food aid .
A human rights group is calling on the United States to investigate what it calls " newly uncovered " deaths of U.S-led coalition prisoners in Afghanistan .
In an open letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , Human Rights Watch says the newly uncovered cases highlight the U.S. government 's failure to establish accountability for abuses .
Earlier , Human Rights Watch had identified three cases , including that of Sher Mohammad Khan who died one day after he was arrested in September during a raid on his family 's home near the eastern city of Khost .
But now the rights watchdog has identified two more unreported deaths , taking the toll of deaths in U.S. custody in Afghanistan to six .
The group says four of these cases fall in the category of alleged murder or manslaughter .
President Bush has called again for Congress to approve an immigration reform bill , after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid pulled the measure off the agenda earlier this week .
In his weekly radio address , President Bush said he understands the skepticism some members of Congress have about certain parts of the legislation .
He emphasized that the bill does not provide amnesty to illegal immigrants .
He said to stay in the country , illegal immigrants must pay a fine , undergo background checks , register with the government , and wait eight years before applying for legal status .
Senators rejected Reid 's effort earlier this week to limit negotiations and schedule a final vote on the bill .
Reid blamed Republicans for the failure , while Republicans said Democrats were trying to rush the bill toward final passage .
Police in Afghanistan say 25 Taleban rebels and four security guards were killed when insurgents ambushed a private convoy in the western part of the country .
The attack took place late Friday in the Bakwa district of western Farah province .
In other news , NATO artillery rounds killed one Afghan civilian and wounded five others in the country 's eastern Kunar province Saturday .
It is not clear if the artillery fire was aimed at insurgents or part of a military exercise .
Aid groups say that more than 230 Afghan civilians have been killed this year in operations by NATO and U.S.-led troops .
NATO officials have said they are reviewing military operations in Afghanistan to prevent the killing of civilians
Iraqi officials say a suicide car bomber has struck an army recruitment center in Baghdad , killing at least four people and wounding more than 30 others .
Al-Qaida-linked insurgents claimed responsibility .
West of the capital , authorities say insurgents opened fire Tuesday on Iraqi soldiers in the town of Khalidiyah , killing four troops and wounding several others .
Separately , gunmen shot and killed a Baghdad university professor and his son in Baghdad , as the academic drove to work .
Meanwhile , the Iraqi parliament adjourned today for about an hour , to protest the alleged mistreatment of a lawmaker at a U.S. checkpoint in Baghdad .
The U.S. military said it is investigating the incident .
Iraqi politicians continue talks on forming a new government .
Some lawmakers say they expect a government to be announced by the end of the week .
Some infromation for this report provided by AFP , AP and Reuters .
Taiwan has severed diplomatic ties with Senegal and stopped aid to the west African country following its decision to re-establish diplomatic relations with the Beijing government .
A statement by Taiwan 's Foreign Ministry late Tuesday said Taiwan will immediately suspend all aid programs to Senegal in order to protect its " dignity and sovereignty . "
On Tuesday , Senegal and China issued a joint statement saying the Senegalese government recognizes one China , and that Taiwan is an inseparable part of that territory .
Without Senegal , Taiwan is now officially recognized by 25 , mostly small , nations .
Taiwan and China split in 1949 , after civil war .
Beijing still considers it part of its territory and has vowed to use force , if necessary , to prevent the island from taking formal steps toward independence .
New Orleans is set to host its first major professional sporting event since Hurricane Katrina struck last August .
The National Basketball Association 's New Orleans Hornets return to their home city to play the Los Angeles Lakers .
The team will play only two more games in the devastated city this season and only six next season .
The Hornets have established a temporary home in Oklahoma City .
Wednesday night 's game against the Lakers will be played in the New Orleans Arena in front of a capacity crowd of about 17,000 , including NBA Commissioner David Stern .
The arena was used as a shelter for evacuees during the hurricane and it suffered some flood damage .
The Hornets average attendance this season is nearly 4,000 more than last season , but the team 's owner says he still plans to return the team to New Orleans for the 2007 - 2008 season .
Several people have been killed in a gunbattle in Nigeria between government soldiers and heavily armed militants who attacked an oil pumping station .
Brigadier General Elias Zamani said some of his men and some of the attackers were killed in the shootout , which began Sunday morning at a Royal Dutch Shell facility at Benisede in the Niger delta .
Shell said some of its workers had been injured .
According to Shell , the attackers arrived in speedboats , burned down staff living quarters , damaged the facility and left .
On Wednesday , attackers bombed a pipeline near Benisede and kidnapped four foreign oil workers - an American , a Briton , a Bulgarian and a Honduran - from a nearby Shell platform .
Negotiations are underway for their release .
Shell says it is evacuating its workers from Benisede because of the insecurity in the area .
South American leaders have held a summit in Quito , Ecuador to discuss coordinating aid efforts in earthquake-devastated Haiti .
Members of the Union of South American Nations ( UNASUR ) gathered Tuesday for the talks .
The group includes the presidents of Colombia , Peru , Paraguay and host nation Ecuador , among others .
Haitian President Rene Preval attended the meeting , which took place exactly four weeks after the earthquake struck Haiti , leaving an estimated 200,000 people dead and about one million others homeless .
The gathering was to have included Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , but he canceled at the last minute .
Mr. Chavez has criticized the U.S. aid operation in Haiti .
He has also had disagreements with Colombia over its decision to allow the U.S. access to seven military bases for anti-drug operations .
Peruvian President Alan Garcia Tuesday said he hoped the region could work together as a bloc to help Haiti .
Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands has easily won the final of the women 's Hobart International tennis tournament in Australia .
The unseeded Krajicek broke the serve of fifth-seeded Czech Iveta Benesova five times en route to a 6-2 , 6-1 victory .
Krajicek called it one of the best matches of her career , while Benesova apologized to the crowd for her lackluster performance .
Benesova later said four tough matches in the tournament 's opening rounds had taken their toll on her .
Krajicek celebrates this tournament win the same week she celebrated her 17th birthday .
She is the half sister of 1996 Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek and she credits him with helping her tennis game during the last year .
Egyptian and Palestinian officials meet Tuesday with militant Palestinian leaders in Cairo , for talks aimed at consolidating a de-facto ceasefire with Israel .
Delegates were to review a proposal put forward by Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas and backed by Egypt for a one-year truce , during which all factions would agree to halt attacks on Israeli targets .
However , some delegates say such a deal would require more significant Israeli concessions .
Ahead of the talks , Western news reports quoted militant leaders as saying they will not agree to a long-term ceasefire unless Israel promises to end incursions into Palestinian towns , and the targeted killings of militant leaders .
For its part , Israel says a ceasefire must be accompanied by a Palestinian move to disarm and dismantle militant groups .
United Nations officials say an Afghan driver and a doctor with a German aid agency were killed when their UNICEF vehicle was hit in a rocket attack .
A U.N. staffer was severely injured in the attack , which took place Friday near the eastern Afghan town of Herat .
The vehicle was returning from a routine mission in Badghis province with the three men on board .
Taleban rebels launch regular attacks on Afghan and foreign forces , reconstruction projects , non-governmental organizations and government officials , but most of the violence is in the south and southeast of the country .
In April , unidentified attackers stormed a health clinic in Badghis , gunning down five people .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is in the United States to rally support from Jewish groups for the planned Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Sharon will have a series of meetings in New York and then address a prominent lobbying group , the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee , Tuesday in Washington .
No meetings with U.S. officials are planned .
On the flight to New York , Mr. Sharon said he will not postpone the start of the pullout from mid-August , despite Israeli reports that his military chiefs want to delay because of recent Palestinian attacks on settlers in Gaza .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas arrives in Washington later this week , at the invitation of President Bush .
Mr. Abbas says he will push for political and economic support when he visits the White House Thursday .
Part of Romania during the interwar period , Moldova was incorporated into the Soviet Union at the close of World War II .
Although the country has been independent from the USSR since 1991 , Russian forces have remained on Moldovan territory east of the Dniester River supporting the Slavic majority population , mostly Ukrainians and Russians , who have proclaimed a " Transnistria " republic .
One of the poorest nations in Europe , Moldova became the first former Soviet state to elect a Communist , Vladimir VORONIN , as its president in 2001 .
VORONIN served as Moldova 's president until he resigned in September 2009 , following the opposition 's gain of a narrow majority in July parliamentary elections and the Communist Party 's ( PCRM ) subsequent inability to attract the three-fifths of parliamentary votes required to elect a president .
Moldova 's four opposition parties formed a new coalition , the Alliance for European Integration ( AIE ) , which acted as Moldova 's governing coalition until December 2010 .
Moldova experienced significant political uncertainty in 2009 and 2010 , holding three general elections ( in April 2009 , July 2009 , and November 2010 ) and four presidential ballots in parliament , all of which failed to secure a president .
Following the November 2010 parliamentary elections , a reconstituted AIE-coalition of three parties formed a government , but remains two votes short of the three-fifths majority required to elect a president .
Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in the Caribbean region .
A diverse industrial sector has far surpassed agriculture as the primary locus of economic activity and income .
Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives , US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s .
US minimum wage laws apply .
Sugar production has lost out to dairy production and other livestock products as the main source of income in the agricultural sector .
Tourism has traditionally been an important source of income with estimated arrivals of more than 3.6 million tourists in 2008 .
Iraqi lawmakers loyal to radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr say they have pulled out of parliament 's ruling Shi'ite coalition .
Al-Sadr 's parliamentary bloc said late Saturday it decided to quit Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's United Iraqi Alliance because the government had not responded to its demands .
Earlier this week , pro-al-Sadr lawmakers threatened to withdraw from the ruling alliance unless the government improved security and public services .
Al-Sadr 's faction controls 30 seats in Iraq 's 275-member parliament .
Another Iraqi Shi'ite movement , the Fadhila Party , withdrew its 15 seats from the United Iraqi Alliance in March due to a dispute about Cabinet seats .
Moqtada al-Sadr pulled his six ministers out of Iraq 's Cabinet in April when Prime Minister Maliki refused to set a timetable for U.S. troops to leave Iraq .
Afghan officials have released an American imprisoned in 2004 for running a private jail .
After serving more than two years of a three-year sentence , Brent Bennett was freed and flown out of Afghanistan on Saturday .
Bennett was one of three Americans convicted of torturing Afghan suspects in a vigilante counter-terrorism operation .
In September 2004 , a Kabul court sentenced one of three , Edwin Caraballo , to eight years in prison while Bennett and alleged ringleader Jonathan Idema received 10-year terms .
In March 2005 , a judge , Abdul Latif , reduced their sentences .
Caraballo was released in April , while Idema has about three years remaining on his reduced sentence .
Idema claimed his operations were coordinated with the U.S. Defense Department and Afghan authorities .
Both governments denied the claim .
Britain 's largest Sunni Muslim group has issued a religious edict condemning the London terrorist bombings calling it part of a perverted ideology .
In this CCTV image , the four London bombers are seen arriving at Luton railway station , July 7 , 2005
The Sunni Council issued a fatwa Sunday , saying the July 7 attacks have no Islamic justification .
The edict condemns all forms of terrorism and those who carry out such attacks .
Suicide bombers attacked three London subway trains and a double-decker bus , killing more than 50 people .
A British newspaper says Britain 's domestic intelligence agency , MI-5 , investigated one of the four suspected bombers last year , but determined he was not a threat and did not put him under surveillance .
British officials had no comment .
Egyptian archaeologists have discovered the mummified remains of a doctor they say lived more than 4,000 years ago .
In an interview with official state media , Egypt 's government antiquities chief , Zahi Hawass , says archaeologists found the mummy in Saqqara , south of Cairo , during cleaning work .
He says the doctor , whose name was Qar , was buried along with bronze surgical instruments , earthenware containers bearing his name and 22 bronze statues of gods .
Hawass says the mummy and the decorations on the lid of the wooden sarcophagus are well-preserved and in ideal condition .
Archaeologists first discovered the tomb in 2000 , but did not find the sarcophagus until recently .
Zambia has deported a terrorism suspect to Britain .
British citizen Haroon Rashid Aswat was put on a plane to London from Lusaka Sunday morning .
He had been in Zambian custody since July 20 .
Media reports have linked him to the fatal bombings on London 's transit system on July 7 , but British authorities have not confirmed this .
Mr. Aswat is wanted in the United States in connection with an alleged attempt to set up a terrorist training camp in the western state of Oregon .
He spent time in South Africa and Botswana before entering Zambia in early July .
Football 's world governing body has threatened to ban Nigeria from international competition unless the country 's sports ministry repeals two recent appointments to the Nigeria Football Association .
FIFA is unhappy that Nigerian Sports Minister Musa Mohammed appointed Segun Odegbami as interim secretary-general of the NFA and Salisu Abubakar as secretary of the Nigerian Premier League board on December 21 .
In a letter sent to the Confederation of African Football and the Nigeria Football Association , FIFA said the two appointments are in direct violation of Article 17 of the world governing body 's statutes .
Nigeria had promised to repeal a statute known as Decree 101 , which gave the country 's sports ministry the power to appoint the Nigeria Football Association 's secretary-general and several other board members .
FIFA regulations outlaw government interference in the running of national football associations .
Iran 's powerful Guardian Council has warned the opposition to no longer protest the disputed presidential vote , one day after upholding the re-election of incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
A spokesman for the Council , Abbasali Kadkhodai , told reporters Tuesday " the file on the presidential election is closed , " and the government will take action against those who continue to protest the results .
Meanwhile , President Ahmadinejad again criticized foreign powers over their response to the greatest unrest to take place in Iran since the since the 1979 Islamic Revolution .
Hardline Islamic cleric Ahmad Khatami on Tuesday also denounced those still opposing the Guardian 's Council decision as against the government .
Last week , Khatami called for those leading the " rioters " to be punished without mercy .
Defeated presidential candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi has called for the results of the June 12 election to be annulled .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Monday a " huge credibility gap " remains among Iranians about the disputed polls .
Clinton declined to say whether Washington will formally recognize Mr. Ahmadinejad 's re-election , and she would not say whether the post-election unrest has ended U.S. hopes of engaging Iran on its nuclear program and other issues .
London police say religiously motivated hate crimes have soared 600 percent since the July 7 suicide bombings .
Authorities report 269 incidents in the British capital in the three weeks since the attacks .
Only 40 such crimes were reported during the same period last year .
The attacks include verbal and physical assaults and vandalism of property including mosques .
Officials warn that such attacks could alienate the Muslim community at a time when police need its cooperation .
The four bombers in the July 7 attack were Muslims , but many young Muslims say they are angered over police stopping and searching their bags in the subway .
British Home Office official Hazel Blears denied Tuesday that Muslims are being targeted in the searches .
Romanian officials say four new cases of a deadly strain of avian flu have been found in birds in a remote village in the Danube River delta .
Romania 's agriculture minister , Gheorghe Flutur , said British lab tests confirm four dead chickens in the village of Caraorman carried the H5N1 strain of the virus that has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
China 's Agriculture Ministry also confirmed Monday that bird flu was the cause of illness among chickens , ducks , and geese last week in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and central China 's Hubei province .
On Sunday , U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt said it would take the United States at least three to five years to produce 300 million doses of a vaccine to protect Americans from a possible pandemic .
Pope John Paul beatified the last ruler of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and four European nuns and clerics Sunday in an open-air ceremony at St. Peter 's Square in the Vatican .
The Catholic church 's elevation of Habsburg Emperor Charles ( Karl ) has been criticized because he authorized the use of poison gas against Italian troops during World War I .
Also advancing on the road to sainthood today was a 19th century German nun Anne Catherine Emmerick , whose visions inspired director Mel Gibson 's controversial film , " The Passion of the Christ . "
In addition , John Paul beatified Italian nun Maria Ludovica de Angelis , who worked with sick children in Argentina in the mid-20th century , and two French clerics , a 25-year-old monk who died in 1903 and an 18th century priest , who founded an order of nuns .
Beatification is the final step before possible sainthood in the Roman Catholic Church .
Venezuela has exhumed the remains of 19th century independence hero Simon Bolivar for DNA testing to determine if Bolivar was poisoned by his enemies .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez rejects the generally accepted account that Bolivar died of tuberculosis almost 200 years ago in Colombia .
President Chavez believes Bolivar was murdered .
The Venezuelan president became emotional Friday at the exhumation he ordered .
He wrote on his Twitter account that he wept at seeing at what he called Bolivar 's " glorious skeleton . "
National television showed footage of white-clad technicians alongside Bolivar 's coffin .
Earlier this year , Paul Auwaerter , an American scientist from Johns Hopkins University , said he believed arsenic prescribed as a medical treatment contributed to Bolivar 's death .
However , Auwaerter says he does not support the assassination theory and is concerned the Venezuelan government is distorting his research .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has called on the new Palestinian leadership to show it wants peace by ending propaganda against Israel .
Mr. Sharon told members of his Likud political party Thursday that anti-Israel incitement in Palestinian schools and media is more dangerous than any weapon .
He urged the Palestinian leadership to end the demonizing of Israel and Jews , which he called " the root cause of suicide bombings and terrorism . "
In the past , Mr. Sharon has insisted that Palestinian security forces dismantle militant groups before peace talks begin .
Palestinian cabinet minister Saeb Erekat rejected Mr. Sharon 's demand , saying Israel should resume negotiations without preconditions .
Mr. Sharon 's remarks come amid renewed international efforts to restart the Middle East peace process .
The family of a former Iranian defense official has denied that he defected to the West .
Speaking to state media in Tehran , Elham Asghari , the daughter of Ali Reza Asghari accused Israel and the United States of abducting her father .
Asghari 's wife Ziba Ahmadi said her husband had an olive oil business in Syria , and vanished in December while on a trip to Turkey .
Before retiring from the government , Asghari was a deputy defense minister and a commander in the elite Revolutionary Guards .
Last week , an Arab newspaper , Al Sharq al Awsat , reported that Asghari is currently in northern Europe , being debriefed by American intelligence , before flying to the U.S. Western reports suggested that Asghari defected .
An American newspaper , The Washington Post , citing a U.S. official , said Asghari is providing information on Lebanon 's Hezbollah militia .
The head of a World Health Organization team investigating Turkey 's bird flu outbreak says he believes it can be easily brought under control .
Guenael Rodier said Tuesday there is no evidence the disease is being spread by human-to-human contact .
He said the outbreak appears to be similar to what has happened in Asia -- small family groups coming into contact with infected birds .
But health officials worry the growing number of human cases increases the chance of the H5N1 strain mutating into a human strain that can lead to a worldwide pandemic .
Turkish health officials Tuesday confirmed a 15th case of bird flu while Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan assured the nation and Turkey 's neighbors that the outbreak is under control .
Bird flu has killed a Turkish teenager , his sister , and 76 Asians since 2003 .
Iran says it will continue processing uranium , despite European threats to seek U.N. sanctions over Tehran 's suspected push to develop nuclear weapons .
Speaking Sunday , Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said any attempt to seek sanctions will create a no-win situation that will have consequences .
Tehran insists its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
Iran resumed uranium conversion work last month , triggering the collapse of talks with European negotiators offering financial rewards if Iran promised to abandon its nuclear work .
Iran has said President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will suggest ways to resolve the crisis when he arrives in New York for a global summit set for Wednesday .
The 35-member board of the International Atomic Energy Agency convenes next week in Vienna , where it could hear European or U.S. proposals to send the Iran matter to the U.N. Security Council .
Burma 's military junta has begun to dismantle a military intelligence unit formerly headed by disgraced Prime Minister Khin Nyunt .
Former officials say 2,000 of an estimated 10,000 military intelligence members were retired or transferred on Wednesday .
The unit is expected to be completely disbanded by the end of the month .
The National Intelligence Bureau , which was headed for two decades by Khin Nyunt , has been at the center of a wide-ranging purge following his firing and arrest in October on corruption charges .
More than 14,000 prisoners have been released in the past several weeks after the government said they were wrongly imprisoned by military intelligence .
These uninhabited , barren , sub-Antarctic islands were transferred from the UK to Australia in 1947 .
Populated by large numbers of seal and bird species , the islands have been designated a nature preserve .
FBI Director Robert Mueller has asked Congress to renew key provisions of the Patriot Act , a controversial U.S. anti-terrorism law .
The Senate Judiciary Committee is holding the first of several congressional hearings on the Patriot Act Tuesday .
Mr. Mueller and Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales said increased information-sharing powers between law enforcement and foreign intelligence officials is crucial to combat terrorism .
They called on Congress to renew provisions of the law set to expire later this year .
The Patriot Act was signed into law six weeks after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
It broadened the government 's power by making it easier to obtain surveillance and search warrants .
Civil rights advocates , some Republican lawmakers and many Democrats have criticized the law , saying it is being used to violate peoples ' constitutional rights .
Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of natural resources , including petroleum , natural gas , fish , and seals .
British sprinter Dwain Chambers and his lawyers have appeared in London 's High Court seeking a temporary injunction against his lifetime Olympic doping ban .
In a preliminary hearing on his appeal Wednesday , Chambers challenged the British Olympic Association bylaw that bans athletes with doping violations from all future Games .
His case will be heard next Wednesday .
The 30-year-old Chambers received a two-year suspension for taking the designer steroid THG ( tetrahydrogestrinone ) in 2003 .
If Chambers wins his hearing next week , the judge will issue an injunction to let him compete next month at the Beijing Olympics .
But he must still qualify for the team by finishing either first or second in the 100-meters at Britain 's Olympic trials this weekend .
A full hearing on his challenge against the BOA rule is expected to be held by next March .
Chinese authorities are reported to have detained at least 60 people , believed to be North Korean asylum seekers , who tried to enter the South Korean consulate in Beijing .
South Korean and Chinese media report the group was detained Tuesday as it tried to enter the consulate .
A South Korean activist group - The Democracy Network Against North Korean Gulag - is quoted as saying two of those detained were activists who helped North Korean asylum seekers in China .
Tuesday , China criticized foreign embassies and diplomatic missions for giving shelter to North Korean asylum-seekers .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into foreign embassies and consulates in China in recent years .
Pakistan 's Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh is scheduled to join urgent economic talks at the International Monetary Fund in Washington Wednesday , as his nation copes with the aftermath of devastating floods .
The director of the IMF 's Middle East and Central Asia Department , Masood Ahmed , says flood damage is hurting Pakistan 's tax revenue , just as relief efforts are drastically raising expenses and the nation faces " massive " reconstruction costs .
Pakistan already was working to pay back an $ 11 billion loan from the IMF that was helping the nation cope with the global economic crisis .
In return for the loan , Pakistan had promised to tighten economic policies and cut expenses .
The IMF 's Masood says those budget targets will have to be revisited .
But he adds that the crisis is still unfolding , making it difficult to assess the economic picture .
Argentina 's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have held talks in Moscow focusing on trade and economic relations .
Mr. Putin Tuesday praised the economic ties between the two countries as he welcomed the Argentine leader .
He said the two countries could cooperate in atomic energy , space and high-technology .
The Argentine leader expressed support for easing visa restrictions between the two countries .
President Fernandez is heading a delegation of some 100 Argentine business leaders during her two-day visit .
The Argentine leader is to meet with Russian President Dmitri Medvedev on Wednesday .
Officials of the two countries will sign a statement on strategic partnership and a number of other documents on bilateral cooperation .
This is the first visit to Russia by an Argentine leader in 10 years .
Following its heyday as a global maritime power during the 15th and 16th centuries , Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake , occupation during the Napoleonic Wars , and the independence of its wealthiest colony of Brazil in 1822 .
A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy ; for most of the next six decades , repressive governments ran the country .
In 1974 , a left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms .
The following year , Portugal granted independence to all of its African colonies .
Portugal is a founding member of NATO and entered the EC ( now the EU ) in 1986 .
In January 2011 , Portugal assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
The family of American journalist Jill Carroll has issued another public appeal for her release , days before a deadline set by her kidnappers in Iraq .
Jill Carroll 's family made the appeal Tuesday in a statement released by the press freedom group , Reporters Without Borders .
The journalist 's father , Jim Carroll , said his daughter and thousands of other reporters try to bring truth to the world every day , and he said that is especially important in Iraq right now .
The family also appealed for the release of two Iraqi journalists held hostage , Reem Zeid and Marwan Khazaal .
Jill Carroll was reporting for the Christian Science Monitor when she was kidnapped January seventh .
The militants holding her hostage have demanded that all women in prison in Iraq be freed .
They have threatened to kill her unless their demands are met by February 26 .
A glacial lake in southern Chile suddenly disappeared this week in a phenomenon that scientists are attributing to global warming .
Scientists say higher than normal temperatures caused the Colonia glacier to melt into nearby Cachet Lake .
The melting ice filled the lake and put tremendous pressure on it , causing the water to eventually burrow a tunnel through the glacier .
On April 6 , the tunnel , which extended at least five kilometers , reached nearby Baker River and emptied the lake waters into it .
Glacier scientist Gino Casassa said global warming is responsible for the unusually warm weather that caused the glacial melting .
United Nations officials in Kosovo say an international police officer was killed when a U.N. vehicle exploded Thursday in the town of Prizren .
Officials declined to give the name and the nationality of the victim .
They said an explosive device probably caused the blast , but said authorities are still investigating .
U.N. police and NATO-led peacekeepers took over security duties in Kosovo in 1999 , when the Serbian province became an international protectorate .
A former head of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards says he will run for president , posing a conservative challenge to incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Mohsen Rezai has criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad 's handling of the economy , which suffers from inflation and depressed revenues due to the fall in oil prices .
Rezai is also critical of Iran 's two main political factions , the moderate Reformists and the conservative Principlists , and has floated the idea of a coalition government uniting the two .
Candidates must register for the poll in early May .
Elections are set for June 12 .
A group of U.S. astronomers say there is a chance an asteroid could hit the planet Mars by the end of next month .
Stargazers in Arizona discovered a 50-meter wide asteroid in November that was designated " 2007 WD5 . "
Astronomers at the U.S. space agency NASA 's Near-Earth Object Office are tracking the object and say it may pass within 48,000 kilometers of Mars by January 30 .
The astronomers say there is a one-in-75 chance the asteroid will strike the planet on that day .
The asteroid is compared to a similar object that struck Siberia in 1908 with the energy of a three-megaton bomb and destroyed tens of millions of trees .
NASA officials say if the asteroid does hit Mars , it will do so near the location of its Opportunity rover , which has been exploring the Martian surface for three years .
Police in France say urban violence has fallen to what they call normal levels after three weeks of some of the country 's worst civil unrest in decades .
Police said about 100 vehicles were torched across the country on Wednesday night , which they said was the nightly average prior to the riots .
At the peak of the unrest , rioters of mostly North African origin burned more than 1,000 vehicles each night .
Police are still deployed in significant numbers , and a state of emergency remains in place .
The violence began late last month when two teenagers of North African origin accidentally electrocuted themselves while hiding from police in a power station near Paris .
France 's government has promised to tackle what it says are the real causes of the violence , including unemployment and racism .
Chinese state media say at least 11 miners are dead and three are missing after a gas explosion at a coal mine in northern China .
The official Xinhua news agency says 16 miners were working in the Xingguang Coal Industry Co. mine in Shanxi province at the time of the blast on Monday .
Xinhua says rescuers have found two workers alive and recovered 11 bodies .
It says they are searching for three missing miners .
China 's mining industry is the world 's deadliest .
China says 3,200 miners died in accidents last year .
Government figures show that almost 80 percent of China 's estimated 16,000 mines are illegal .
U.S. officials have strongly challenged a report that the United States is carrying out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
The U.S. Defense Department , in a statement Monday , said the article is " so riddled with errors of fundamental fact " that it has no credibility .
The story in The New Yorker magazine says the Bush administration has sent secret commando teams into Iran to pick out nuclear , chemical and missile sites that could be destroyed by airstrikes and commando raids .
The article was written by veteran journalist Seymour Hersh , who exposed the abuse of Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison last year .
Mr. Hersh cites a former high-level intelligence official and a U.S. government consultant as sources for the story .
White House Communications Director Dan Bartlett said Mr. Hersh 's story is " riddled with inaccuracies " with some conclusions not based on fact .
Thousands of Palestinian hard-liners in the Gaza Strip have staged protests against U.S. President George Bush , as the president visits Israel .
Supporters of the militant group , Hamas , chanted " Death to America " and burned U.S. and Israeli flags .
Others brandished signs depicting Mr. Bush as a vampire drinking Muslim blood .
